
    ----CITATION----
        Williams, Henry Llewellyn, (1842-). L'Africaine, or, The Maid of Madagascar .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8313
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               L'AFRICAINE. 
             
            
                
             
          
          
             
             
               L' AFRICAINE. 
               OR, THE MAID OF MADAGASCAR. 
               ADAPTED FROM "THE LAW OF JAVA," BY G. COLMAN, THE YOUNGER "L'AFRICAINE," BY EUGENE SCRIBE, AND THE ITALIAN VERSION OF THE LATTER WORK BY SANTA MANGIO, 
             
            BY HENRY L. WILLIAMS, JR.
             
            
               NEW-YORK: 
               ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER,  
                     NO. 13 FRANKFORT STREET. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1866, BY ROBERT M. DEWITT, In the Clerk's Office, of the United States District Court for the Southern District of the State of New York. 
          
       
      
         
            L'Africaine, or, The maid of Madagascar 
             
                
               L' AFRICAINE. 
                
                  TO MAX MARETZEK, ESQ., 
                  THESE pages, bearing the name of one of the standards in his Managerial Triumphs, are respectfully dedicated. 
                  A life devotion to the Musical Art in America, with the just sway of a magic wand calling back the glories of the past and the present pomp and charm of Song deserve a far higher proof of our gratefulness. 
                  Still, may the feeling that prompts this, make even this trifle of weight. 
                  
                     H. L. W., Jr. 
                     LONDON, December, '65.
                   
                
                
                  PREFATORY. 
                  THE age in which dawned the golden glory of the discovery of the New World was marked throughout Europe by a wonderful convulsion in the minds of men. 
                  The most extravagant ideas filled the breasts of even the most enlightened individuals. 
                  Sage statesmen and wise bishops gave themselves up to the most sanguine and visionary anticipations. The glowing recitals of Columbus and his companions were exaggerated an hundred fold as they spread like wild-fire over the christian world. 
                  Where the first discoverers had described silver and golden vessels as being used in the worship of the Indians' Gods-the popular belief saw these precious metals so abundant as to be used in utensils for common domestic purposes. 
                  Not alone were the thrones supposed to be erected of ivory and gold and gems, but the very stools of the people were thought to be fabricated of those priceless materials. 
                  But while the first voyagers had described in gorgeous colors all the splendors of the barbaric courts, and the prodigal luxuriance of nature in the "New Indies"-they had not failed to relate the terrible tempests that had battled with their staunch little barks, and tried in vain to baffle them in their quest of fortune. 
                  It was in such a time that the Portuguese-then one of the most enterprising and daring of maratime nations-sought to compete with, if not excel their neighbors, the Spaniards, in discovering strange countries. These projects held out to the sovereign the hope of extended sway-to the church the hope of new converts-to the people the prospect of vast wealth to be suddenly and comparatively easily acquired. 
                   
                  But the enterprising and vigorous portion of the nation had to struggle with the "conservatives" of that day. Men who were so bigoted and enthralled by the chains of custom that they feared every "new thing," and saw only perils, expenses and disasters in every attempt to enlarge the sphere of national greatness and glory. 
                  This is the epoch chosen by the great MEYERBEER for the time of his wonderful opera, and in this age he found that extraordinary variety of incidents, and contrasts of races and ideas so favorable for the display of his great and manifold genius. That he has produced a grand work has been decided by the universal plaudits of the greatest capitals of the civilized world. He has immortalized himself, and left us only to regret that the evergreen laurels can alone be wreathed around his bust. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  THE MOURNING MISTRESS.-THE EVIL NEWS.-THE MYSTERIOUS INTRUDER.-THE SUMMONS. 
                  Lisbon, heroine of earthquake memory, lies in a fertile plain, which is watered by the Tagus, and enclosed by mountains. This plain is covered with fields and gardens; many walnut-trees of large growth are sprinkled over it; while the lower slopes of the hills are fringed with the vine and the olive. 
                  The mountains on the eastern side of the river sweep upwards in craggy peaks of great height and most picturesque form, while their skirts and the plain below are dotted with white towns and villages. In short, the neighbourhood would form even in a northern atmosphere a scene of great beauty; but under a Portuguese sky it is indeed a lovely landscape; for in those southern regions the clearness of the atmosphere, and the rich tints which deck the scene are not to be described. 
                  The view is always of immense extent; while every distant tower or rocky peak is seen clearly defined as in some exquisite painting. 
                  The sun blazes the whole summer long in a cloudless sky of the deepest blue, and at his rising and setting lights up the landscape with a gorgeous colouring to which no painter could do justice. 
                  True it is that the land is dificient in foliage and water; but the hues of her mountains make amends for that deficiency, and wherever verdure is found it springs up with a tropical luxuriance. The banks of every river are either enamelled with a rich growth of trees, shrubs, and wild flowers, or they are decked with crops whose surpassing beauty attests the richness of the soil. 
                  In all of the domain of John the Second of Portugal, not a noble possessed a mansion grander, or richer than Don Diego de la Stremadura, member of the Royal Council, and lord of several seigneuries. 
                  This castle of his, called the "Jacara," from the manor having been originally obtained for a mere song, as the saying is, stood at some distance from the capital. 
                  Into a room of it, the "lady's room," now Diego's daughters, as he was a widower, we proceed. 
                  The apartment was well and comfortably furnished, in the style becoming a wealthy retreat; and amid all the tokens of grave occupations with which it abounded, might be traced symptoms of lighter and more literary tastes. Books and scrolls were scattered about in all directions, musical instruments, among which the cithera shone conspicuous, occupied many a place; and what gave a peculiar air of elegance to this disorder, was the quantity of rare and fragrant flowers which, either in glasses, or growing in vases, or tied in bouquets, met the eye at every turn. 
                  It was dusk of the autumn evening. 
                  Two large silver candlesticks were on a buffet, and a lamp hung over the praying-desk. None were lit. 
                  In the high, wide chimney-place, a fire had almost gone out, thus emitting very little radiance. 
                  The room had altogether a gloomy aspect, nor was its gloom relieved by the attitude of its inmate; she sat in an old-fashioned arm chair, leaning her head upon her hand, gazing abstractly upon the dusky burning embers, and as the little flickering flame rose and fell, and the transient beams glanced, one could see that her hair was dark, and hung in ringlets, somewhat neglected, down her shoulders, and as a partial light would break forth, there could be perceived something that glistened on her cheek, it might have been a tear-it was very like one, for when the next gleam came it was lower down, and when the next came it was gone; and again, when a fourth had come, there was another something that came and glistened and went-yes, Inez de la Stremadura was weeping, and weeping bitterly, too. 
                  Tears were not unknown in those days, even to the highest in the state, who should have been happy. 
                  The moon, that was not risen yet, was the sole beholder of the fits of frenzy which would seize upon her when none were nigh-in the silence of night-in the solitude and repose of noon. She would sometimes call aloud with wailing accents on a name, or remain for hours gazing on the Tagus, which rolled beneath her window. 
                  Her distress had grown so nearly uncontrollable, that her maid had penetrated it easily. She had become her confidant, faithfuller than one of Inez's own station might have been. 
                  "It is late," said the girl, at last, lifting her head. "But what use of retiring when such visions torment one in every dream. A star that I love, sinks in the green sea, or else its broad expanse rolls so immensely between." 
                  Her eyes, wherever they alighted on the wall, saw the "spotted ounce," on a silver bar, the emblem of her family, spitefully glowering in the twilight. 
                  "He is noble, nevertheless," sighed she. "Noble by birth, and far nobler by deed, than many of the titled." 
                  She took up a scroll from the table. It was too dark to read, but, she knew of its purport. 
                  "Rumor says, that Bartholomew Diaz, the brave and hardy voyager has been cast by a fearful tempest upon an ironbound coast, against which perished his vessels. The sea that he had so often ridden upon to conquest, rolls over him, over his gallant followers, over--" 
                  Here she spoke to herself. 
                  "Over the young lieutenant, Vasco de Gama, a youth," said Inez, proudly, "who, scorned by my father, will one day be great. For me, for my poor hand, he dared the wave." 
                  She had let her head fall, but suddenly she raised it again, and by a sudden jet of the firelight, its noble profile was gilded. Her eyes shone far more brightly. 
                  "No! he is not dead! He was not made for a miserable present alone. Whether I may glory to be his, or not, he is to have a bountiful future! He may be only captive-yes, only captive to some wild islanders. His courage and his skill would relieve him from Gordian bands." 
                  She rose, and flinging her long train, detached from her robe, upon the floor, walked up and down the room with unhampered stride. 
                  It was like a lioness, confined only in a park, but, still confined. 
                  "I'll hope," said she, "spite of all. He hopes for me, mauger my family; shan't I equal him in that? I will! But his proud spirit is happier than mine! He is not called upon to lie and dissemble like I am." 
                  Of a sudden she started. She was at one of the tall narrow windows. 
                  "Oh! what a fool am I," murmured she, her hand on her leaping heart. "I fancied I heard again his voice as under my balcony of Lisbon in those blessed days. I never have forgotten that song." 
                  She caught up the silk shoulder-band of her cithera, reclined on a cushion, and recalling the memory, very gently murmured: 
                         
                           "Farewell, ye shores of Tagus fair! 
                           My only love, farewell! 
                           God shield thee, darling, ever dear, 
                           How dear no words may tell. 
                           But thee and country do I mourn; 
                           My prayers to both from night to dawn, 
                           And sad is my farewell! 
                           Ye playful zephyrs waft my sighs 
                           To my fair queen above. 
                           'Tis at her feet the gallant die-- 
                           -No sea's a grave for love!" 
                        
                     
                   
                  A voice, in a low tone, but with an accent too manly for hers, echoed the refrain. 
                  She looked around the chamber-no one was there. The clock of the tower just then struck the three quarters after nine; she thought she had been deceived, that the noise she heard was but the warning tick, and she passed her hand across her forehead. 
                  "How I start and tremble at the slightest sound!" she gasped; "It was not always thus. Shame on those who fill me with such miserable fear!" 
                  Again a sound! It came from the window over-looking the river. 
                  It's distinctness made Inez absolutely leap. 
                  She could not see a face pressed close against one of the transparent pieces of glass in the stained window, from the iron balcony without. 
                  But the second time, the sound had produced an entirely different effect upon the nerves of the lady, and she exclaimed aloud in rage, as she turned fiercely round: 
                  "What!-am I to be thus persecuted? Have I spies upon my very thoughts? Is the surveillance, to which I am subjected, extended to my solitary hours? Ha! by Heaven! I will know the coward!" 
                  When, first, the young girl's affection for the poor scion of a good house, Vasco de Gama, had been discovered, she had indeed been enmeshed in a complete net of truly Spanish precautions. 
                  Of late, her father had been harsh to her because Inez had displayed no particular kindness to his favorite friend, one Don Pedro Usciara, no less a dignitary than the President of the Royal Council. 
                  Hence, fearing an outbreak from his daughter, who was of imperious disposition, the spy-system might be in all likelihood adopted anew. 
                  On Inez looking up, her keen glance pierced a white glass lozenge, and she plainly caught the sight of two human hands grasping the iron-work of the balcony. It was evident a man had been seeking to gain admittance into her chamber and, having failed, was descending without. Not for an instant did the lady feel the puerile terror which might have seemed most natural in such a case as this. It was indignation alone which moved her, and she sprang towards the window, holding by the wall to assist her eager steps. 
                  "Now, this is too bad!" Inez almost shrieked forth, as she flung back the casement with violence. "Am I thus to have watchers set over me in my privacy, so that even my solitary complaining may be reported to those who will know well how to remember and to punish? Who is there?" she called, in a loud and angry voice, as she seized a corner of a cloak which had not yet disappeared beyond the railings. 
                  The answer made her reel back into the chamber with a cry of terror, as she thought that annihilation was at hand. 
                  "Hope!" said a voice. 
                  A sunburnt face, its features undistinguishable through the darkness, appeared at the edge of the wreathed iron. 
                  Only a man of great daring would even have climbed up by the carved griffins and cornices to that risky eminence. 
                  The river flowed deep at the very edge of the castle walls. 
                  Inez saw, very dimly, the glistening of the froth against the bows of a little boat that remained stationary, despite the current. 
                  "Oh, you--" 
                  "'Sh! 'No sea is a grave for Love!'" 
                  As if vanished, the form disappeared. 
                  Inez recoiled from the casement in stupor, and not to see the figure crawling downwards from ledge and sculptured bosses. 
                  When she sprang forward, and out on the balcony, she was too late. 
                  The muffled oars made no sound. But she could trace the disappearing boat by the waving of a scarf in it. 
                  "It must have been Vasco," said she, closing the window. "Only he would do that! But why did he not embrace me-one kiss-one word or two, of love." 
                  But when she reflected she loved the idol of her heart more and more. 
                  Three years before, when they had broken all etiquette and social laws, and met secretly, they were young enough to have that excuse. 
                  Inez felt more that the gentlemen had done well not to imperil her by a longer stay, at night, alone with her, in her apartment. 
                  "I-I pardon him," said she, then, half smiling. "But he ought to have said, when I should see him again." 
                  She thrust a splinter of wood among the ashes, till it burst into a flame, and by it lit a candle. 
                  She fell upon her knees at the desk and remained sometime in thankfulness. 
                  Soon after, she retired to her room, without ringing for her maid. 
                  Quite late in the evening, there was a tramp of horses on the city road. As the cavalcade approached the castle, the building began to gleam here and there with lights and the most of the household were mustered to receive the mighty and renowned master, returning from a private sitting with the king. 
                  When Don Diego, had entered the dining-hall, he refused meat or drink until they had brought Senora Ana, the tiring woman of Lady Inez to him. 
                  "My mistress is asleep," replied Ana to the lord's first question. 
                  "Bah! how provoking the women are!" growled Don Diego in deep vexation. "Well, it is a little late, and I am tired with the ride. You may do my bidding." 
                  "Yes, my lord," said the girl, a pert, bold one, the very ideal of a camerita. 
                  "Accquaint your mistress, this instant that our noble monarch, in his sovereign goodness, has deigned to choose for her future spouse--" 
                  "For my Lady Inez' future husband?" queried Ana, starting. 
                  "I said so, thou malapert. The king has selected the most noble Don Pedro, head of the Cabral family, Count of Harol, of Ecs and of Carjaval, President of the Royal Council--" 
                  "Yes, my lord, my lady knows the gentlemen," interrupted the maid, pretty sure that, let Don Diego alone, his catalogue of titles might be nearly inexhaustible. "Senor Don Pedro is the intended, I am to tell her?" 
                   
                  "Right. But stay!" 
                  Ana wheeled round on her high heels, like a well drilled halberdier. 
                  "My good girl," said Don Diego, in a less pompous, and somewhat confidential tone. "I will remember you to Don Pedro, as worthy of accompanying your lady, when she shall be his." 
                  "Oh, thank you, my lord." 
                  "One moment. I-I think you might incidentally remark that a vessel has arrived at Cadiz, bringing confirmation of the news of the total loss of Bartholomew Diaz' fleet." 
                  "Oh, my lord!" 
                  "For my part, I don't see what kings will be giving ships and money to blundering sailors that only discover countries when they are wrecked on them," growled Diaz. 
                  Ana, seeing that she could glean no more intelligence, hastened to her mistress's apartments. 
                  "Pretty news to tell her," muttered she. "I've a mind not to wake her to hear it." 
                  When she came to the room where Inez slept, she had to unlock the door by the key which, in right of her position, she carried at her girdle. 
                  "Ah! dear lady," said Ana to herself. "She is not up to-night ruining her eyes with tears and her brain with thoughts for a young gallant who ought to have run away with her, instead of going to sea alone." 
                  She approached the large bed, resembling a tent, hung about and walled about as it was with canopy, tapestry valance, curtains, and long fringe. 
                  "I don't approve of lovers," said the servant, "who always talk of the future, as if there were fifty Christmas-Days in a year." 
                  She opened the heavy curtains noiselessly. 
                  The long soft ray from her lamp, lay along the tasselled pillow, scarcely sinking beneath the young girl's head. 
                  "There's a beauty for you," said Ana, jestingly, as she pretended to speak to a ferocious Saracen, worked with black, red and yellow, on the hangings. 
                  Inez was fast asleep. 
                  The rich light, flittering through the shadow, just suited the cast of loveliness that was hers. 
                  She was of a brown complexion, with that living warmth to the tint that makes the brunette irresistible. 
                  Her countenance was oval, but a little too full of contour to be coldly classical. 
                  Her hair, unbound, strayed about her head as it pleased, here in black masses, there in several jetty lines, each hair with a curl of its own. 
                  As the maid gazed, fascinated, Inez parted her lips to murmur a few words so softly that the overlooker had to lean forward to catch the sense, much more to gain the faint words. 
                  "I knew you would come, darling," said the sleeper. 
                  The listener drew back, and let the curtains close. 
                  "Poor, dear lady," said she, "she's dreaming of the sailor. Well, the old lord may toss me over the parapet, but I won't say a word of his news till morning!" 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  THE COUNCIL CHAMBER.-THE SURVIVOR OF THE WRECK.-THE APPEAL. 
                  AMONG the many glories of grand structures of the early ages, the Royal Palace, at Lisbon, had claims and splendours of its own, placing it in the first class of such buildings. The design of the facade was massive and grand, and though the details are ornate almost to licentiousness-witness the fringed arches to the three portals, and the band of pierced fleur-de-lis balustrades-the masses are not frittered away, nor the great outlines hidden as they are, I submit, by such cage work which covers the face of many a graver edifice. Admirable, too, is the building within. The grandeur of the pillars and shafts, the finish of the smallest leaf of stone or gorgon of oak, the pure hues of the stained glass of finest quality, gave it almost an Oriental lustre. 
                  Towards the largest hall in the eastern wing, set apart for the ministers to meet, two noblemen were proceeding. 
                  The respectful manner in which the palace guard made way for them without a challenge, showed their eminence. 
                  The one, a grey beard, richly dressed in velvet and silk, was Don Diego de la Stremadura. 
                  The other, about thirty years of age, of dark visage even among the sunbrowned race, was of good appearance. His usual expression partook of the forbidding, however, and his smile seemed to be ever made by an effort and against his will. 
                  It was the President of the Royal Council, and favorite of the king. 
                  "Tell me frankly, Diego," said the prime minister, "how does your daughter receive the intelligence of the king's intention, beforehand, as I advised you to impart it." 
                  "Frankly, Don Pedro?" 
                  "As a father should speak to a son." 
                  "In truth, not too well; I told her of the glorious nuptials that were offered her. She spoke of a youth, a lieutenant in Diaz' expedition. I told her that his majesty willed it, and that I approved, while expressing my contempt for that poor offshoot of a poorer family." 
                  "That was scarcely sage, in dealing with a woman," muttered Don Pedro. 
                  "True, she fired up-she has her mother's spirit-and talked loudly of the youth's high daring--" 
                  "Which lured him to destruction," observed the other. 
                  "I wish I had thought of that," said the old man. "However, you have nothing to fear from the memory of a rival blotted out of existence by the storm." 
                  "Hish! the king is already in his seat," said the president. 
                  The two entered the council chamber by a side-door. 
                  At one end was the throne, with its rich canopy and dais. In its chair was King John, a morose, but intelligent-looking man. He wore his many ornaments like one who cared little for the trifles. 
                  Before him was the long table, covered with parchment and volumes. Around it were seated the several councillors, to the number of twelve or fifteen. Two of them were lords spiritually, bishops of wealthy sees. 
                  At the head of the table was a man not advanced in years or sufficiently striking in appearance to be very remarkable, yet he had a cunning look, and a mouth expressive of severity. 
                  It was Enrico Herreros, the Grand Inquisitor, the most dreaded of any person in the realm. 
                   
                  When Don Pedro and his companion had taken their seats, an usher proclaimed the commencement of the sitting. 
                  The guards kept the doors with renewed care. 
                  One of the bishops rose, and in a deep voice, exclaimed: 
                  "Thou whom the world worships, infuse peace into our minds; may Thy celestial rays be reflected by our deeds, may Thy immense mercy soften our hearts. Oh, Lord of Heaven, be our stay in life and our guide for evermore!" 
                  The bustle of arranging papers and settling comfortably into seats, succeeded. 
                  Amid silence, the king slowly rose. In the measured tone usual to him, whether he asked for money to carry on a war, or announced a defeat or a victory, declared this man should rise a richer, that fall a headless man, he said: 
                  "My lords of church and state. The first duty of a monarch is to prove how high he sets the value of the faithful servitor of the realm." 
                  All were doubly eager. Don Pedro and his future father-in-law were alone in the secret. 
                  "And," resumed the king, "it is our pleasure that the only daughter of our dear Lord of the Stremadura should be espoused, as one we especially love to, our esteemed Don Pedro Usciara." 
                  The expectant faces fell for a moment, but took an affected congratulatory smile to greet the fortunate president. 
                  Some time passed in Don Pedro's expressions of gratitude. At length he rose, for the business for which the meeting had been convoked. 
                  "My lords," said he, "it is well known to you that Columbus revealed to our deadly rival, the haughty Spaniard, a new world with innumerable treasures. The great John, second of the name, our sovereign lord and ruler, has also wished to emblazon our native land in historic pages." 
                  "Or bring about his ruin," muttered the grand inquisitor. 
                  He was of the stamp of the condemners of Galileo, this priest. 
                  "Bartholomew Diaz, a worthy and a hardy Portuguese," proceeded the president, "full of ardor for the ocean life, brought back, you are aware, ample proof of the existence of a new road to the riches of the Indies." 
                  "We, my lords, sure that the day will come to prove our foresight," interrupted the king, "changed the name that honest Diaz gave to the headland, and it is now no more the Stormy Cape (el Cabo Tormentoso) but the Cape of Good Hope (Cabo de Bono Esperansa.) 
                  Pedro bowed. 
                  "Diaz," resumed he, "started on this new voyage of his, fully persuaded that by that dread promontory, his fondest hopes would centre in success." 
                  The grand inquisitor rose. 
                  "Your pardon," said he, "his hopes were rash and fatal. The news that a ship at Cadiz landed, tell us that his three ships were totally destroyed upon the savage coast." 
                  "Guarded by devils," said a bishop, "against Christian men, who would tempt Providence!" 
                  "At all events, his majesty," said Don Pedro, "summons us to give our opinions upon the future course." 
                  "In a word," said the king, "shall we not send out a new expedition to ascertain the brave navigator's fate. We may yet be in time to succor him." 
                  There was a long silence. 
                  The religious set were of one voice against spending money on tar, rope and planks when there were several abbeys yet to be endowed, and more than one bishop who had a poor nephew or son-in-law. 
                  In the midst of the discussion, a member of the assembly, who had been delayed, was ushered in. 
                   
                  He asked pardon for his tardiness, assuring the king that he had reason for it. 
                  "You are just in time, Don Alvaro," said the president. "What is your voice in the matter?" 
                  "Firstly," replied Alvaro, "our friends of holymother church should pray for the soul of Bartholomew Diaz. It has pleased heaven to end his days?" 
                  "Ha!" exclaimed the king. "Is there later news?" 
                  "Yes, sire. There is a sailor waiting in the ante-chamber. He is the sole survivor of the disastrous tempest. He craves the honor of appearing before your majesty, as recompense for having been victor in the strife that he had with the elements." 
                  "Bid him enter, usher," cried Don Pedro. 
                  "The vessel," said Don Alvaro, "that picked up this lieutenant at sea, was an English caravel that put him ashore at Finistere." 
                  "Are the English on the African seas?" cried the king, with some animation. 
                  "It appears so by that, your majesty," returned Alvaro, taking his seat at the table. 
                  The man who entered was clad in a rough garb, over which was a sorry cloak. His hat he had flung down at the doorway, and he let his long black hair and untrimmed beard flow loose at will. 
                  He was a young man, and of bearing as easily noble as of countenance high and handsome. 
                  His face was scorched into a hue deeper than a Moor's by the sun. 
                  He bowed low to the King, and respectfully to the council. 
                  On seeing him, Don Diego leaned over the board to the president. 
                  "It is Vasco de Gama!" said he in much surprise. 
                  Pedro frowned 
                  "Speak, follower of an illustrious captain, for whom the nation will mourn," said King John. 
                  "Sire, and my noble lords," said the seaman in a tone of deep feeling, "I was lieutenant of the caravel the 'Palm-Carrier,' the captain's own ship. My name is Vasco de Gama. So perfect were the plans and the cares of Senor Diaz that for three months our voyage was almost like a butterfly's on a summer's breeze." 
                  "One moment, I pray," said the king, already recognising the worth in one so young and yet able to confront the assemblage like a prince. "You are fatigued. Usher, a stool, placed at my feet here, for the companion of valiant Diaz." 
                  Pedro's frown grew deeper. Diego gnawed at his under lip in vexation. 
                  Vasco bowed low, and took the seat with gracefulness. So properly did he carry himself that one did not perceive the incongruity of his weather-stained vestments with the golden-fringed velvet on which he sat. 
                  "Then, sire, as we drew near the Cape of Storms, on a Friday, began the assaults of the giant of the sea fabled to dwell there. The next day as we persevered, the tempest lifted mountains across our path. 
                  "But it was Sunday, the blessed anniversary of palm-carrying and hosannahs, which is marked on the calends as a day of rejoicing, and of singing to the Prince of Peace, that was destined to see the most dismal loss that ever befell the roll of honor. 
                  "Oh, sire, these eyes of mine have seen my chief and his followers, your majesty's most devoted, flung into the boiling surge, as the three good vessels broke upon the rocks. 
                  "Their dying throes were rendered all the keener, by their coming under the very shadow of that headland, which seems to touch the stormy clouds. 
                  "I woke upon the strand, strewn with my dead comrades and the twisted timbers. As for my revered commander, the sea had swallowed him. 
                   
                  "For days, I was doomed to climb the naked rocks alone, viewing the mighty ocean spread out on both hands. I trod the soil where none, in Europe born, had ever planted foot before. And how often, as I wandered over pathless wastes, by raging torrents, through dreary thickets--" 
                  "How often, luckless exile, you must have cursed them," said Don Alvaro, deeply interested. 
                  "Not so," rejoined Vasco, enthusiastically. 
                  "Not so! For oft I vowed that your gracions majesty, sire, should own the land beyond. Belief in such goodness of God, inspired me. I never despaired of such a boon, as your present condescension?" 
                  King John smiled right pleasantly, a rare visitor to his grave face. 
                  "To be brief," said the lieutenant, "I ventured on a raft one time of calm, I drifted many a league. When I touched land at last, I had still many leagues of hostile country to traverse. Finally, I was taken prisoner and sold into Mauritania. But, half a year ago, I and some other Portuguese conspired and fled from the Moor. My first act was to beg audience of your majesty. Now, let me thank him for kind attention." 
                  He rose and turned to Don Alvaro. 
                  "And to my lord Senor Don Alvaro, my thanks as well." 
                  "This is all," said the king. 
                  "Not all, sire," replied Vasco. 
                  He drew an oilskin packet from his bosom, suspended round his neck. 
                  "This chart I have traced out from Diaz' own hints and my own observations. Consult it, I pray your majesty, and your wise councillors. If I may be entrusted with a ship, anything that will carry brave hearts that I can muster, I undertake to pass the dreaded rocks. 
                  The page on the left hand of the king received the scroll. 
                  "I promise the monarch increased sway and treasure, the merchant new sources of wealth, the priest a people to teach-the empire of the seas, and colonies to become sister states to Portugal!" concluded Vasco loftily. 
                  The grand inquisitor lifted his cunning eyes. 
                  "And, by the bye, young man, what share do you claim?" asked he. 
                  "I?" said the youth. "I? Not a grain of gold, not a hand's breadth of land, not a drop of water! Enough for me if at the cost of life, I win the prize, as I shall win! Immortality will circle round my name!" 
                  All was silence. 
                  The king, never accustomed to rush into any breach fresh made, leaned one arm on the lion-head side of his chair, and rested his chin on the hollow of his hand. 
                  The councillors whispered together. 
                  The younger men, with Don Alvaro at their head seemed to be favorable. 
                  Pedro was reserved. 
                  The bishops and the grand inquisitor laid their heads together, gloomy as cardinals in the conclave. 
                  "Great sirs," said Vasco, "for our dear liege's sake, for native land itself, vouchsafe an answer to my prayer. One poor ship--I will find men to man it, and merchants to fit it out at their expense!" 
                  "What do you think of this man?" inquired the grand inquisitor of Don Pedro. 
                  "I fear me," replied he meaningly, "that the sun of the far-off region has turned the wits of the poor youth out of his head! I can only feel pity for one who joins great apparant courage to so much madness!" 
                  "Like myself," said Don Diego. "No one of serious mind, I think, can listen to such rash designs." 
                  On the other hand, Don Alvaro had haranged his little junta. 
                  "To confess the truth," said he, "the fellow, when he first came to me this morning, made my heart throb within me. It is not alone because I believe he is distantly connected with my family of Bermeo, but I beg you to do his prayer justice for our country's honor. I'm right sure that he will succeed." 
                  To break the half silence in which the deliberations had left him, Vasco lifted his voice again, at a hint from Alvaro. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  THE SLAVES.-THE FATE OF GENIUS.-THE BONDAGE OF A KING. 
                  "I entreat a word further," said the lieutenant. "I bring with me from Algiers, a proof that my errand would be no utterly baseless one." 
                  "What is that?" inquired the king. 
                  "Sire, I persuaded my companions in captivity, in reward for my great endeavours in their behalf, to bring off two slaves of an unknown race, in our escape. They wait without." 
                  "If this be so," said the grand inquisitor, prompted by the president, "what do you assert from it?" 
                  "A couple of a race never heard of before, prove its existence. They never drew the hot breath of Africa's sun, nor do they come from the Western World that the Spaniard has overcome. But I beg you to judge for yourselves. Sire, you will see them?" 
                  The king nodded. 
                  "Let those two followers of this person," ordered Don Pedro, of the usher, "be brought before us." 
                  In a few seconds, the ushers returned with their charges. 
                  The male was a tall Hindoo, slightly built, but of good proportions, and full of that steel-muscle, the tiger-like delicacy that raises them often to the level of the gigantic Northerner. He was but scantily arrayed, but he wore the coarse cloth with the air of the savage chief, that he probably was. 
                  His companion of the same warm hue, of the same soft and slight outlines, was a most beautiful girl, or woman, rather, for though little over sixteen, she was in all respects, full formed. 
                  She had drawn the end of her rough serge mantle over her head and face though undauntedly gazing around, with her black and brightly glittering eyes. 
                  At a sign from Vasco, she appeared to sigh faintly, and despite the resistance of her partner, let the folds fall from her face. 
                  The younger nobles started in admiration, at the view of her delicately tempting features. 
                  "They understand Portuguese," said Vasco. "I did my best to teach them as we crossed the sea." 
                  "Slaves!" said Don Pedro, harshly, "draw nearer! Of what country are you?" 
                  The man returned the president's look with one of fierce refusal. 
                  The woman closed her lips tightly, and made a haughty gesture. 
                  "Slave, will you not answer," cried Don Pedro. 
                  The Indian smiled scornfully. 
                  "You have a master here," said he, slowly. "He should have spoken to us first. He has not. You can have not a word from me." 
                  "Woman, be it yours, the permission to speak," went on the president. 
                  Vasco looked at the Indian girl, appealingly. 
                  "We were in a canoe," said she, "which was blown from our native shore. When we were still on the open sea-so large around us! a strange bark came in sight. We were free as the birds that sought our flesh the night before-we trod the deck of the saving craft, dead to freedom, ever after!" 
                  There was much to affect the heart in her simple, but pathetic story so told. "I pray, my liege, and you, good lords," said Vasco, "to note the color and the contour of their features. The whole appearance bespeaks a people till now unknown." 
                  "True," said Don Alvaro. "Who can doubt?" 
                  While the councillors resumed their debate, Vasco spoke to his captives. 
                  "Selika," said he to the woman, "I implore you to answer them." 
                  "Oh, Neluska," said the Indian to her companion, "I can resist no longer-it is he who beseeches me." 
                  "Oh, queen!" said the other, in the same language and with the same low voice that she had spoken, "preserve your oath inviolate. Although tyrant's boast may be that you are a prize of his, you are no less a queen, remember. By all the gods our land adores, by great Brahma himself, I conjure you not to betray your people!" 
                  "Silence, slaves!" cried Don Pedro. "Under our sovereign, I command I bid you now to reveal your country to the council." 
                  The woman glanced at Vasco. A prey to deep emotion, she was buried in thought. Then she recovered her proud look, and said evasively, 
                  "How can I answer? A slave is of the land, where is her master? 
                  "And you?" exclaimed Pedro, giving free course to his rage, without care what his silent monarch was imagining. 
                  Neluska succeeded in restraining the rage that filled him. 
                  "Man of the red mantle and golden chains," replied he in a bitter voice, "when you have bought an ox for the plough or mill, if he be large and strong enough to bear the yoke, do you ask whence he came? Why, therefore, do you wish to know as much of the man, who is a mere beast of burden to you." 
                  "Unconquerable pride," muttered Vasco de Gama. "My liege, and good lords, your efforts will be all in vain. You may rack them, and yet they will not speak. Nevertheless, enough is known. All tends to prove that they were not in Africa born, but in some clime from which, as the woman says, some accident removed them. That place, no matter how remote, I offer to discover if your majesty will but deign to grant the means." 
                  King John rose. 
                  "My lords," said he, "I will withdraw. You can act for me as your good sense directs. The case requires more time and study than the affairs of more ordinary import that engage me." 
                  Vasco evinced his disappointment. Unfathomable as the monarch's mind was, towards the adventurers he had been like another Alfonso. 
                  "You will hear what more this brave and true servant has to say," went on the king. "I rely upon your decision being one well-weighed and most conducive to the welfare of the kingdom. 
                  This was a complete windfall to the president and Don Diego. 
                  The withdrawal of the monarch was performed with all the ceremonials in vogue. 
                  A little billet that a page had brought him in the early part of the meeting, might have led to his retirement. Even then, there were Fair Gabrielles and La Vallieres at courts. 
                  The sailor and his captives were made to stand without until the deliberation should be completed. 
                  During it, Don Alvaro and his friends were completely unavailing against the parties of the grand inquisitor and Don Pedro. 
                  The old went for Diego, the churchman for the inquisitor, the courtiers for the royal favorite. 
                   
                  Finally, the lieutenant was summoned before the board again. 
                  "The sovereign council," said Don Pedro, speaking for all, "in virtue of the royal power, do now refuse you, Vasco de Gama, your request. It will be setting a bad precedent to draw one maravedi from the treasury to be lost in your senseless projects." 
                  Vasco repeated the last two words with passion. As the exclamation burst from him, he seemed to rise in height and become the ruling figure in the Gothic hall. 
                  "You call such plans senseless," said he, with flashing eyes. "Thus was the great Columbus spurned by his native land, and by this same court, remember! The wise of those days treated the immortal Genoese as a madman." 
                  "Rash youth!" cried Diego, "be silent!" 
                  "Forbear!" said the inquisitor. 
                  "No!" replied the lieutenant. "I will speak! If your shameful words are final--then mine is the place to pronounce the judgment of posterity on you for so wronging your country. The loss will recoil on it! may you live, oh, judges blind and partial, to see what you have scorned blazed in its proper colors." 
                  "His life should pay for such audacity!" said Don Pedro. "Usher, the guards!" 
                  Stay!" interposed Don Alvaro, springing to the door. "Rather extend him pardon for so natural a fault!" 
                  "Imprisonment for life his insolence richly merits," said the grand inquisitor. 
                  "Oh, my lords," cried Don Alvaro. "The man is young-think how he has suffered while we remained at home in ease, upon the steady ground, a neighbor at the call, our friends around. He on the lonely sea, he in a savage land, he in the Moorish power!" 
                  "Thanks, noble defender!" said Vasco. "But do not check their wrath, let them be satiated with my flesh!" 
                  He was past governing now. The feeling that supports the martyr was glowing within him. 
                  "Oh, ye who hate the light!" said he, "and would forever chain her in dark some cell, beware the Dawn! Woe to you!" 
                  Here he dashed away an usher's hand that had ventured to seize his arm. 
                  "Woe to you when the radiance breaks forth in spite of you!" 
                  The guards overpowered him. 
                  "Impious wretch!" said the bishop and Herreros in chorus. 
                  "Insolent knave!" said Don Pedro. "Your fate is in our hands, and your sentence we pronounce. To indicate the unassailable majesty of right and honor, and to punish your insult against heaven, you are committed to the prison of the Holy Inquisition, until further orders are delivered. Captain of the guard, here is your warrant." 
                  The president passed the scroll to his secretary to be sealed. 
                  "In vain you accuse me of iniquity and rebellion," said Vasco, struggling. "I appeal to the hereafter from your injustice!" cried he nobly. "The future and the country are ample to avenge me!" 
                  "Remove him." 
                  "You cannot remove hope, that is God, from my dungeon, murderers-full of envy and her malicious train!" 
                  "Anathema!" cried the grand inquisitor. 
                  Vasco resisted no more, and he was hurried away. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                  THE DUNGEON.-THE CHILD OF THE SUN.-THE ASSASSIN. 
                  THE only light in the dungeon of Vasco de Gama was a miserable hanging lamp. 
                  By it one could read on the wall the carvings of former tenants. 
                  Here in rough-hewn letters beneath a rude sketch of a house, perhaps the author's home: 
                         
                           Will none the mournful history hear 
                           To my sweet mother-that I lie 
                           Bound in a gloomy dungeon here, 
                           Where in oppression's arms I die? 
                        
                     
                   
                  Or this extempore couplet sung by some prisoner on leaving his melancholy abode. 
                         
                           Farewell! and now-thou living grave, 
                           Prison and cell be far removed! 
                           Where chilling fear subdues the brave, 
                           And friends forget the friends they loved. 
                        
                     
                   
                  In a corner was a heap of rubbish, rags of old clothes, sweepings, and fragments of a water-jug, left carelessly as if the inquisition, who had buried the man ten fathoms under ground, laughed at the idea of an escape, even by suicide. 
                  The side-wall upon which the cresset's gleams faintly rested, was covered with a series of scratched lines which only the expert could have unravelled as a geographical chart. Besides the outlines of land and water, various courses were laid down, all tending in one direction. Otherwise, the apartment had a gloomy and tomb-like appearance, was almost totally empty, and, saving for a huge cross stuck by the wall, from which hung a ghastly dying Christ (who, by the flickering glare of the fire in the distance, seemed still to writhe in the pangs of mortal agony), and a clasped book, with the rude convenience of a few stumps of log to serve as bed and seat, was destitute of the slightest memorials of aught to minister to human comfort. 
                  The air was heavy and still. It crept through the murky cell with flagging wings, as if it feared to break the wizard muteness that was about. Not a gleam of light shone through the darkness, save where that pale cresset's feeble ray gave out a sickly flame; flickering against the wall, it but added fantastic horrors of its own to the too real terrors round. 
                  Benumbed by the atmosphere, the prisoner had sunk to sleep. His waist was bound by a leather belt, studded by heavy brass nails, all green and mouldy with age, and telling a fearful tale of chains and iron rings, and heavy bolts and galling manacles which made the heart ache to follow out in every sad chapter. 
                  He had not been tortured by rack or thumb-screw, but he had been made to go through wearisome indignity and investigation, which were mental torments quite as painful. 
                  All these examinations had gone on in a chamber, garnished with frightful furniture: chains encrusted with gore, and daggers rusting with red stains-whips, matted and torn with frequent use-fetters for the free hand, and the strong arm, and the swift foot-and tell-tale marks on the clayey floor, which here and there was moist and slippery with undried pools of human blood. 
                  How many truths crushed to that horrid earth, had never risen again! 
                  His confinement had now lasted quite ten months. 
                  Almost a year of the cage, when the sea-eagle was hourly pining for the foam and the illimitable waste. 
                   
                  The door of the cell opened. 
                  It was the Indian woman Selika who came in, with her light and lizard-like stealthy tread. She bore a small loaf in one hand. In the other, the water-jug. 
                  On seeing that the prisoner was in slumber, she almost held her breath in contemplating him. 
                  Her presence was due to Don Alvaro's interposition. 
                  King John, not wholly influenced by Pedro, had not consented that death or the extreme of cruelty should fall upon the navigator. 
                  Perchance, he might have quietly granted release to him, but Vasco, imprudent as such spirits are, had boldly declared that, if he should have his limbs freed, his first step would be from the country where his reception had been so ill. 
                  John had no particular fondness for seeing Spain or England profit by a Portuguese, and cast reproach on him. 
                  The confinement had indeed exhausted the frenzy with which Vasco had first received his doom. 
                  His repose showed the tranquility with which he bore it. 
                  Selika, depositing the pitcher on the floor and the bread over its mouth, sat down on a log beside the reclining man. 
                  For a time she watched him in complete silence, subduing her breath, as we have said. 
                  Finally her feelings found utterance in a song in her own tongue, a Bengalee lullaby that the Hindostanese in our own day hum over their dusky babes: 
                         
                           Lulled in my arms, the bright sun's child, 
                           Thou valiant in the tented field, 
                           Lulled in my arms, in peace enjoy 
                           Sweet slumber and repose. 
                           There's nought around but breathes of tranquil peace and love; 
                           The bright star shines 
                           In the pure sky above, 
                           The Ganges' bird its liquid note doth trill, 
                           Yes, in the night's dark bosom shrouded, 
                           Sleep thou, secure mid waving woods around, 
                           Lulled in my arms, thou bright sun's child, 
                           Sweet rest enjoy! 
                           Oh, come! Oh, come! 
                        
                     
                   
                  Far from suitable was the rude poem. The objects that it indicated were dazzling contrasts to the surroundings of the captive. 
                  Selika felt their influence overcoming her, and she ceased to sing. 
                  She thought of her own suffering. 
                  She had been first among a myriad; a look from her was life, a wave of her hand death, a smile happiness to a district, a frown laid a region waste. 
                  And at this hour, she was happy to be let bring the scanty meal to him who had snatched her from a Tunisian harem, it is true, but only because she was of utility towards his ambition. 
                  "Oh, stranger of the pale face and lofty brow," murmured she, "how is it the gods I worshipped ever let me be in enthralled in soul and body by you? Beside you, in such misery even, I scarcely remember my beautiful land. The palace of my fathers and the subjects who would have died for me, even the deities are less than nothing compared with you. Oh! I do love you! My heart's idol, I love." 
                  A sound, as of some steel-toothed rat gnawing at the wall, startled her. On her turning, the noise she made, though so slight, seemed to be the signal for it to vanish. 
                   
                  "Perhaps," sighed Selika, "It were better for me if this man's image were banished from my breast. Whenever he smiles and talks in his sleep, another name than mine is on his lips." 
                  The sound of scraping on the stone, was audible once more, but not to the Indian queen. 
                  She had risen. 
                  "He will not know it," said she, bending over Vasco. 
                  She was about to press her lips to the sleeper's forehead, when a sound, too loud not to be overheard, attracted her ears. 
                  One of the large stones in the wall, under the effigy of the crucified, was moving inwards and threatening to fall on the ground. 
                  "Ah!" exclaimed, Selika. "Neluska's cell is to the right. Can it be?" 
                  She slipped behind a pillar near Vasco, her dress causing the chains that depended from it to rattle. 
                  The loosened stone, held inside by a powerful hand, slowly descended towards the floor, on which it alighted with little noise. 
                  A dark face, on which the straying lamplight fell with a coppery gleam, appeared in the aperture thus formed. 
                  On seeing the interior untenanted, to all appearance (for thus it seemed from that point of view), the face assumed a smile and withdrew. 
                  "It is Neluska!" murmured the watcher, behind the column. "He is escaping from one cell to another only." 
                  A second stone, more quickly and easily followed the first. 
                  A third, and several more, having obeyed the same unseen impulse, an opening was left, after the half hour's labor, sufficiently large enough for a man's passage. 
                  It was Neluska that entered the cell with a serpent's gliding motion. 
                  The woman kept silence and her concealment. 
                  The Indian wore rings of iron at wrist, waist and ankle, but the connecting chains had been broken. 
                  He held in one hand a piece of metal, half the length of his arm. It was one of the two straight links which led from the feet to the middle in the complete sett of fetters. 
                  It formed an effectual tool and weapon, for, while it had been bent and one end formed into a handle, the other had been ground into a chisel's edge. 
                  As soon as the Indian saw that he had but exchanged one prison for another, and that his work had to be recommenced, he was dismayed. In surveying the cell, he perceived the sleeper. Accustomed as his eyes was to the dark, he easily distinguished the features. 
                  A new determination declared itself on his countenance, as Selika plainly saw. 
                  He approached the navigator, holding his weapon ready. 
                  "The outraged honor of my queen," muttered he, "demands his death--her honor and my hate!" 
                  Yet he hesitated to slay a sleeping man, even when that man was his rival. 
                  In the midst of his conflicting impulses, Selika revealed herself. 
                  "What would you do, Neluska," said she. "Is not this man a prisoner like ourselves." 
                  "He is a Christian," replied the Indian, "and I loathe the hateful race." 
                  "He saved us," from the Moor," said Selika. "And see, he is defenceless now." 
                  "He saved us," said the Indian. "Yes, to make us his slaves. Great kindness his, indeed. I am but as a bale of goods in his eyes, and slender thanks can I owe the thief." 
                  "Neluska," said the woman. "It was hard for him and his friends to escape alone, but he wished to save me from those lascivious Moors. And when with tearful eyes, I besought him not to part me from you, linked together as we have been by fate, he agreed that I should have your company. It is to him that I owe the consolation of your presence, and find in you some vestige of my beloved land. Had it not been for his consent, I should be friendless and lonely and sadder far than I am now." 
                  The Hindoo seemed to relent. 
                  "Oh, noble warrior," she proceeded with more hope, "I have seen your hand wielding an illustrious steel--you will not pierce a heart so generous?" 
                  "I have sworn it," cried Neluska, "it must be done! I abhor the snowy face!" 
                  "What? for no other reason?" 
                  "Perhaps I have," returned the man moodily. 
                  "Explain yourself." 
                  Neluska shook his head. 
                  "I may not." 
                  The woman's eyes took fire. 
                  "I command you!" said she. "I will it!" 
                  "Daughter of monarchs," said the Indian bowing, "to you all homage! I owe fidelity to you. No misfortune nor pains of slavery can affect your queenly majesty. But--" 
                  Here he gave the sleeper a look of profoundest hatred. 
                  "But for him--whatever you call him--pale-face, Christian--I feel wildest deadliest hate! You know me well I when love or hate enflames me, a raging fire fills my soul, and grows into a flame consuming as our Eastern sun! Selika, I think I have discovered a fatal secret, and--whether I am wrong or right--that man shall perish. I have sworn. I never take a solemn oath by Vishnu and our other gods in vain." 
                  "Neluska!" cried the woman, clasping her hands. 
                  "This accursed Christian should beware my hate!" 
                  "Stay!" said she, keeping between the Indian and his foe. "I entreat you--" 
                  "Do not entreat for him! The more you utter in defence, the more eager I am to condemn." 
                  He lifted the iron and pushed the woman on one side. 
                  Vasco breathed regularly, in total unconsciousness of the death impending. 
                  Selika struggled with the assassin. 
                  "No, no!" screamed she. "Good master, awake, awake!" 
                
                
                  CHAPTER V. 
                  THE DISCOVERY.-THE RIVALS.-THE TRIUMPH OF THE FOE. 
                  AS VASCO shook off the slumber that had nearly proven fatal to him, he started at the view, of Neluska. 
                  The Hindoo had concealed the iron bar. 
                  On learning that the latter was trying to escape, the navigator told him that the idea was folly. 
                  This portion of the inquisition prison was completely surrounded by the many chambers set apart for the keepers, the guard, the troop, of torturers, and the minor officers. To leave one room for another was nearly the same as out of the frying-pan into the fire. If a captive stayed where he was flung at first he might be forgotten and perish merely by hunger-if he proved his existence by attempted escape, he would receive a lesson that few had ever survived. 
                   
                  More at the wish, however, of his queen than at Gama's order, the Hindoo crept back into his cell, leaving the gap unfilled. 
                  That the sailor did not notice. 
                  Selika, hiding her face, had sat down upon a log in a dense shadow. 
                  Her passion was so far from noticed by the Portuguese, that she almost wished to resign it. Whenever his clear eyes, undimned by captivity, fell on her, she dreaded that he perceived his own image engraven on her heart, and the suffering that she sought to equally conceal from his searching gaze. 
                  For a while, Vasco, too, pondered on his loved one--Inez--alas for the Indian queen's hopes! He felt that his life was never meant to end within four walls. Not only had he deep seated affection to fulfil, but his high ambition. 
                  He who had beheld the Southern Cross gleam in all its majesty, like holy writ upon the Australasian sky, who had been saved from the fate of his hundred comrades, could not give up his idea because there were dungeons, pincers and the axe. 
                  Suddenly he rose from his thoughtful attitude, picked up a fragment of the earthen vase, and stepped to the wall opposite the cresset. 
                  He rapidly effaced some lines already drawn, and pensively contemplated the blank. 
                  The outlines which absorbed all his attention were a tolerably accurate representation of the western coast of Africa, from the northern point of the continent to the Cape of Good Hope. The eastern shores were traced upward from the south, but in a doubtful manner. 
                  "Is the line a continuance of the coast," thought Vasco, "or does an ocean lie beyond, and the country of my dreams at its distant verge?" 
                  At the end of his calculations he began to scratch the mould from the stained granite, leaving bluish white marks scarcely visible. 
                  "This," said he, making a stroke, "was Diaz's course in his first voyage. This his second. This, the one he took when I was wrecked." 
                  Then he gave himself up to renewed calculations. 
                  "Oh, fatal and terrible headland, boundary for the timid, though none have ever yet been crowned with the glory of rounding you, I will attain the victory yet." 
                  A brightness seemed to form an aureole about his head. He lifted his eyes in prayer. 
                  Then, holding the rude pencil with a firm grasp, he drew the course his vessel should pursue around the cape. 
                  "The passage must be there!" exclaimed he. 
                  "Yes!" 
                  It was Selika. 
                  She had risen sometime since, and gradually thrown off her thoughts as she saw the navigator so enthusiastic in his theory. 
                  "And then a bay?" asked Vasco, pausing on the line he was making. 
                  "No--an ocean!" 
                  "Ha!" 
                  He clasped his hands in gratitude. 
                  "I was right, then," said he, hastening to continue the drawing with lines, which Selika's silence confirmed. 
                  But when he had to pause, again in doubt amid the unknown, he looked at her for counsel. 
                  He was too enwrapt to ask the source of her knowledge, or, more likely he intuitively divined it. 
                  "To the south'ard," said he, half inquiringly, as he began a stroke. 
                  "Not so," cried the Hindoo, laying her soft little hand on his, harsh by his maritime life, yet softened some what by the long confinement. 
                  "Why not?" asked he in surprise. 
                   
                  "To venture there is to seek death-the ocean spreads out thitherward far beyond man's knowledge." 
                  "What then?" 
                  "To the right and upwards," said Selika, making a gesture. 
                  "A nor'west course," said Vasco, translating her words. 
                  "Behold a land!" exclaimed Selika, with flashing eyes. 
                  Before their glance, the gloomy cell had melted, and she caught a glimpse again of 
                         
                           "The land where the citron-trees grow, 
                           And like gold in the dark leaves the oranges glow, 
                           Where softer winds faint from the blue heavens breathe, 
                           And the laurel and myrtle stand stirless beneath." 
                        
                     
                   
                  Vasco's enthusiasm was immense, but hers was almost equal to it. 
                  He had all along rested part of his hopes on revelations that might be his in time. Now, it appeared as if the favor was accorded at length. 
                  "You saw land-what land?" asked he. 
                  "An immense country," returned the Indian. "It is separated from the rest of the world-your world of blanched faces and cold suns. The Zamorin of Calicut governs all the vast space to the right hand--" 
                  "Of my kingdom," she was about to add, but she hesitated to betray her whole people for the love of one man. 
                  "Proceed," said Vasco, "I beseech you." 
                  "I know little of such things," said the Indian queen, frankly. "All I can tell, is this. I was in a frail boat with Neluska, amongst a flotilla that guarded the queen of my country. A storm swept over the placid sea, and when we woke up from a dream-it was so real and terrible, that we could not believe it true!-a dream of lightning, freezing rain and furious blasts-we were upon the waste of waters all alone." 
                  "Triumph!" cried Vasco, flinging the pencil from him after some bold finishing strokes like a Michael Angelo's for firmness. "Triumph, the truth was mine! It is there! The course is thus! You have set the stamp of confirmation on it, and thank you, Selika." 
                  "You thank me?" said she, in a faint voice. 
                  "Yes," cried he. "You are an angel, guardian of the light of truth. The immense favor and unequalled joy that you afford me, shall ever be treasured in my heart of hearts." 
                  Selika trembled with her emotion, and murmured: 
                  "Oh, gods of my race, am I his dear one? That a sweetly brilliant ray floods my soul with an intoxicating delight! I sway between hope and love! In mercy, be my friend, goddess of love." 
                  Unable to control herself, she fell into the lieutenant's arms. 
                  He gently repulsed her. 
                  "Poor thing," said he, "she little knows our race. Selika, awake!" 
                  Finding her continue in the ecstacy, he carried her to the nearest resting place and set her down upon it. 
                  He had not heard the outer bolts drawn back, and the large key turned in the lock. 
                  He was still bending over the fainted Indian, when a man was bowed into the cell, by the turnkey, lantern in hand. 
                  "Ha!" cried the visitor, starting back, "here is something to tell the dame." 
                  Vasco then looked up. 
                  "The President of the Council!" exclaimed he. 
                  "Ah!" said Don Pedro Alvarez, "I see with pleasure that the imprisonment has not impaired your memory." 
                  Meanwhile the turnkey had taken Selika by the arm, and forced her to leave the cell. 
                   
                  He closed the door after him. 
                  He had not observed the ruins which Neluska had made in the corner. 
                  Nor did Don Pedro, intent upon his own affairs, remark that either. 
                  "Well?" inquired Vasco, calmly, "what do you bring to me." 
                  "I bring you liberty, Senor Vasco," said the noble. 
                  The other started. 
                  At that moment, when he had removed the only defect in his calculations, he would almost have accepted freedom from the devil. 
                  "Liberty!" repeated he, relishing the word as a hungry man might a hearty meal. 
                  The noble replied not; but unloosing his girdle, and taking from under it a small piece of vellum, to which was attached a thick seal of wax, exhibited it to the lieutenant. A hectic flush passed over Vasco's face as he glanced over the instrument. 
                  "You see by that document," said the president, "that you are free." 
                  He turned away on his heel to give the navigator time to read at his leisure. 
                  The latter was amazed. He read the parchment like one fascinated, compelled to peruse to the end, although each word was an astonishment. 
                  The scroll ran thus: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "SENOR EMANUEL, King of Portugal and of the Algarves, Lord of Guinea and of Ethiopia and of the conquest, commerce and sea-discoveries of the Orient (given to our most faithful majesty by his Holiness our Father the Pope), Grand Master of the Orders of Christ, Avis and St. Jago, honorary president of the University of Coimbra, etc., etc., for the reward of the loyal, order that all within our realm, and all without who are leal, to obey on the ensuing named seas, our beloved subject herein after named. 
                              "Know by this token, and by orders recorded in the Council-book, that we do grant hereby full command of an expedition of thirteen ships to Senor Don Pedro Alvarez Cabral, President of the Royal Council, Count of etc., Third Commander of the Order of Knights of St. Jago, etc. 
                              "He is, by means of these vessels, their crews, the soldiers and armament, to discover, take and seize for the greater endowment of the kingdom, all the region lying to the east of the Cape of Good Hope, as shown in the plans of the said Senor Don Pedro. 
                              "Unto his skill and zealous care, as well as for his life of faithfulness, we are pleased, in our sovereign goodness, to entrust to him the glory of attempting the dread passage. 
                              "And, moreover, besides the hope of greater largesse, we proclaim Don Pedro governor and viceroy of the said territory to be discovered, under Heaven. 
                              
                                 "EMANUEL REX."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  Vasco took up the head line again, unable to believe his eyes 
                  "Emanuel-King Emanuel!" ejaculated he. 
                  "Oh!" said Pedro. "I forgot that no news comes regularly to the prisoner of the sacred Inquisition. Yes, King John the Second died several months ago, and a monarch of still more beneficient qualities is on the throne." 
                  "But what does this mean?" cried Vasco in indignation, pointing to the scroll. 
                  Pedro started. 
                  "Confusion!" cried he, quickly snatching the parchment from the navigator. "I did not mean to give you that. Here--" 
                  He changed the document, for another, similarly sealed. 
                  "Here is your release," said he. 
                  Vasco took the second writing mechanically. 
                  "And you," said he, in deepest indignation, "have taken advantage of the scraps of plans and charts stolen from my person-the fruit of my thought and perilous voyages-to make yourself a viceroy." 
                  "Pshaw," said the president, "your papers were mere senseless dreams! Long ago, Enrico Herreros committed them to the flames!" 
                  "My lord," said Vasco, "do not say so! The glory of the discovery belongs to me, and you cannot wrest it from me." 
                  The other laughed. 
                  "Foolish man," said he, "if I feared you, for talents or other cause, do you think I would have sought your release?" 
                  There was a silence. 
                  Vasco suspected, too correctly, that the president had not procured the pardon from motives of perfect disinterestedness. 
                  "Do you not think you should make some return for my grace," said Pedro insinuatingly. 
                  Vasco kept silent. 
                  "As commander of so large a fleet," said the noble, "I can easily dispose of any rank, even that second to my own." 
                  "I understand you," muttered the navigator, bitterly. "You wish that I would be your pilot?" 
                  "Yes, Senor Vasco, and you shall be captain-lieutenant of my flag-ship," said the noble. "Besides, if you lead us to the land, you shall not be unsatisfied, I pledge my word." 
                  Vasco drew himself up to his full height. 
                  "Senor," said he, "vultures can never judge the eagles! I am a bird of single flight--I will not ply my wings with the flock; the baubles, though of gold that may be put about my neck, I feel as weights, I love the crown of God's own sunlight only! To such a proposition as your own, I can only say. No! no!" 
                  Pedro bit his lip in vexation. 
                  "You pretend," went on Gama, "to have pierced the future and the unknown. I tell you--I who have been to the verge of the known world and peeped into the wonders thick beyond--that you will miserably fail!" 
                  The president was appalled by the speaker's earnestness. It was like an ancient prophet's. 
                  "You, nursed in zephyrs in the flowered vales, fancy you can meet the hurricane and snowy gales of the Cape, you think to win what Bartholemew Diaz failed to gain! Bah! I despise you more than ever for your presumption!" 
                  So far, Don Pedro had calculated upon the assistance of the prisoner. He had not doubted that the latter would gladly accept his offer. 
                  Hence his deep disappointment. 
                  "In a word," cried he, "you will not be my pilot, Senor Vasco?" 
                  "In one word--no!" 
                  Vasco said no more thenceforth. 
                  As if to test the truth in the pardon that he held, he slowly opened the cell door, did not once glance behind, and strode out upon the damp corridor. 
                  At the display of the parchment, not a hand was raised to stay him. 
                  Out upon the street, he stepped. 
                  The passers-by shrank from him, fresh from the dungeon as he was. 
                  At the Square of the Flower-Market, he found himself alone. 
                  His dazzled eyes hardly could distinguish his whereabouts. 
                  When he approached a bystander, the persons left him without a word. 
                  The market-keepers bade him move on. 
                  In the midst of the treatment, he felt a little hand take hold of his timidly. 
                  Selika was by his side. 
                  He let her draw him away from the mob, down one of the narrow, noisome streets, dark from the joining over head of the hanging houses. 
                   
                  In the meantime, Don Pedro had vented a volley of curses. 
                  "Damnation!" cried he, "I'll appeal to the Prince of Evil himself before I give up the enterprise. The fame and the wealth must be mine!" 
                  He spoke the words loudly. 
                  "They shall!" said a voice. 
                  Pedro was chilled to the marrow. 
                  Not a soul was in the cell, besides himself. 
                  As if to aid the illusion that he naturally fell into, he beheld a dusky form slowly rise from the ground and penetrate the stone wall. 
                  He clapped his hand to the sword hilt, but he had not the courage to draw. 
                  The figure approached. 
                  He could not recoil. 
                  But when the form came within the rays of the lamp, the noble recovered from his deep alarm. 
                  "Oh! only the slave!" exclaimed he, drawing a breath of relief. 
                  "Only the slave," said Neluska, bowing low in the Eastern fashion. 
                  "The very thing I wanted," muttered Don Pedro. "Slave," said he aloud, "follow me!" 
                  "I am at my master's orders." 
                  The two left the cell, one after the other. 
                  Neluska, when Don Pedro had imparted to him the manner in which the Indian could save him, gave ready acquiescence. 
                  But the viceroy in prospective, might have felt less easy, if he had suspected how much vengeful hate for the whites, lurked under the Oriental's smooth, brown skin. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                  THE PRICE OF FREEDOM.-THE SACRIFICE OF LOVE.-THE SAILING OF THE FLEET. 
                  AT the mouth of the Tagus, or rather in the broad arm of the sea, were lying nearly a score of vessels. 
                  The dozen largest of them, however, were the only ones that we have to observe. 
                  The others, laden with oil and fruit, for merely such "fearful voyages" as to English and French ports, are beneath our notice. 
                  The rest formed the fleet, about to attempt again the passage of the Cape. 
                  Besides the royal standard on the flagship, the lion trampling on a nettle leaf of the Cabral arms, was also at the mast-head. 
                  It was night of the second of June, 1497. The moon was dim and hazy, and her light a little obscured by thin clouds driving with great swiftness across her surface. The wind was all a-peak-for the fly of the vanes at the masthead was motionless and drooping. Not a leaf rustled on the trees on the shore. 
                  The only sound there, had been the riot of some of the guards and seamen bidding farewell to girls that had come from the city. 
                  But all them had finally been taken a-board. 
                  The fleet, except for the chief's presence, was ready to sail. 
                  In the shadow of the bank near a clump of wild olives, two figures might have been seen from the ship nearest the shore, if anything like strict watch had been the need or order. 
                  One of them wearing his prison garb of a week since, was easily recognizable as Vasco de Gama. 
                   
                  The person by him wore the dress of a boy, that is, the same as a man's, but cut more fantastically. 
                  The costume was of rich materials but had seen service. 
                  It had, truth to say, been a page's in the household of Don Alvaro, his kinsman. That noble, thanks to the prime minister, had fallen into disgrace, and was on a compulsory visit to Spain. The steward, knowing little of Vasco, had given him a dinner, a piece of eight, and a bundle of old clothes. 
                  Vasco heard that Selika, who remained with him obstinately, was being sought by the president. 
                  Although he might have claimed both her and Neluska as his slaves, he feared to enter into any argument with his most powerful foe in a court, sure to be unjust. 
                  Hence, the disguise of the Indian Queen. 
                  Her complexion went passably as a sun browned youth, although her bearing was far too womanly if she had been the object of deeply scrutinizing eyes. 
                  Many lights were burning on the ships, for the last boatloads of cargo had yet to be put under hatches. 
                  Vasco, keeping on his feet as if fatigue was unknown to him, watched the flag-ship patiently. 
                  Selika, afraid to interrupt his meditations, had sat down on her cloak on the ground and gave herself up to reflections quite as profound. 
                  At last, the president being still delayed in the city, the vessels, prepared to put forth to sea at a moment's notice, rode quietly on the tide. 
                  The lights went out gradually on every side, and the various sounds faded away likewise. 
                  Then Vasco's gloomy countenance relaxed into a smile of relief. 
                  "My attempt," thought he, "would have been impossible, if the ship had been encircled by the reflected lights." 
                  He aroused Selika from her reverie, and asked her, in the gentle voice of an aged man speaking to a junior, although he was so young in years, if she was willing to accompany him still. 
                  She answered "Yes." 
                  She would have given worlds to have been able to add to her assent, the condition that he would let her be his companion whether he won or lost in his venture. 
                  But she had not the courage. 
                  She silently followed him therefore, towards the little inn, where silence also reigned. 
                  There Vasco had a short conference with the landlord, an old sailor who was a true friend. 
                  He received from him the key of the chain of the boat, moored by the bank, which Vasco had used on that first night of return to his country, to assure Donna Inez of his undying love. 
                  "And, look you, Senor lieutenant," said the landlord, as he gave the pair of oars to Vasco. "If you do sink the boat, never mind, as long as you don't go down in her." 
                  "Your kindness shall never be forgotten," returned Vasco. 
                  The seaman would take no money from him, truth to say. 
                  In a few minutes the boat, propelled by Vasco, with Selika crouched in the sternsheets, was breasting the in-coming tide and edging away cautiously towards the fleet. 
                  A light that seemed to be the navigator's beacon, glittered, with uneven power as the vessel rose and fell, in the cabin windows of the flag-ship. 
                  The captain's cabin in the high poop of the Valle de Carjaval, as Don Pedro had renamed the craft after one of his estates, was divided athwart-ships by a partition, which made a room of the stern portion. 
                   
                  This had been fitted up most lavishly. 
                  Putting the small windows out of the question, and taking advantage of a moment when the ship "slept," just between falling and rising, one would have thought themselves in a palace on dry land. 
                  The whole of the walls had been tapestried to conceal the framework of beam and bulkhead. 
                  Very thick carpets were on the floor. 
                  A silver lamp, of large size, and burning perfumed oil, was suspended in a curiously wrought frame to keep it steady in the swinging of its chains. 
                  Inez (de Cabral, now), was seated on a Moorish sofa, in an attitude of profound melancholy. 
                  One who had known her half a year before would have been startled at her presence as if she had been a shadow from the world of spirits. Her form still as extremely elegant in its proportions, seemed as light and airy as if no earth had entered its composition; her hair curled its jet black ringlets about a face that was as pale as marble; her eyes were of a dull hue, with an expression that was something akin to madness; and a dark melancholy sate on her forehead, that seemed to fling a shadow over the whole face, and deepen its natural paleness. What rendered her still more striking was that she wore white, which ill accorded with her appearance. 
                  Ana, her attendant, was pretending to be busy in seeing what the cabinet and wardrobe drawers contained, but often looked up from the quantity of purchases that Don Pedro had made, to regard her mistress. 
                  "Ah me!" sighed she, "I never saw such a woe-begone bride!" 
                  Inez had been married to the president of the royal council, by express repitition of King John's orders, by King Emanuel, just three days before. 
                  She did not look up or smile, when the maid gave a little scream at the abrupt lurch or pitch of the vessel every now and then. 
                  "Ana," said she, at last. "Repeat to me what you told me an hour hence." 
                  "Do you mean, my lady, what I heard from my--my cousin, the guards-man, in the Inquisition Prison?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Why, he said that the turnkey of the seven 'deep' cells, had declared that he had, on opening the door to my lord your husband, seen Vasco de Gama a-kissing of that frightful copper-faced worshipper of devils that the lieutenant brought back from the seas--heaven forgive him, if mother church will not!" 
                  "There can be no doubt of it," murmured Inez. 
                  "No doubt of it," repeated the servant. "Oh, these sailors! I am quite frightened to be on the same ship with so many of them!" 
                  "There would be more cause for alarm, my girl," said the lady, "if lands-men or a less number of seamen were with us." 
                  "Oh, I know that, my lady." 
                  "You may leave me for the night, Ana," said Inez. 
                  "Yes, my lady. I hope you'll sleep well. I'm sure I shan't. I don't expect any sleep for the next year-that I don't!" 
                  Inez was left to herself. 
                  The loneliness weighed upon her. 
                  At times, she dully heard the mis-step of some of the watch, or the fall of some implement on the reverberating deck. 
                  The only constant sound was the flow of the tide, bubbling and seething against the water-line as it foamed past. 
                  That was of the nature to continue her abstraction. 
                  In the midst of it, she did not perceive a man's head appear enframed in one of the open ports. 
                  As soon as the spy had made sure that the lady was alone, he proceeded to climb through the aperture with great agility. 
                   
                  A little boat was fastened by the painter to the stern. It was that which had brought Vasco de Gama and his companion to the Valle de Carjaval. 
                  To ascend by means of the carvings in deep relief upon the poop, was an easy matter to him. 
                  He first examined the cabin. He was overjoyed to see his anticipation crowned. 
                  Then descending as he had gone up, he took the Indian woman in his arms as if she were a child, and with more ease and with a greater expense of time, he attained the window again. 
                  There arriving, he cautioned Selika to keep silent, and to cling to the carvings. 
                  She did so, terrified as she was in some degree. 
                  Luckily, the upper rail overhung the stern to an extent that prevented discovery by the sentinels above. 
                  The boat, dancing on the edge of the dead water and the ripple, was unperceived as well, in the shadow as it was. 
                  Vasco, we repeat, had carefully entered the cabin by the narrow port. 
                  The first intimation that Inez had of his presence, was his words, 
                  "My lady, I kiss your feet!" 
                  It was but the customary verbal homage, relic of the chivalrous feeling, new then. 
                  She rose in surprise, but did not make an outcry. 
                  "Is the tale true?" asked Vasco sorrowfully. 
                  "Quite," responded she, hanging her head in spite of herself, so far from violent was he, and hence so much the more reproachful. "I have been the wife of Don Pedro for three days." 
                  There was a pause. 
                  "I would not believe it until I heard the confirmation from your own lips," observed Vasco, with a sigh. 
                  Not a word of denial from him, thought Inez. Yet Don Pedro, supported by her maid's intelligence, declared that Vasco had been seen embracing his slave. And rumour said that the Indian woman was even handsome, of her style of beauty. 
                  Besides, she could not but feel pity at the sight of the man who had braved great danger and shown great persistence in penetrating now to her presence. 
                  His hair, falling down about his shoulders, and his beard, seemed of more than a year's growth. Over his clothes he wore a kind of boat-cloak, which, fastened round his neck, descended nigh the ground, but all this penury could not conceal the step and air of other and better days. As he drew nearer to the lamp Inez could perceive, however, the traces of his misery in the sallow complexion and in the sunken cheek. The eye, which he bent with such fond and passionate expression upon the lady, was little dimmed and deadened by that uncertain gaze so peculiar to those who have been long deprived of light, and his tall, commanding figure was bent slightly at the shoulders, by the habit of stooping and sitting in study over his plans and schemes. 
                  On his entrance, as we have said, Vasco was attired in the large cloak of dark cloth, worn by the boatmen on the river, which had completely enveloped him from head to foot, but as he stepped forward in haste and agitation, it had fallen to the ground, and he stood revealed in all the sordid wretchedness of one escaped from the oubliette "fathoms deep below the earth." 
                  There was some peculiar majesty in the bearing of this man, for even as he stood thus clothed in the squalid prison garb, all patched and tattered as it hung about him, with the very odor of the dungeon, the damp, and mildew of the cell, wherein he had so long been buried, clinging to his raiment, yet, in spite of all, did he still wear that princely air which nature had bestowed and which neither the tyranny nor vengeance of the persecutors of genius could deprive him of. 
                   
                  "Senor Vasco," Inez found the strength to say at length. "I was told and I was compelled to believe-with that horror, imagine!-that you were languishing in the gloom of some dreadful dungeon." 
                  "My lady, I had religion, love, and faith in the loved," interrupted the man, "and I did not languish. At times, and often, thank heaven, I was happier with my crust and water than the inquisitor at his Italian fish, or the noble Don Pedro at his deersmeat." 
                  "You were in the dungeon, at least," went on the lady. "I am but a woman, and I judged too hastily perhaps of what a man-of what a man like you can bear. I pleaded for you, and in the end, I would have been so happy could I have borne the liberty to you." 
                  "Be happier in the thought that you did not," returned the lieutenant. "I would have learnt your faithlessness-pardon me! I have been from the court too long to speak less plainly-I would have learnt that sooner. I might have retained myself in bonds by refusal of the gift so acquired." 
                  "Senor Vasco," said Inez proudly, "if I had not, before the day of your release, divided my fate from yours, what was seen that day, must have parted us forever. You can only have come to say farewell--" 
                  "I am a man of honor. I can only come to a married woman to say farewell, forever," rejoined the navigator, proudly as she herself! 
                  She let her head fall again. There was no overcoming such a man. He who was to surpass his fellow man and the pathless sea, could hardly have been conquered by a woman. 
                  "My lady," said he, with evident reluctance, "my heart has divined your suspicions. 
                  He strode to the window hastily. 
                  Inez feared he had gone mad. 
                  She was not much relieved when she saw him, by sheer strength of arm left inside the cabin the Indian Queen in travestie. 
                  Inez, like all of her sex, was keener than the opposite in judging by outer form. 
                  She penetrated the disguise much more quickly than any man. 
                  She affected to curl her lip in scorn, but she could not help acknowledging that the slender figure and small, exquisite face were tempting (to a man) and provoking (to a woman), while arrayed in the unusual costume. 
                  (This was the reverse of that feeling which led females to theatres when there were no actresses, and the same feeling that takes men now that fairy pieces, spectacles and extravaganzas require the fair alone). 
                  "This slave," began Vasco. 
                  "Brought by you, from Africa," interrupted Inez. 
                  "Yes, Is merely my slave! My lady, do you forget that I am of the blood of fathers unalloyed by the Moors. By the saints, I would delight to see the man that would dare to say I am one to disgrace my lineage!" 
                  It was fortunate that Selika was confused, that she had remained at a distance from the two principals and that her acquaintance with the Portuguese tongue did not permit her to follow a speech delivered with the burning flow of molten gold. 
                  "My lady," resumed the navigator, "I fear me that you doubt still. I can prove my fidelity by one sign, calm your heart by a single word. Donna Inez--" 
                  At a beck, Selika, drew near, her eyes downcast and her cheeks flushed red. 
                  "Donna Inez, I give this slave to you. Selika," continued he in the tone of a mere master, "this lady is your mistress henceforth!" 
                  This was a test, and with a vengeance. 
                  If Inez believed the slander, what mercy could Selika expect at her Hands. 
                   
                  If it were true, Vasco would never have consigned a woman loved, to the woman who had fancied herself sole empress of his affections. 
                  "Ah! he only loves me, unhappy man, that I, most wretched woman, have made him! What destiny, that I should have made myself solitary from that day!" 
                  If the woman before had not taken the leap, what a flood of eloquence the mariner might have outpoured. How he could have exclaimed that it would not have only been a slave that he freely gave her, but that his life, his heart's best blood, all that he hoped for under heaven, might be her's for a glance of her dear eyes. 
                  That declaration, rejoicing to Cupid, was unsaid. 
                  Mean while Selika had felt her rage struggle with grief; should flashes or tears appear in her eyes? 
                  It was, indeed, time for just heaven to have pity on her, and punish the cruel man who, unconsciously, made her a martyr. 
                  As he cruelly had transferred her to the rival-so fair, she had to confess, that icy thrills ran through her veins with envy-Selika felt her heart-strings pulled in different ways by fury and shame. 
                  "She is so pale!" thought she in bitterness. "Ice-ice! and he can love her! If she were anything but snow, why does she let the thought of husband constrain her. I-I would fly to his arms, if I had a score of consorts!" 
                  Inez was the first to recover some coolness. 
                  "Senor Vasco, dear friend ever, do not stay here longer. There must be danger to you. I thought that long before this hour, I would have been on the way to the remote regions, where I might die--die, I say. That is my only hope." 
                  "Accursed be the infamous treachery that led to this," groaned Vasco. "Accursed my miserable fate!" 
                  Selika glanced from one to the other of the lovers. 
                  She saw how one was overcome with the cruel grief wringing his heart. She could almost find delight in his suffering. She did feel joy in beholding the painful contest of the woman. 
                  The demon within tempted her to believe that his torments were sources of gladness to her. 
                  Once the eyes of Inez and Vasco met. 
                  The deep, inexpressible despair and sorrow of each was communicated in that intermingling glance. 
                  Honor commanded them to part, without an instant's delay. Honor commanded each to subdue the love, pure one day, now guilty. 
                  Senor Vasco," said the lady, "the voice of glory calls you to be up and stirring. I believe you faithful-more so than I was!" 
                  What woman could have said more? 
                  "You are one who will not pass my grave by, unheeded. My unfettered heart may then return to you in the dark watches of the greatest hero's life. When you hear the sea murmuring recall my whisperings of old, when God granted us the divine secret that we fancied ours alone, and tried to keep to us-so selfish is first love! Remember the heart that pines and yearns for death! Farewell! Beyond the sea of troubles is the blessed land-we may there clasp hands as old, and never fear separation-agonizing as this." 
                  He bowed before her, without approaching any nearer. 
                  She wished that she might officer him her hand. 
                  As Vasco, after making Selika an imperative sign to remain, went to the window, he suddenly started. 
                  A large galley was already alongside the little boat. 
                  Inez rushed to the window. 
                  She could not see. 
                   
                  Besides, Vasco repulsed her. 
                  "You must not show your head at the window as if in alarm. See! the window is outlined on the water, a shadow may ruin all!" 
                  His skilled ear helped him to trace the whole progress of incidents as if he had seen everything. 
                  The large galley, containing Don Pedro, his officers, and their valuables not previously brought off, soon was pulled along by boat-hooks to the lowered steps. 
                  Vasco gave a last look at Inez, and launched himself out of the window. 
                  Feet foremost he plunged into the dead water in the ship's wake, and the dive made hardly any noise. 
                  If heard on deck, the sentries presumed it but the leaping of a fish. 
                  Meanwhile, Don Pedro and Don Diego had hastened to the cabin, to see the Lady Inez. 
                  Both were surprised to see Selika there. 
                  They would have fancied her visit a supernatural one had not Pedro remembered the shallop. 
                  When they asked her if that was not how she had come off to the vessel, she hesitated. 
                  If Inez had given her a look appealing for her silence, the chances were that the Indian Queen would have avowed the whole. 
                  Little would she have recked what might have befallen her for declaring the shame of a noble lady, if revenge had been hers. 
                  But when she saw Inez, nerved into calmness, her cheeks but slightly flushing, just enough to prove that force of mind, and not the hardihood of shame, swayed her, Selika had not the heart to do it. 
                  Therefore she let them found what stories they could conceive, upon her strange appearance. 
                  To relieve her from further questioning, Neluska fortunately appeared, and led her away. 
                  In the meantime, Vasco had let the tide carry him far up stream before he directed himself to the shore. 
                  He had scarcely reached it, than he saw that the tide was still. 
                  Soon it was on the turn. 
                  A gun thereupon boomed out from the prow of the Valle de Carjaval, the same time that a ball of bunting ran up to the flagstaff on the foremast, and unfolded itself into the signal for sailing. 
                  The ships soon displayed symptoms of life in the putting forth of wings, or, less poetically, letting loose of sailcloth. 
                  Before long, another gun resounded. 
                  Then, the flagship in the van, the vessels slowly moved, head to open sea. 
                  The tide propelled them more than the faint breeze. 
                  Vasco felt his heart almost fail him as he thought of the pride the commander of such a fine fleet must feel. 
                  And he would have been that commander, if justice had been known in the land. 
                  It was enough to make a man fling righteousness to the winds and take to treachery as the shortest highway to fortune. 
                  Vasco watched until the slowest sailor had lumbered out of his keen sight. 
                  Then he fell upon the bank where he was, and began to pray. 
                  At first, his thoughts were of a woman, but soon he was pouring out his devotion for his country alone! 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                  THE VALLE DE CARJAVAL IN THE INDIAN OCEAN.-THE PILOT'S DESIRE.-THE LEGEND OF COLUMBUS.-NELUSKA'S INCANTATION. 
                  WITH greater good fortune than they had hoped for, the fleet under Viceroy Don Pedro rounded the Cape. 
                  Neluska's knowledge was but vague, and several days were lost in beating about. 
                  Still, the presence of land seemed proven. 
                  A dead monkey, still clinging to a water-logged branch, washed from some river's bank by a freshet, had been picked up. The sailors, all the more from the remains being partly eaten off by fish, and dried by the hot sun, vowed that the thing was a son of Triton or a satyr of the sea. 
                  The beautiful weather, however, had more effect in its way than superstition in its. 
                  A great subject of wonder, especially among the sailors, was another waif. 
                  It was such a bucket of thick staves and with a line attached, as is used in drawing water to cleanse a ship's decks. 
                  This was of undoubtedly European make. And, moreover, the brand burnt in on its side was in Portuguese, and, in any language, too extravagant to be naturalized in any other land but Portugal or it neighbor. 
                  "La Hermosura del Cielo. (The Beauty of Heaven)." 
                  "Why, look a-here, matey mine," one of the crew of the Valle de Carjaval had said. "The Beauty was that long caravel that lay three cable-lengths upstream from our pinta the Cock-don't you remember?" 
                  "By St. James, you're right, Pero," said all. 
                  But how could an article, not more than a week in the water, as experts said, have been dropped from a vessel last seen so many leagues away, and reach the Indian Ocean. 
                  Witchcraft evidently. 
                  The Pope had given all the territory to be discovered to Portugal. Of course, the devil would endeavor by every means to impede, if not frustrate, their designs. 
                  At all events, the daily prayers were more frequently attended than ever, except when they were doubling the Cape. 
                  The mariners were perpetually crossing themselves before the little box-shrines of their patron saints, such as Dominic, Nicholas, and inferior entries on the calendar. 
                  It was the middle of February. They had been eight months or so on the voyage, and had been delayed seriously only twice. That was on the African coast, and four of their disabled vessels had made for the Portuguese settlements in Guinea. 
                  The wind was barely sufficient to give the craft headway, and keep the sails from hanging straight down. 
                  The sun shone brightly down, making the shoreless waters sparkle as far as the eye could reach. No bounds were now set to the joy of the crews; they crowded the decks, making circles round vessels of wine and baskets of biscuit. 
                  Awnings were run over the whole length of the deck. 
                  The passengers were almost all above hatches, the heat below, though all the ports were open, being deadly. 
                  Guitars and rebecs were sending out their notes in every quarter. 
                  On the forecastle, a real castle in appearance, the crew of the Valle, like those of the other vessels, were enjoying themselves. 
                  As one ceased to chaunt, another would take up the instrument, salute the assemblage gravely, and proceed with his strain, grave succeeding gay. Now it was the old romance: 
                         
                           "By James, he is a noble knight, 
                           The Master old of Calatrava, 
                           He brings three Moorish heads cut off 
                           To give the King on silver salver!" 
                        
                     
                   
                  Or, "Galleys of the Prince": 
                         
                           "Oh! galleys of my dear-loved Prince, 
                           Feather your oars! 
                           The wind is stronger every blow, 
                           The pennon soars." 
                        
                     
                   
                  Or, again, the "Galleon of Steel": 
                         
                           "A merrie, merrie morninge 
                           Was good St. George's Day, 
                           When sailed ye Galleonne of Steele 
                           Out of Oporto's bay. 
                           Farewelle, all in the bonnie barque, 
                           Farewelle, my merrie men; 
                           Light hearts and heavye purses bringe, 
                           When you return agen." 
                        
                     
                   
                  "When we return again," said an old sailor, dubiously shaking his head. 
                  "Why, old Lope," said another, "you don't augur ill from such a lovely sky?" 
                  "Don't I? That's all you know. It's like the Indian women in the New World, the Caribbees and New Spaniards, as my Captain Christopher the Genoese called them. They looked beauties, but they'd put a knife or a stone-headed spear into you quick as say one-two!" 
                  "Why, what's wrong, old venerable?" said several. 
                  "We left port on a Friday." 
                  "Not exactly. We cleared that night, but d'ye see, we hadn't no offing till far into Saturday." 
                  "That isn't it, friend Pero." 
                  "There's plenty of monks aboard, and holy Dominicans, too," said a sailor, bowing to a priest who paced the deck to have a look from the prow. 
                  "We've got two of the Africans aboard," replied Lope, "that will outweigh a whole monastery with their deviltry." 
                  "Ay. He means the pilot and the strange woman." 
                  "Yes, he does," replied Lope. "I suppose some of you would like to gammon me into the belief that that little slight woman rowed that heavy yawl of mine host Figuerroa out to us alone. I'll swear it were chained up ashore when I came off in the last boat. Look!" 
                  All turned their eyes towards the stern. 
                  Selika, in attendance on Inez (who had made something of a companion of her in the long voyage), appeared on the high afterworks. 
                  "There's a hearty looking piece to pull that yawl against the tide," said Lope sneeringly. 
                  The seamen felt uneasy. 
                  "Come, Lope," said one, "you don't mean to say that there's no hope of our finding land beyond." 
                  "Land enough for a grave perhaps," responded the old seaman. "I believe, I tell you, but I can't say that we'll ever see it. I've sailed with Christopher Columbus in his last voyage, five year' and more ago. I was with Bartlemy Diaz his voyage afore last. Now, both of them had their opinions, and I know Columbus proved his. Diaz gave away his life for his'n." 
                  "That's so," said Pero. "I heard that Vasco de Gama, a lieutenant of Ad. miral Diaz, was cock-sure of land somewhere hereabouts out of the meridians!" 
                  Rather Vague, this, to be sure, but Don Pedro had taken care to keep his plans and knowledge from his highest officers. Hence, among the crew, all was surmise. 
                  If the provisions had not held out well, there might have been a mutiny long before this. 
                  While the sailors were holding their confabulation in the fore, the chief officers were amusing themselves in the other parts of the vessel. 
                  Don Pedro had grown tired of sitting by his wife, who replied to him with single words only, and with no questions whatever (miracle in a woman!) and was sauntering about the deck when Don Diego came up the cabin-ladder. 
                  The latter engaged the viceroy in conversation. 
                  In the course of it, he imparted to his son-in-law, the growing ill-feeling that the dignitaries of the church on board experienced for Neluska. 
                  "Oh! ho!" said Don Pedro, laughing, "do they think that that poor devil is the Devil-Lord forgive them!" 
                  Diego, far more credulous, went on to reveal blood-curdling horrors, to a devotee. 
                  The Hindoo had been seen, at dawn to ascend the mast, (the mizen, as the sailors had vowed to toss him over if they ever caught him on their spars forward) and indulge in a pantomime which could only be worship of some heathen divinity. 
                  He ate nothing, so to say, that the Christian did. Another grievous sin! 
                  "Here he comes now," observed Diego, recoiling. 
                  Neluska had come up the main-hatch. He surveyed the sea with an eye that the long practice had rendered considerably skilled, and then studied the sun. He seemed to be able to judge pretty accurately from it, and, indeed, kept a rude account of its altitude and declination. The Orientals, we know, were ever greatly devoted to sky and star study. 
                  Then he turned to the officer of the deck. 
                  "The wind is freshening and changing," said he, in his broken Portuguese, "a point more northerly, a pull on the lee braces will do!" 
                  "Are you sure," said Don Diego, pointing to the Indian, "that that fellow does not play you false?" 
                  "I!" exclaimed Neluska in well-acted innocence, having caught the sense of Diego's suspicion rather than the words. "My lord," said he to the viceroy, "did I not of my own accord place myself at your noble service?" 
                  "True, you speak the truth. My man, I am still indebted to you." 
                  Neluska's face assumed an eager expression. 
                  "My lord has forgotten my offence of the other day?" inquired he. 
                  "What, when you, as a guerdon of your services, requested the appointment of executioner to the ship, instead of him who did?" 
                  Diego turned away in disgust. 
                  "Anxious to be a vile torturer," muttered he. "A pretty idea of reward. Think of me asking the king to rank me as the headsman!" 
                  But Neluska had wished for the occupation so that he might, with his own hands, beat, scourge, torture the Christians. It would have been a favour to him. 
                  Pedro had refused him, fearing a revolt. The meanest man of the hold might have revolted against passing under the Indian's hands. 
                  If he had penetrated the true desire of the pilot, he would have been less easy in his mind than he was. 
                   
                  "You are a good fellow," said he, patting Neluska on the shoulder as the latter cringed before him. 
                  "What a wretch he is," observed Diego, as the Hindoo left them. "He has a serpent's eye-and his brows meet in the middle-a sign of bad fortune for all with whom he deals, Senor Don Pedro." 
                  "My good father," returned the viceroy. "He serves me, there's no bargaining with such inferiors. If my calculations are at all correct, we shall see green leaves and firm earth before three or four days are over." 
                  "Ah! good! It will make my daughter herself again!" said the old noble. 
                  Don Pedro glanced at his wife, and showed his disbelief by his air. 
                  He could have no doubt of the real state of the case. 
                  The change in the faint wind had roused the sailors into momentary activity. 
                  But they soon returned to their former lounging places. 
                  The conversation turned upon the many extraordinary events connected with the sea-farer's life, believed by all to be supernatural. 
                  In the midst of all, the old sailor Lope, raised his head. 
                  "Now, I'll tell you, messmates," said he, with the air of a man who was about to clinch the nail, "now, I'll tell you what happened on board a little craft that I once sailed in." 
                  All were attention. 
                  "I wasn't on board of her, do you see, when this here that I am going to tell you about took place: no, but it was a voyage afore I joined her; and I heard it from Saar Brito, an old sea-going dog that had been on the Nigna, as they called her-she never had no name given her, I heard say. 
                  "Saar always called the Yarn: 
                  "The Sea Sprite; or, the Voice from the Deep. 
                  "You must know that Admiral Columbus had left the little Pinta, and he was coming with the Nigna and his own Santa Maria to see a beggar of an Indian cacique that had invited him to eat yams and plaintains-which ain't bad, in their way! 
                  "Well, it were December, I think, but mild as May in a Valley, you know, that the two barkies were sailing along in a kind of steady-just-so-much-wind of a breeze. Land was well in sight. 
                  "The ship's company-I'm a-speaking of the Nigna-was down below pretty much-at dinner, may be-but as to that I can't say; if so be it was so, they dined early that day. 
                  "Pedro San Miguel, he was sailing-master and a very friendly man, he says to Saar, who was thick with him, you know. He says: 'Saar,' says he, 'come down to my cabin, and I'll give you a glass of grog.' Saar goes, you may suppose, no ways loath. There they was, in the midst of talk and freshening the nip, when all of a sudden they hears a voice, for all the world like as if they was hailed by another ship. 
                  "La Nigna, ahoy!" 
                  "Run up on deck, man," says the master, "and see who's hailing." 
                  "He goes on deck-he can't see no one; but he sings out: 
                  "You, Silva!" to the man that was on the look-out, "who was that that hailed?" 
                  "No one didn't hail, as I know; I didn't hear nothing." 
                  "Saar was a little puzzled even then, as I have heard him say. He looked about, and see'd all was well-light airs-fine weather-and down he goes below. 
                  "It was a mistake, Senor Pedro," says he; and both looking a little solemn like, they goes on a-sipping the grog. 
                  "Presently there comes again: 
                  "La Nigna, ahoy!" 
                   
                  This time, Saar doesn't wait to be sent; but he springs up upon deck, and he swears a terrible oath: 
                  "In the names of all the saints at Leon, what the deuce and all are you at there, Silva? Is there nobody hailing now, you deaf son of a sea-cook?" 
                  "Why, Saar, how should there be anybody hailing? and if there was, how should we hear them, seeing as how we be so far to wind'ard of the Admiral's Santa Maria?" 
                  Saar thought a-bit, and he couldn't but see that the lookout was right; and so he goes down again. Well, he had scarce opened his mouth, when louder than ever they hears, "La Nigna, a-hoy!" Old San Miguel jumps up at last, pokes his head through the companion, and sings out, along with Saar: 
                  "Hollo there?" 
                  "Take the sails aback, and let go your best bower to deaden headway!" says the same voice. 
                  "I'm d-d but that's queer!" says Brito. 
                  "I say, avast there, Saar! belay swearing; it's no time for that 'ere sort o' thing, for do you see, to my thinking, this here voice hasn't spoke for nothing. Call up the hands, Saar," says the master; and up he springs on deck. His orders were obeyed, and soon Saar's at his elbow. 
                  All was clear and a smooth sea, and the Nigna plunging along beau tiful! 
                  But they let go a good run of cable, and let the cloth shiver. 
                  Pretty soon, the Santa Maria keeping on her course, drew up near enough to hail as she swept by. 
                  "What'll we say back to the admiral?" said Saar a-handing the trumpet to the master. 
                  "I'm going to give him an explification in the best Dutch I know," said the old master. 
                  So he roughed over the call, and the Santa Maria, not making it out, cursed him for a fool, I suppose. 
                  However, on she went, on the very tack, the Nigna had held, when-plump up on a reef-one of them under water, just flush with the surface, that are the devils of those seas. 
                  The Santa was old, and leaky afore, but that settled her. 
                  There wan't anybody lost, nor the worth of a spike in cargo gone, for the Nigna had her boats out instanter. 
                  And the cacique ashore, he put out, along with his friends in more of their crinky-cranky canoes than you'd like to count on a summer's day, and they saved all, from the cook's boy's kit to the shoe-buckles of the Queen's page. 
                  "But what I say is," continued old Lope, "what was that voice that was so friendly to us-more'n to the great Admiral Columbus. There were none of us so very good and holy as all that on the Nigna." 
                  Not one undertook to explain the mystery; still fewer dreamt of disputing its occurrence. 
                  Still there was some consolation in the old sailor's story, corroborative as it was of the sweet little cherub accomplishing the feat of "sitting" up aloft. 
                  A cheery song or two restored their gaiety. 
                  They were a little dampened by perceiving that Neluska had come in among the party and was leaning on a water-butt calmly. 
                  If it had not been open day, and the officers on deck, in all likelihood the men would have played some trick upon the infidel. 
                  They tried to get rid of him by pretending not to notice him. 
                  But when they heard him humming an air, outlandish as his manner, one or two of the younger seamen jokingly asked him: 
                  "What do you call that rantipole bit of merriment, Senor Pilot?" 
                  "I am singing the song of the monarch of these seas!" 
                  "Who's that old chap? eh, man! King Neptune?" 
                   
                  "We call him Adamastor," replied the Hindoo gloomily, "the dread Adamastor, whose tremendous hand holds the ocean in the hollow of his palm!" 
                  "Whew!" cried a boy, "that beats the giant of the Stormy Cape!" 
                  "Come, Senor Pilot, let's hear the song of your friend Adamastor. By James," said they to one another, "the beggar aint so bad as he looks arter all. Time up, you with the rebec." 
                  But Neluska took the instrument himself, touching the strings now and then in the way that savages play, and chanted, in a rude and solemn tone, these dramatic verses: 
                         
                           Adamastor, monarch of the pathless deep, 
                           Rides o'er the waves to the wild wind's sound. 
                           Beware, beware, for should he draw nigh, 
                           Woe, woe to the wretch who crosses his path! 
                           See, he is there! how swiftly he glides, 
                           Illumed by the lightning's lurid glare, 
                           High up to the skies, he the dark waters piles, 
                           All hope now is lost, for the doomed wretch no tomb, 
                           None, none, but a watery grave! 
                        
                     
                   
                  The sailors were spell-bound by the intense feeling that the Indian infused into the rough melody. 
                  "Yes," cried Neluska, letting the rebec fall, "for ye nothing but a watery grave. All is vain, prayers or trembling. Ha! ha! ha!" laughed he like a demon. 
                  Some of the sailors crossed themselves. Others laid their hands on their knives or the unshipped capstan bars. 
                  There might have been something unenviable as the pay to Neluska for his entertainment, when an interruption came. 
                  It was one calculated to absorb all other feelings into one of amazement. 
                  The man at the mast-head had hailed the officer on deck. 
                  "What d'ye say, my man, aloft there? Land?" 
                  "No, senor!" bawled the lookout. "A sail!" 
                  "Whereaway?" 
                  "Dead ahead! and rising four feet every minute." 
                  "What's her course?" 
                  "Straight towards us, I think, sir. There! the Santa Fuerta has caught sight, senor!" 
                  Indeed, the littlest of the fleet, heading the party, had fired a gun and run up the signal of discovery. 
                  All was amazement. 
                  Not a soul but had thought that they were the first that burst into that silent sea. 
                  For some time, the stranger had seemed not be gained upon, although continually in view, and headed their own way. 
                  "What do you say, old Lope?" asked several of their elders. 
                  "It's some craft launched from Cape Flyaway." 
                  And soon after, as the old sailor went aloft to perform some duty, they heard him singing: 
                         
                           "Oh, mariners, oh, mariners! 
                           It's whispered on the wave, 
                           And thundered on the rocky peaks, 
                           Whose feet the rollers lave, 
                           That the waves which fill the measure 
                           Of that wide and fatal flood, 
                           Can never cleanse the Storm Ship's deck, 
                           Or wash her free from blood! 
                            
                           When sailors meet, they shake their heads, 
                           And ere they sunder, say, 
                           God keep us from the Tempest Ship, 
                           On the wide and watery way!" 
                        
                     
                   
                
                
                  CHAPTER VIII. 
                  THE STRANGER SHIP.-THE CALM.-IN THE HANDS OF THE MERCILESS.-THE TYPHOON IS COME. 
                  BEFORE night the mystery of the unknown vessel being headed to meet the fleet, with all sail set, and yet not stirring was unpleasantly clear. 
                  One of the calms peculiar to that region had embraced her, and soon circled round the fleet. 
                  The night passed in the continual flapping of the canvas in the dying puffs. At dawn, a perfect stillness was above, and the ocean was a mirror. 
                  The ships remained in their sailing positions, except two of the lesser ones which, by that singular attraction of great bodies, had insensibly floated toward one another. The crews of each had to take to their boats, and tug at each to prevent a serious collision, or, at least a ruinous entanglement. 
                  They had made out, to all the more marval, that the colors of the stranger, besides her build, pointed her out as a Portuguese. 
                  Soon after sunrise the lookout called out: 
                  "The three-master ahead, sir has put out a boat. They're rowing steadily, but taking their time. Small blame," muttered the tar to himself, "it's a deadly lively long pull." 
                  All were pleased with this, and much more when, from the deck, the little black speck, crawling like a fly over the smooth surface, could be easily traced. 
                  Don Pedro feared, he knew not what. 
                  Neluska also was sad. He dreaded that this might be something to frustrate a scheme of his. 
                  The treacherous Hindoo had taken two of the pigeons from the coup, during the night, attached a scroll to each in Hindostanee, and set them loose. 
                  He supposed his country to be somewhere near, and that the birds would find land. They would probably be too tired and too bewildered to escape to the jungle, and, following their domesticated nature, would seek dwellings of man. 
                  In an hour's time, more or less, the boat came within hail. 
                  "Friend-Portuguese," replied its crew. 
                  It was permitted to approach. 
                  The commander of the strange craft, who came in the boat, mounted the sidestairs quickly and stood upon the afterdeck, a centre for all eyes. 
                  "Vasco de Gama!" exclaimed all those who knew the navigator. 
                  "Vasco!" exclaimed Don Pedro. 
                  "What can have made him a fellow-traveler on these unknown seas," wondered Don Diego. 
                  Selika and Inez could have answered that. 
                  "Senors," said the young man, "I am, as some of you know, Vasco de Gama, captain of the caravel The Beauty of Heaven, at your service. It is one of a fleet of three under Senor Don Alvarez de Bermeo, of which I lost sight of in a gale three days since." 
                  "Have you been following my fleet?" cried Don Pedro. 
                  "Your pardon. I think not. You rounded the Cape?" 
                   
                  "On the tenth!" 
                  "We passed it early in last month," rejoined Vasco with a smile. "But you have the better ships." 
                  His tone implied that he might have added, "but I have superior navigation, and hence my success with inferior tools." 
                  "What is your object, rebel! Do you mean to defy us?" cried Don Pedro. 
                  Vasco overcame an intention of his. He had no proofs, in the absence of Alvarez for what his anger had almost made him assert. 
                  "My object is a simple one," returned he coolly. "If there be time, I am come to save ye!" 
                  The crew and the soldiers had broken through all rules, and had come as far as as they dared. 
                  Don Pedro ordered them back, and grumbled at the captain and master. Then he turned to Vasco and resumed his questioning. 
                  "What fatality," said he, "or, rather, what delirium has brought you past the fatal promontory where the trusty Admiral Bartholemew Diaz threw away his life with his vessel?" 
                  "By heaven inspired," replied the captain of the Beauty, "I am come to fulfill a holy mission. I have no time to bandy words with you. At present know that this calm may be mortal, if you let yourselves be trilled into peace. The land of the Zamorin of Calicut lies beyond not half a day's sail--" 
                  "Land!" cried Don Pedro, and Diego, and the few other officers that could hear. 
                  "The land I foretold was in this region, and which I was first to see!" exclaimed Vasco. 
                  Pedro was furious at this forestalling of his glory. 
                  "We are not afraid of the ocean's treachery," said the captain of the flag-ship.
                   
                  "I doubt it not, but a foe more insidious is on the wave. The natives of the East are fierce and ravenous. When my boat's crew landed, they sent a forest of arrows and spears on us. If I had not had armor on, and most of my men their brigantines and gorgets, we would have been transfixed to our own gunnel. When we did shove off, they followed in their boats, some scores of them. But our comrades in the caravel blew their canoes to flinders with the maindeck guns." 
                  "You have trifled with the natives, senor," said Don Pedro. "Wantonly tortured them into some sudden hatred of our race." 
                  "No! believe me! But I heard their war-cry, I understand their tongue, and I made out that they knew of our coming!" 
                  "Impossible!" cried all. 
                  "Impossible, if you have not sent forward a fore-runner. The other vessels of my admiral cannot have reached this tract as yet. I tell you then that you should clear your ships for action. Mine is ready. If this weather hold, you will see a thousand thousand proas, canoes and floats, filled with the savage warriors. And, as soon as they see the fleet, they will be enflamed with the hope of immense booty. 
                  Don Pedro glanced at his vessels and over the unspotted, unruffled waste and smiled in scorn of either man or element to injure his power. 
                  "Oh, you think so?" said he, lightly. 
                  "Believe me!" said Vasco. "You may yet be saved from the peril menacing you. You see how the long voyage has fettered your arms, as it were. Look! There is hardly a gun in working order except on the forecastle for signals. It will take you hours to rig up the boarding nettings, as it is, besides the other preparatives!" 
                  Don Pedro still smiled in mockery. 
                   
                  The other officers, taking the cue from him, langhed and went away to their stations. 
                  "And so your generous ardor wishes my salvation? God's truth, I never saw such folly!" said the viceroy. "Are you quite sure, noble Captain Vasco, that you are come to protect me only?" 
                  He had noticed Vasco's eyes wandering towards Inez, still seated under the awning not far from the speakers. In vain had her father tried to induce her to go below. 
                  "I tell you, Senor, that you should not waste precious time. A few minutes hence the sea will sparkle with weapons and flight is impossible in this calm." 
                  "Will you honestly acquaint me, senor," said the viceroy in a low tone, 'whether all your zeal and anxiety is for me-or my Lady Inez?" 
                  Vasco looked the speaker firmly. 
                  "Well, yes!" said he. "It is for her-for her, much rather than you, but only for her more than for my fellow countrymen. Judge me well. I am not one to let a single soul perish though it would drag your hated one to the resting-place of treachery along with it!" 
                  Don Pedro receded, trembling with rage. 
                  "Madman, and insolent!" broke forth he. "Know that upon this deck, and on those others, and even on your own, by my broad warrant, I am the single lord--" 
                  Vasco smiled, as at the confidence of his rival in a quicksand. 
                  "Your defiance should be punished as a mortal offence!" 
                  "Is that the answer of a Portuguese noble to a gentleman?" 
                  "A gentleman? ha!" 
                  "Another insult. Senor Don Pedro-never mind your other titles-they will never sink you-whatever I was from obscurity I could not help, I now-see--" 
                  He held out a scroll, drawn from an oilskin pouch within his bosom. 
                  "I now am a knight of St. Jago-you might have guessed it by my red sword. See, the patent is dated July the eighteenth, 1497, the very day I sailed with Don Alvarez. I dare you now to fight!" 
                  All this had passed in a deep concentrated tone which had not permitted many words to escape. But the attitude of the parties had led to their being closely regarded. 
                  "So, you brave me?" said Don Pedro, turning pale. 
                  "You have wronged me enough. No wonder you tremble!" 
                  "Oh, infamy and shame, to insult the representative of his majesty!" 
                  "Enough!" cried Vasco, drawing his sword. "Thank heaven if I slay you-the sword is better than the axe!" 
                  Don Pedro turned still more pale at the speech. It seemed to prick some secret wound within him, and release the poisoned blood that had there slept for a time. 
                  He plucked his sword out, screaming with rage: 
                  "Captain! Guard! Down with him! Traitor, secure him-strike-slay!" 
                  Their swords had hardly crossed when a dozen men interfered. 
                  In spite of his resistance, Vasco was overpowered. 
                  At the first of the scuffle, one of his boat's crew, who had come up the ship's side to chat with his countrymen, passed the word to his mate, while he rushed into the unequal fray. 
                  He was knocked on the head off-handedly with the butt of an arquebus, and then flung overboard. 
                  His friends pushed off then. 
                  Pedro' ordered chase to be given. 
                  Three boats were lowered, two from the Valle de Carjaval, a third from her neighboring vessel. 
                   
                  Then, from the fleet, a view was to be had of the interesting chase. 
                  The single boat had had a good start, for the pursuers had not taken to water without delay. 
                  The racing-ground was finer than the most level mead. 
                  If anything, the prize, though short-handed by two, gained a trifle as it drew nearer its own vessel. 
                  The fleet could perceive signs of great activity on the distant caravel. Besides it had drifted towards them, or they towards it, there being no landmark to judge which. 
                  Men were carrying a double set of nettings up to the yard's outer ring, and encircling the vessel. An anchor had been half buoyed to serve a drag and let down from a boat, so that her head had been hauled around. She presented her broadside to the fleet. But her guns on that side were not run out in even a single port. 
                  The flying boat was in hail of their friends. 
                  The pursuers had redoublod their efforts, and, thanks to their increased energy, were coming up with the fugitive hand over fist. 
                  As it seemed that their efforts were to be crowned with success, a cloud rose from the caravel and sluggishly floating along the water, covered the whole scene from the fleet. 
                  She had evidently opened fire with all her guns. 
                  In a few seconds, the report came by the very air the cannonade had made. 
                  "They have killed our brothers, the traitors!" cried the sailors in one voice. 
                  "Hillish!" shouted old Lope at the masthead. 
                  "Ay, ay, what?" 
                  "The caravel ahead is fighting a whole flotilla of strange boats-" 
                  "Yes. And our men?" 
                  "Gone aboard, senor, to help, I reckon?" 
                  The anger of the sailors cooled. 
                  "I warned you," said Vasco. "The Indians will be upon you?" 
                  "The Indians!" cried all. 
                  Selika and Neluska were viewed with no friendly eye. 
                  The cannonade still went on. 
                  "Silence, you men in the maintop!" shouted the officer on deck. "Lope, what do you see now?" 
                  "The caravel is a-holding her own, senor! But there's something black on the line, that looks like more boats for the red beggars!" 
                  This eloquent intelligence descended to the deck in the usual piecemeal way. 
                  "Now, senor," said Vasco, "you will release me. I must go to my ship, and die with my comrades!" 
                  "You may die here, if that's your desire. Captain, bind that insolent fellow to the mainmast, and, captain of the guard, pick out twelve men. And send your bullets through him. It'll take too much time to reeve a rope through a block, so I'll let him escape swinging!" 
                  All were in consternation at such cold blooded cruelty. 
                  "Coward!" cried Vasco. "Men, learn that our sovereign has discovered that Don Pedro there is a trai--" 
                  "Gag him!" yelled the viceroy, livid with fear and fury. 
                  "A traitor-the new viceroy is Alvarez de--" 
                  "Will you obey me, captain! Silence the madman!" 
                  Inez and Selika, moved by the same impulse, fell kneeling at the feet of the commander and besought him to restrain such rigor. 
                  "Oh, my lord, mercy, mercy." 
                  "No mercy!" 
                  "Then!" cried Selika, her form springing up from its suppliant posture like a tigress's crouching for a leap. "If heaven will not heed my prayers, let me see if powers of hell will assist." 
                  She caught Inez by her long tresses, and drawing a thin steel from her dress with her other hand, menaced the wife. 
                  "Now," said she resolutely to Don Pedro, "set Vasco free, or I will slay this woman!" 
                  All receded in horror. 
                  Pedro was mute with terror, and tremulous in his want of resolution. 
                  "I swear, I'll do it, by great Brahma!" said Selika. "Pronounce at once for mercy or for death!" 
                  Pedro waved his hand. 
                  "His life is safe!" 
                  Instantly, they unbound the captive, and Selika released the lady to her father. 
                  "Seize that fiend of a woman!" ordered Pedro. 
                  They took the weapon from the Indian Queen. 
                  "Put that man in the old bread-room, and a double guard at the door," said Pedro. "I only promised life to him. As for Selika, I made no promise to her. And justice would have absolved me if had. Our laws are severe against the slave who dares to lift his hand against master or mistress! She shall be made to embrace a gun and have a dozen lashes under the eyes of all!" 
                  Inez, repulsing, her father gently but firmly, put forth her hand. 
                  "Senor Don Pedro, in the presence of all, I declare that-as publicly as you have just displayed, your shameful cowardice-I, because, of it, will never more be your wife!" 
                  Neluska had taken up an axe and driven the half dozen men from holding Selika. 
                  "Let me see," cried he, standing before her, "Who will dare to outrage the Indian Queen!" 
                  The guns of the other members of the fleet announced some new incidents. 
                  Their yards were manned by the reefers. 
                  The men on the Valle saw the danger as well. 
                  From the same quarter that the savages had come to assail the intruders, the black cloud, presumed to be a reinforcement of theirs, had risen and now covered a fourth of the heavens. 
                  An ominous whistle seemed to sound forth from the hot dome far above. 
                  The fish that had been playing about the ships disappeared in haste. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER IX. 
                  THE CYCLONE.-THE WRECKS.-TWO SCENES OF LIFE AND DEATH. 
                  ALL had changed in a space inconceivably brief for such immense alteration. 
                  There were no fine, fleecy clouds running before the mass. 
                  Only the one dense wall that moved over the vault, the line of crenelated waves beneath keeping pace with its destruction to all between! 
                  The light now upon the ocean was that ghastly one of the sun breathing a sickly radiance on fleeing from the storm. 
                  The wind now increased in violence every minute, and flashes of lightning were seen at intervals. Lights were flashing on board the various vessels, and the crews were calling to each other as they endeavored to secure their craft from the coming storm. 
                  The Indians who had attempted the capture of the caravel had returned for the shore in all haste. 
                   
                  Those that were caught had their swift proas overturned at the first wave. The barks disabled with the shots met with the same fate soon after. 
                  The typhoon, seeming to divide, just as fishers run two nets out from a point, marched swiftly along each side of the sky, thus enclosing the fleet with three walls of fire and rain. 
                  The first blow passed over the ocean like the car of Juggernaut over a field. The ships bowed down before it, remained so, till it had rolled on, and then, with crushed and groaning ribs, with shattered arms, slowly resumed the even keel. 
                  That was but the horrible prelude to the real storm. 
                  It blew from the north-west, thereupon, with some steadiness until night time. 
                  This steady blow gave a little time for hasty cutting away of the stricken spars. 
                  The fleet had been separated long since. 
                  Each for himself was the motto. 
                  There was no promise of a better night. 
                  The north-wester was driving across the sky the routed army of clouds, and far between them piling up the white caps of the waves. 
                  There was an ominous sound in the air, dampened more and more by the agitation of the scud. 
                  The bells of the ship were tolling sadly at each roll, and the priests, saying their prayers, would not permit them to be tied up. That added to the melancholy. 
                  The ships of those days were so heavily sparred and so thick set generally, that any wind that swept away the top hamper left them like a mere mass upon the deep. 
                  The sailors could do nothing on deck, but, as they said then, "better to die so than like puppies blinded in a bag." 
                  The landsmen, of course, were kept below. 
                  Old Lope was standing on the high foredeck, at the heel of the bowsprit, whose broken remains still bore its curious upright mast. 
                  He was muttering and pointing at the water that the ship surged through. 
                  All the mariners knew what he was doing. 
                  He was "breaking the ninth wave," as the superstition had it. 
                  Whenever a larger wave than ordinary clambered over its foregoers, swallowing them to add to its bulk, his convenient arithmetic claimed that as the next to the eighth. 
                  Making the sign of the cross, he patiently and trustingly held on to the fore-stay. 
                  Then as the ship's prow seemed to go down and the dark blue mound to rise, the mass of water would strike the anvil of a bow like a hammer. 
                  A torrent of broken suds would tumble inboard all about the old tar's boots, and a shower of spray drench his grey hair, but Lope none the less kept his post, in full belief that he was preserving the vessel. 
                  Occupying that position, he was the first to cry out: 
                  "Land! and breakers, dead ahead--" 
                  Half a dozen of his fellow seamen and a petty officer rushed along the uneven planks to him. 
                  They could see, white as the surf was in the gloom, a long line of coral reefs, over which the surf broke frightfully. 
                  There were other ranges of rocks inside of that again. Behind all was a dark mass of great height, that was from its unshaken firmness in the tempest land. 
                  "Let go the left bower!" cried the forecastle lieutenant. "We must risk it. To the full length of cable!" cried he, dropping through the hatch into the cable tier. "Every inch of it! It it don't hold, it'll go all the same, with the rest of us!" 
                  There was an awful rattle as the cable rushed out and whistled through the surge. 
                  Presently there was a shock, a tug that made the whole immense frame shake, and, very slowly at first, the stern began to swing round. 
                  "At last!" cried the officers. "By all the saints, I thought it would drag, and drag all the while, if it should touch." 
                  They seemed to have been granted the respite to see a fellow sufferer dragged irresistibly to his doom. 
                  "Ship a head, driving, near wreck!" shouted old Lope. 
                  "So there is! It looks like the Mercedes," said the captain. 
                  "Ship a breast, driving!" 
                  It was the same, the next moment, flying by them. 
                  Then a cry from the forward startled all. 
                  "Think anchor's giving, sir, if you please," said Lope. "Or the rope's parting!" 
                  "God help us!" said the lieutenant. "Only look at the Mercedes. Lower deck, there!" 
                  "Ay, ay!" 
                  "Knock through the hawser-hole stopped up for'ard. Stand by to veer on a new cable and the right at the same time." 
                  Then they saw the Mercedes, swept beyond them, fairly hurled over the first tier of crags, and capsized like a shell upon the next range. 
                  The white spray ran over her, to the howling of the wind and the thundering beat of the rollers, till the sheet of foam seemed to rain on the clouds. 
                  The roaring continued. 
                  Before half an hour, the mound of brine entombing the hulk, sank down like a water-spout shot through. 
                  The vessel was blotted out. 
                  A shudder of agony ran through all those who had seen this from the Valle de Carjaval. 
                  Her first anchor had refused to hold, and two new ones had been let go. One hawser rode over the useless one. The violence of the sea prevented a drawing of the loose cable, which undulated in the sea like a serpent. 
                  There was an apparent lull in the typhoon. 
                  The sailors were clearing their eyes of the water when one of the flashes of lightning descended to the very waves half a mile from the flagship, and ran along the hissing heavings until it revealed another vessel of the ill-fated fleet. 
                  The wreck was lit up for an instant as if converted into gold. 
                  All expanded into a blaze, there was a pillar of fire that rose to support the hanging clouds. An awful detonation, loud as the thunder, louder than the tempest, was the mighty single note over the gallant hearts and stout vessel. 
                  "Good heavens!" cried Don Pedro, just come on deck at last. 
                  "If you please, senor," said a sailor, bowing ceremoniously, "it were the Senora del Pilar-I think, tho' she had on'y two stumps standin'-blown up with the last flash of lightning!" 
                  As if that terrific death had been a signal, the sulphur laden blast rushed upon the Valle de Carjaval. Anchored at the verge of peril-her cabin windows looking on the reef, her position was a defiance to the storm. 
                  Having nothing to mark their station by, it was sometime before Don Pedro and his officers perceived that the ship was anchored no longer. 
                  Before anything they could attempt, much less do, anything towards delaying the now unavoidable fate, the beginning of the concluding acts had commenced. 
                  A frightful grinding was the sound. 
                   
                  As the ship drove upon the coral, it tore and cut away the timber at the same time that the bottom ground the rock away. 
                  In the next instant every one, crew and passangers, was on the deck. On all sides the vessel was surrounded by rocks and breakers, while through the gloom the outline of high land was visible at a distance, exaggerated by the obscurity, and adding to the terrors of the moment, which it would be difficult to describe. The ship was yet afloat, but the shock had been too severe to leave any hope that she would continue to swim. 
                  Every moment, she was beating onwards upon the second rock, of older and more solid formation. 
                  It was on that that the Mercedes had previously disappeared. 
                  The women burst forth into frantic shrieks: 
                  At the same moment a fearful rushing wind, sweeping inland from where, far off, it had blown the canvas from the bolt-ropes of another laboring ship, came laughing shrilly over the rollers' heights and flung the spray in heavy mist like a winding sheet over all the hull. 
                  The boats, the spare spars, the remains of the splintered upper works, the hatches and companion lids, anything that would float, was instantly launched overboard, accompanied by man and woman. 
                  In the panic, none thought of other than himself. 
                  Ties of nature were snapped as ruthlessly as those of custom. 
                  When the ship at length settled down upon the rock, she was without a single human being on her deck. 
                  If any had remained, their death would have been only delayed. 
                  A gigantic wave, leaping the outermost ridge, pushed the Valle de Carjaval still father on, and then flooded her high decks and the lower. 
                  For the ship, her upperworks on the exposed quarter and all the houses on deck, swept clean away by the tremendous sea that nearly stove the battened hatches on which it thundered, utterly past hope now. 
                  She rocked for a moment, quite upraised, and then settled again down, slowly, as a sheet of spray, as lofty as where her mast tips had been, fell upon her, fore and aft. 
                  All was darkness about her. 
                  Upon the deck, gaping and split, an old man appeared. With an effort that was astonishing, he dragged or carried from the cabin, a woman's senseless form. 
                  It was Inez. 
                  He was Diego. 
                  He laid her down for a moment and sought to secure a fragment of a boom that was beating its iron-bound end on the deck. 
                  But he was utterly unaware of the position he was in. 
                  The hull rolled again, still settling down. 
                  He missed his footing, the boom rolled on him, he grasped it even as it crushed him. 
                  Both leaped the ruined bulwark together, the surf covering him, and smothering his cry of affection to the unconscious Inez. 
                  When Vasco de Gama became confident that the accident arrived to the ship had caused his guards to abandon him, he quickly broke his chains. 
                  As soon as he could find his way in the dark, he reached the fore-hatch. 
                  The water was spirting in at innumerable crevices in the strained frame, and gushing in at the larger leaks. 
                  The lanterns below had all gone out in the foul air. 
                  When he arrived on the deck, which was too much out of the horizontal for any but a seaman as expert as he, he could perceive no human being on the vessel. 
                  There was half a man jammed in the wreck of the bowsprit and foremast. 
                   
                  At the other end of the vessel, in the ruins of the carried-away upper cabin, in a pool sheltered a very little by a bulk-head, was a white object floating. 
                  As it might be a woman, or a naked man, Vasco climbed along by the gunnel to ascertain the truth. 
                  The flashes of lightning, now in the distance, and not over head, was all the light. 
                  He perceived that it was, of all persons in the world, Inez. 
                  He could not believe that she was dead. 
                  Yet she presented no tokens of life to even his eager fancy, willing to accept the slightest evidence. 
                  Embracing her with one arm, holding on to the timber by the other he sought to revive her by all the means he could devise. Earnest supplications to the Deity was perhaps the one he most relied upon. Few others could he use. 
                  Time had progressed during all these events. 
                  The final moment had come. 
                  Though the storm had abated, and the rollers banged against the weatherside with less and less resemblance to Titanic hammers, the shifting of the cargo had helped to sunder more completely the already parted planks. 
                  There was a sighing, a groaning and a low shriek or two, which an old mariner would have easily recognized and called the last breaths of a thing almost void of life, giving up the ghost. 
                  Then Vasco saw two thirds of the shapeless mass, from the stern to beyond the centre, rock and tremble like a harpooned whale in dying throes. 
                  Beneath Vasco's feet, he felt the planks dividing while the cavity below was resonant with hollow crashes. 
                  A bolt snapped under the pressure, a port was dashed in on the exposed side. 
                  That opening was enough. 
                  The torrent of brine unceasingly rushed in and widened more and more its entrance. In every direction there was splitting and rending, as if demon strippers were at work on the frame. 
                  Planks flew off here; there the stout ribs burst from their oaken pins; the stern-post was twisted from all its bands and clamps, and its wrenching away finished the ruin. 
                  Vasco felt the platform yielding under his feet and he tried to reach the fore part which less exposed, still was perched on the reef firmly. 
                  As he darted forward, carrying the lifeless form in his arms, there was a deafening explosion. 
                  It was the air of the hold, chased into every corner by the water and, in desperate attempt to be free, lifting the whole of the planking above it as if it had Hercules' shoulders. 
                  Vasco stumbled, he caught at a stray rope's end, it gave way, he leaped for the unmoving part. But a chasm opened between. He and his burden sank amid fragments of wood in a whirlpool of bubbling water. 
                   
                   
                     THE TREE OF DEATH. 
                     The storm raging. The lightning flashing in one living series of flames. At either end of a spar, turning as it rolled, rising with it, falling as it shot down the hills of seething, phosphorescent surge, a man. 
                     Neluska, smiling, triumphing over the death that he had led the hundreds into, prouder than a Leonidas at the salvation of his country. 
                     Don Pedro, pale, shivering, almost mad by the abrupt contrast from the viceroy and admiral to the most miserable of cast aways. 
                     If either of the men chose to relinquish his hold, the loss of balance would submerge the other end, and, in all likelihood, before that one could crawl to the centre of the spar, all would be over with him. 
                     Only once had Don Pedro addressed his companion. He had said something about the hope of being picked up when morning should come. 
                     "By the sea-wolves (sharks)," said Neluska, making a sign that the ravenous fish would be swarming when the storm should lessen. 
                     The tone of that grim reply, and the look of the Indian proved that the latter was not the man to forgive the affront offered to his queen, and more, the woman that he adored. 
                     Pedro was afraid to yield to the sleep of exhaustion creeping over him. He was more alarmed because the Hindoo regarded him so hatefully, than from dread of being washed off the spar. 
                     He had vainly scrutinized the tormented surface every time that they rose on a wave. 
                     After countless disappointments, he felt hope at last. 
                     A something that floated, that seemed to be one of the monster cuttle-fish at first in the obscurity, had gradually drifted near enough to be distinguished. 
                     It was a gigantic tree. Unearthed from the bank it had been whirled seaward in the circles of the typhoon. 
                     At either end of the half-sunken trunk, a portion of the boughs and roots respectively were upreared in air. 
                     The many involutions of the branches promised a secure hold to even a dying hand. 
                     Nearer and nearer, the spar drew to the tree. 
                     Finally, Don Pedro resolved upon his effort, treacherous as became him. 
                     With all suddenness, he leaped from the boom and struck out vigorously for the great giant. 
                     To his joy, he attained it, weak as he was. 
                     To his greater ecstacy, he found that the tree did not sink an inch under the accession of his weight. He nestled in among the boughs, above the reach of the water that had in his former buoy, washed over him at each flow. Only the spray touched him at intervals. 
                     From his slight eminence, he could see the result of his move on his fellow voyager. 
                     Naturally, the spar had tilted up, and, to save himself, Neluska had been compelled to release the timber. The next moment he was once more astride of the boom, and in the centre. It rode the seas more easily, lightened as it was. 
                     At various distances the tree and the log kept company all the rest of the night. 
                     The dawn came on gray, but light. 
                     Neluska, who had been overpowered with slumber, awoke. 
                     He started with horror at the first sight he beheld. 
                     The tree was not fifty feet from him. 
                     At first glance, Don Pedro, still upon it, seemed to be in repose like himself. 
                     But he had fallen forward in among the interwoven boughs, not in a reclining posture, as if overtaken by sleep, but in a position most painful to behold, his head heavily to one side, and so drawn downwards by the weight, his whole frame obeying the impulse. 
                     Oh, it was an awful sight to behold that livid face turned upwards to the light-the open eye, the hanging jaw-the foam which hung in loose flakes upon his swollen, discolored lips, and the attitude in which he had fallen, too, at once grotesque and horrible, one leg bent beneath the other, and the arms outstretched, as if appealing to Heaven against the precipitate decree, as if suing for time to repair the consequences of his unjust tyranny. 
                      
                     "The manchineel!" screamed Neluska, paddling away in a frantic manner. "The upas, whose perfume is death! The poison-tree!" 
                      
                     The moon had risen upon desert sands girding a green valley; and, like a rival sun, she poured out yellow rays, as they had been golden showers, upon the air. Nature slept; peace was abroad,-peace in this world of jarring strife, of vanity and of falseness! Thanks for night! Thanks for the one sweet resting-place, where wearied souls may halt and be refreshed, where they may pause in the fierce career of life to think upon heaven, and, by thought, become its like! Without the beautiful night, no love, nor virtue would meet on the earth; nor the green herb, nor the gentle flower, spring around steps in the plain. It is from rest, and from the quiet of darkness, that we drink of the waters of life, and gain that strength which enables us to bear the burden of our being. 
                     Late a leaden sky, an inky waste striped with foam, the black rocks reducing the ship like its Procrustean bed. 
                     But the same breath that so powerfully had smitten in the Typhoon, was merciful. 
                     Amid the slivered fragments of keel, deck and spars, of stove-in casks, shattered cases and all the Eastern wealth which the wild rollers had dispersed like aquatic Huns and Goths, there was one object, as insensible as they to the buffetings, which the billows seemed tenderly to be charged with bearing in to land. 
                     On the whole line of beach, running to the right hand and the left out of view, but two human beings were to be seen. 
                     But one could be called living. 
                     It was a woman, on whose lap was pillowed the head of a man. 
                     The man was Vasco de Gama. 
                     He had been tossed upon shore in a state which seemed to mock the name of life. His pulse, truly, beat; but it was faint as the pulse of a dying child's, and the breath which came over his parched lips would not have stirred the lightest flower, it was so still and gentle. 
                     But he was not to die thus, even this was a mere unit in his vicissitudes. 
                     The beautiful orb was at that moment pursuing its unclouded way across the heaven, and seemed lingering as if to contemplate its reflections on the waters, which the flowing currents shook and played with, but did not disperse-fine contrast to the steady lustre of the satellite. 
                     It was Selika who bent over him. She laid her young cheek upon his lips to feel if life still hung upon them; she took his hands and tried to warm them by chafing them with her own: she called him by his name, adding to it every tenderest epithet. 
                     All these failing, she had recourse to the last trial of all, full of anguish to her heart. 
                     She consented to the seeking to win back the passing spirit by the name which had for him a spell in its very echo, more potent than all the living magic of which she was mistress. 
                     She breathed the name of Inez and then, for the first time, Vasco's cold hand returned the pressure of her own. He sighed, as when one wakes from the mimic death of faintness, and tried, though feebly, to speak to her. 
                     Selika's tears fell fast and thick. 
                     "Not I, but the name, of another, has recalled him to earth!" she thought. "My cares were unavailing, my efforts vain; all was fruitless, till an empty sound-a breath-a word, the shadow of a loved being, passed over his soul. And this was superior to my love!" and she wept again. 
                      
                     Then suddenly starting up she let the sailor's head fall on the sand, and rushed into the thicket, moaning and crying out till the trees seemed to pity her and speak in echo to her woes. 
                     He yet lived! And she, the despised and rejected slave, had come to call him back to the world which was so fast fleeting from him-to the love which, even in dying, he could not forget! He yet lived: and this alone could make her bliss, let the issue be what it would,-let her be scorned for ever. 
                   
                
                
                  CHAPTER X. 
                  THE PARADISE OF THE ORIENT.-VASCO'S CROWN OF DELIGHT.-THE PALACE.-SNATCHED FROM DEATH! 
                  WHEN at length, Vasco de Gama was awakened by the hot sun, he mechanically crawled up out of the reach of the water. 
                  As soon as his mind, more collected, and his eyes, dazzled at first, could view the surroundings, he was filled with pleasure and admiration. 
                  No more the castaway, he only felt the triumph of the moment. 
                  Then he fell upon his knees and offered up his devout gratitude like Columbus over the land, and Balboa over the sea of El Dorado. 
                  At last, he was in a laughing land, one of plenteous splendor like a garden in a dream. 
                  "Hail to you, paradise of earth!" cried he, with clasped hands. 
                  He roamed about slowly, forgetting his fatigue. 
                  At every step a novel sight, with every glance a fresh delight. 
                  The azure sky made his heart ring, as it were. 
                  "Oh, Diaz, gallant heart, how I would that you could have said, like me now: 
                  "Oh! New World, you are mine! I will show my unswerving love for my native land by making you my precious gift-you enormous basket of flowers and spices and sweets! Treasury of marvels, I greet you, as the cowled Italian sighed to salute Beatrice!" 
                  He stooped and kissed a flower here and there. 
                  The blue hills seemed to pierce the brilliant vault for a still more lustrous light. The deep ravines gave repose to the radiance. 
                  The diamonds of fountains rushed from spectral heights of rocky whiteness into deep dark fissures, that seemed to close over them like miser's hands. 
                  The sunbeams stained the ground as they shone through ruddy fruit of plume-boughed trees, and through variegated leaves. 
                  These were wide-petalled plants that held the dew yet on them; or bells that gracefully hung over the grasses. 
                  The young and airy tendrils of creepers and vines waved in every breath of the sleepy zephyr, and played about the branches like pretty snakes. 
                  A different odor, each more exquisite than the last, while the first had intoxicated the wanderer with its deliciousness, stole from each thicket, or where his feet crushed a sprig of buds. 
                  A chattering monkey, flying away from him, dropped a spray of tender blossoms and shining fruit, gleaming among their stalks like eggs of the bird in the fairy tale fast prisoned in a cage of golden bars. 
                  Sometimes when Vasco let a long, lithe bough fly back after he had gone by its lashing would send a shower of nuts or berries pleasantly pattering down upon broad leaves, like summer rain on a marble pavement. 
                  Suddenly the wanderer paused upon a hill side. 
                  In the vale was a palace, well becoming the landscape. 
                  It was such a building as, in ruins now, may be seen throughout India, the ichneumon, vampire bats and the deadly cobra herding in the underground cells, where the people say treasures are, where the remains of murdered captives surely rest. 
                  The front was sculptured into forms of animals and vegetation that the beholder had never seen before. 
                  Over all was the simple grandeur of a magnificent dome. 
                  Vasco descended the slope, and seeing a gateway of the temple and palace open, entered, as if drawn by a spell. 
                  The corridor into which Vasco had entered, was broad and long, and brilliantly lighted by lamps, which hung suspended from the roof by golden cords, wreathed with flowery tendrils. 
                  The caryatides, so to say, were formed of elephant's heads, their placid, solemn look contrasting with the serpents that were represented twisted with their trunks, so that one could not tell where either began or ended. 
                  Lofty pillars, round which twined snakes, supported the painted roof. Formed of that dazzling, rose-coloured granite which is studded with bright crystals, they sparkled, and gave out corruscations, as if they had been gems from the mountain mines; they extended far-a bewildering length of splendour and horror together. For the serpents about the lotus capitals and heavy shafts, seemed to hiss angrily, and dart their forked tongues, as if they were the guardians of the place, watching over the mysteries enshrined within. 
                  Allured more strongly than ever, the mariner left the long aisle behind him and entered a vast hall far higher than the corridor. 
                  The lofty interior dazzled his eyes. 
                  Metals and gems, a handful of which would have delighted a monarch of Christendom, were lavished upon the decorations. 
                  Of gold and silver the frosted roof arched high over head. Held up by large columns of crystal spar, which flashed in the burning light of the thousand colored jewels all around, it put to shame the most elaborate workmanship of man that Vasco had heretofore seen. Bright mosaics gleamed along the sparkling walls; unearthly faces looked down from spandrel, rose, and arch, from corbel and from capital; changing pictures were they, wavering before the eyes-their thousand colours now all blending into one rich rose-light, now diffused in a pale golden hue over the silver roof-and then again that faint ray was broken into its thousand former different tints, which again fashioned out the witching pictures on the walls. And round the columns twined sometimes wreaths of ivy, sometimes garlands of sweet flowers; now snakes with mottled skin and diamond eyes, then forms of children or little men, rudely carved, and horribly, yet with a fascination, intertwined. 
                  Altars were raised at short intervals between the columns, and from them rose up clouds of incense which hung heavily on the air, floating like the white wings of lazy birds basking in the sunshine. 
                  On boards or plates of metal, were vessels of fruit, water of the holy river, and flowers. 
                  These stood before the seeming sovereign of the place, the idol. 
                  It was a rude image as of a seated man. 
                  But it was trebled in head and body, and had many limbs. The eyes were gems of rare purity and size, and appeared to give light around. 
                  Vasco was almost awe-stricken when their rays had the semblance of falling on him. 
                  It was only by an effort that he could make the sign of the cross. 
                  That exertion of belief enabled him to shake off some of the heaviness upon him, coming from the strangeness, the loneliness around, acting upon his weak state of mind and body. 
                  A golden bowl of the river water, an offering to the idol, was at his right hand. He took it up and drank it eagerly. 
                   
                  At the same moment, a door, secretly opening in the pedestal of the idol, gave entrance to a man, whose robe and a species of crown proclaimed him one of the priests. 
                  On seeing the stranger, he was alarmed. 
                  Thanks to the late great shipwreck, a white face was not utterly unknown. 
                  He divined who the intruder was. 
                  Starting back, he dealt a vigorous blow on a gong, and the metallic clang echoed above, around, and in the depths below. 
                  Before Vasco could set down the bowl, he was surrounded by priests and acolytes. 
                  "Profanation!" cried they. 
                  The sailor could make no resistance to so many. 
                  They bound him and flung him on a stone altar, grooved to let the blood flow off. 
                  Then they sounded a most powerful gong. 
                  Its reverberations extended through the doorways, now flung open, and a numerous assemblage poured in. 
                  They were a people like Neluska and Selika. 
                  They were nearly naked, and their forms glowed with the lustre of health and the meridian beauty. 
                  The shining hair of the females fell far down to their waists-curling in light rings, like the youngest and airiest tendrils of the vine, waving in every breath of wind, and playing round their faces like light summer clouds about the shadow of the sun. And a pleasant odour, as from jasmine flowers, stole out from garb, and hair, and drooping wreath. Sprays of tender blossoms dropped among these curling rings, and the fair hair twined in and out, lacing the green stems, and binding round the small cups, and hiding the pointed leaves in their nest of silken threads. 
                  The gauze veils that a few wore were like the fleece of a summer's cloud for delicacy and transparency. 
                  Their small feet were naked, or only thrust into slippers of woven grasses and the silkworm's labors. 
                  They wore ankle-bands, bracelets and necklaces heavy with the purity of the ores.
                   
                  The women showed no more pity than the men, when the priests, in energetic language, harangued them on the enormity of Vasco's offence. 
                  "My sons," said the high-priest, "you know your oath, given out when the birds of the stranger brought the message of Prince Neluska to our threatened homes?" 
                  "Yes," cried all. "We swore that no foreigner, be he whom he might, should with his impure presence stain the holy soil of Hindostan!" 
                  "Yes, and the sacred knife of the sacrificer, or the blessed spear or dart of the faithful have destroyed all who escaped the wrath of our Lord of Storms and the air!" 
                  "Glory to Brahma, Siva and Vishnu!" chorussed every voice of the multitude. 
                  Vasco could hear every word. He understood them, speaking the tongue they used himself. 
                  As he heard the priests' chant, he gave himself up for lost. 
                   
                     O, sun that rises with beams red and angry, 
                     For victims and blood thou dost call, 
                     Prepare we the steel then! make ready the glaive, 
                     And let the loud echo with wild shriek resound. Death! death! 
                     O, Siva! among us descend! 
                     The victims are ready-descend! descend! 
                   
                  The Portuguese shuddered. Not with fear, but at such a wound to his ambition. 
                   
                  To die on the threshold of the temple of Fame, to have but a step or two more to enter the fane, and to be cast down at that moment. 
                  What harder fate than to perish, leaving not a vestige of his achievement, not even his name to be immortalized! 
                  Perhaps Don Alvaro's ships had escaped the typhoon, or some of the viceroy's fleet. They would complete the discovery thereafter, and another Vespucius would wear the wreath that he, great as Columbus, had really won. 
                  But they who would not spare a life, would little care for his future fame. 
                  He could only resign himself to die like a Christian. 
                  As he lay on the stone, he closed his eyes to blot out the spangled roof and imagine the heavens above, while he made his confession to the Power that had preserved him so long that he dared not despair even when the knife was at his heart. 
                  Again the sacrificers' chant resounded. 
                  The sacrificer lifted his steel. 
                  At that instant, there was a confusion at the temple door. 
                  The people turned from the priests and bowed to several persons who entered. 
                  "The queen! the queen!" said they in a low voice. 
                  It was Selika. 
                  Free of even the hint of bondage, now, she was worthy to be the queen of all; the chief for majesty and beauty. She was taller than most; her long hair swept to the ground in rich waves of splendor; and about it drooped flower-wreaths and strings of pearls. Carcanets of precious jewels, of rubies, diamonds, emeralds, and opals, banded her small throat, and zoned her slender waist. 
                  The gauze that floated about her was of even finer materials than that of her followers, and she seemed to glide along in a halo of silver flakes. 
                  On perceiving the strange form on the sacrificial slab, she recognised it, more by instinct than her actual view. 
                  "Stay your hand!" cried she, to the priest who brandished the knife. 
                  At the sound of her voice, Vasco's prayers were interrupted. 
                  "Selika!" murmured he. 
                  He had not imagined that any but he, and perhaps Inez, had reached the shore at all. 
                  He was unaware that the Indians had been astir, and rescued all the Portuguese that floated to land, besides saving their queen and Nelusko. 
                  The steel was lowered in the priest's hand. 
                  "Queen!" said another voice that Vasco knew, "would you save this man from his fate?" 
                  "Yes, Prince Neluska," responded Selika to her companion in an undertone. 
                  "Oh, queen!" exclaimed the high priest. "It is an unknown-a pale face! He has violated the temple, tool You yourself took oath on the Golden Book to preserve the house of the gods from contamination." 
                  "Death! death to the stranger!" yelled the mob. 
                  "You know, oh, queen," proceeded the priest, "that we have not spared the women of this wretch's race that were tossed on the sands." 
                  Vasco moaned. 
                  Inez was lost to him now, beyond recall! 
                  Selika saw the convulsion of agony crossing the mariner's face, and interpreted it aright. It gave her a cruelly poignant pang. 
                  Neluska lifted his hand authoritatively. 
                  "Let the sacrifice proceed," said he. "Death is the only portion for all who enter unallied to us!" 
                  Selika sprang before the speaker. 
                  "And should he prove not to be a stranger!" cried she. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XI. 
                  THE LOVING LIE.-NELUSKA'S OATH.-THE INTERRUPTED CEREMONY.-THE DEPTHS OF THE SUBTERRANIAN. 
                  AT Selika's unexpected declaration, amazement seized her hearers. 
                  Neluska turned pale with suspicion. 
                  Vasco was no less astounded. 
                  "What do you mean?" said he in Portuguese. 
                  The queen leaned to him, and in the same language replied: 
                  "Silence! I wish still to save your life! Forget me afterwards if you will!" 
                  Vasco let his head fall, penetrated as he was by her heart-affecting accents. 
                  "I say," said the queen in a loud voice, "who will harm him, when I aver that he is by a marvel, our brother?" 
                  "Our brother!" repeated the mass. 
                  Neluska felt that the prey was slipping from his grasp. 
                  "Fate," continued Selika, "fate has united by sacred ties my life to his. What will you do now?" 
                  Neluska bit his lip, and darted a furious glance on the woman; but she was smiling tranquilly. 
                  "Oh! she will not dare--" muttered he. 
                  "My people," said the queen, "when I was a slave languishing in a far-off country, that hero saved my life, and more, my honor!" 
                  "The honor of our queen!" 
                  "Yes." 
                  She laid her hand on Neluska's arm. 
                  "Prince," resumed she, "you well know that my hand was the reward of his act." 
                  Neluska was staggered by this appeal to him. 
                  "I, I! I know it?" ejaculated he. 
                  "Prince," she said in an abrupt undertone, "you know I lie. But you know, too, that if he dies, I will seek death with him." 
                  The firm tone, the resolute face, gave Neluska no hope of her relenting. He loved her, spite of all, too deeply to let her slay herself. 
                  Sure of his confirmation, Selika had turned to the high-priest. 
                  "Father," said she, "before ye all, Prince Neluska will attest the truth of my word. The queen is angry at her people, who doubt her single speech!" 
                  On all sides there was shrinking from the beauty's frown. 
                  At a sign from the priest, a novice brought a large volume of thick leaves, gilt letters on blue ground, reverently to his superior. 
                  "Before the gods and over the Golden Book," said the priest. 
                  All had seen Neluska's evident hesitation. But they did not guess how passionately he was enamored of her, and that he well might pause before he should himself yield her to a rival's arms. 
                  The Indians glanced aside at his queen. There was something like tears in her eyes, and her grief and anxiety were plainly visible to him. 
                  Their eyes met. 
                  Before her suppliant gaze, his proud look weakened, and he was overcome. 
                  How often had he been willing to die to possess her, nay, merely to gain a smile from her. 
                  Now, was he fearfully hanging back from the highest proof of his devotion. 
                  He stepped nearer the altar, bowed to the image, and, rising stretched his hand over the volume. 
                   
                  "In the presence of my queen, the priests, fakirs, agras and captains of hundreds," said he in an unshaken voice, "I swear that she does love him and that he is her husband!" 
                  All bowed to the white man. 
                  But he felt no pride at the alliance thrust upon him. 
                  Of the blood that he came from, he revolted at the bare idea of mingling that current with the sunburnt. 
                  He would have spoken, but Selika made him a sign. 
                  In his language, she uttered some hasty words. 
                  "Pardon the falsehood," said she. "It is a woman's readiest shield. You may consent to the nuptuals, for you, the bridegroom, will be free as the birds. You may launch a canoe and seek to rejoin your friends. All the great ships may not be lost." 
                  He said nothing. 
                  The high priest had commanded silence. 
                  "It is well," said he. "We will envoke the venerated deities. This tie, formed under the cold skies of a strange world, must be again solemnized!" 
                  Vasco would have spoken this time, but the Hindostanee's appealing eyes were upon him. 
                  The priests moved about with many gesticulations, crying out: 
                  "Kneel, ye people, to the Sacred Three, whose mystic words of wisdom great Brahma did himself give on that marble slab! Oh, Brahma! Hail, Siva and Vishni!" 
                  All bowed the knee. 
                  Alone among the thousands, Vasco kept erect. 
                  Yet there was so much deep feeling and faith revealed by the movement of the obedient mass, that he was almost ashamed that he had no reverence for the power seemingly so mighty. 
                  It was strange to see him crossing himself and murmuring a prayer, the single upright figure under the dome. 
                  As all rose, and the priests made hasty preparations for the nuptuals, Vasco shrank away, and to the wall. 
                  Selika followed him, her eyes downcast. 
                  Neluska trembled with rage to see the couple in that partial privacy. 
                  Fanished, exhausted, the perfumes, the blaze of decorations, the naked limbs, polished and glowing with the hot blood of the East, to be seen at every glance. Vasco was steeped to the soul in a sensuous intoxication that he had never known before. 
                  Nearly his whole life spent in battling with the sea, his leisure had found its rapturous calm only in remembrance of Inez. 
                  His love for her was as an adoration for a star, pure and steady in its fervent light. 
                  And now, he first saw the incitives of a passion heretofore unknown, a flame of gross fire, not the starry beam. 
                  "I have told you, senor," said the queen, her voice being more and more attuned, so that she tempted him without her own will, almost, "I told you that this is a mere form. To-morrow-to-day, when you will, you can leave me here to mourn." 
                  "To mourn," repeated Vasco, leaning against the wall, and pressing his cheek to it, to gain some coolness. 
                  She looked at him reproachfully. 
                  "Do you not know how one may love and suffer, and die of such agony?" 
                  "Oh! have I been mistaken all this time," muttered the Portuguese. 
                  He recalled a thousand little kindnesses towards the late captive. Undoubtedly, she had magnified them into advances of a love for her. 
                   
                  "Oh!" cried he, "what veil has hidden your true heart from me?" 
                  "What veil?" repeated she. "The veil of scorn!" 
                  "No!" said he. 
                  "Yes. The paler face, the taller form, the colder, slower speech!" 
                  "No!" said he quickly. "You are wrong. There is scarcely a human form so beauteous as yours!" 
                  She had let her scarf fall to her waist, but half pretending to cloud one dusky breast. 
                  Her arms, and feet, set off by the broad bands of gold, tinkled their ornaments as she waved them alluringly. 
                  Vasco felt his breath thicken, and his eyes were clouded like a man's in a fever. He tried to say: "Oh, heaven help me!" but the words recoiled from his lips, too hot to pronounce them properly. 
                  The priests advanced, and the high priest came to take the hands of the betrothed. 
                  The handmaids of the queen prepared the flowers that had been hastily brought into the temple, for a blossomed pathway to the altar. 
                  In the midst of that silence, Vasco stretched out his arms to embrace Selika. 
                  She leaned on tiptoe to be enfolded by him. 
                  There, he was arrested, turned to stone. 
                  A sound, utterly different than any of those round about him, had come to his ear. 
                  His ear was near the wall. 
                  It must have been hollow there, for the sound came from the depths below. 
                  Only at that place could anything be heard. 
                  And, besides, it was so faint, that only Vasco, who knew the song, could have distinguished it. 
                  It was clear; the voice of Inez, beneath the temple floor, or in the wall, was mournfully repeating the navigator's own serenade. "Farewell, ye shores of Tagus!" 
                  Vasco felt the glitter lose its effect on him. His strength of mind returned to him; like Samson granted his might anew, after he had sinned likewise. 
                  Inez was not dead, or, if she were, that was a warning of her spirit! 
                  He strode past Selika and into the centre, under the dome. 
                  In a voice made slow by the unusual language, but making every word tell, he burst forth: 
                  "This mockery shall not be! I love another, and not your queen! She is a heathen, and I could not wed her; if my heart were free. Do with me what you will! May heaven forgive you for slaying one who has devoted his life to discovering you, and piloting the priests of the true faith to your homes." 
                  A scream of rage broke out from men and women. The former drew cresses, and waved such other weapons as had been brought within the temple. 
                  "Death to him! death--whoever he is! if only for this insult to our queen!" 
                  A hundred arms were lifted against the Portuguese. 
                  Never martyr of science, religion, love, stood more calmly in the face of death. 
                  Selika had swooned. 
                  Prince Neluska had caught her last words. 
                  "Even yet, he must live!" 
                  He flung himself into the thickest of the group. 
                  "He shall die!" cried he, loud as any, "but, stay! A long agony for him, not a sudden rending of life!" 
                  That suited their tigerish natures better. 
                  "Let him lie in the depths of the subterranean," said Neluska, "until the high priest and the princes decide on the torment proper for the wretch!" 
                   
                  In a square pit, darker and drearier than even the Inquisition, they put the Portuguese. 
                  He who might have been a sovereign over a people, was less than a log now. 
                  He was to expiate the crime of constancy. 
                  But one thing was in his heart, though. 
                  Inez was alive. 
                  No doubt, immured in a cell like this. 
                  She could only have been set apart from the massacre by the pleading of her superior beauty. 
                  Vasco groaned at the thought. 
                  If he had done wrong by even hesitating, by yielding one moment to the charms of the Indian Queen, he had full leisure for calmness and repentance. 
                  But, as yet, his heart beat too full for the stillness of reflection. 
                  He cared not for himself, he cared only for Inez, and for their mutual separation. 
                  Were she safe, or were they to perish together, their souls breathed out in one last long embrace, the proud ones might do their worst, and he could smile at their tortures. 
                  But alone-she perhaps suffering degradation or punishment which made the blood clot through his veins as he thought-he to be slain, and leave her thus alone and defenceless, when but an hour's space might give them both joy and life for ever-it was not cowardice which forced that heavy sigh-it was not cowardice which blanched his cheek and darkened his full eye! 
                  Possibly the ships of Alvaro were in the offing. 
                  If the shore could be reached, a bundle of reeds would sustain them. 
                  Better that ocean which lulled the seaman one day to buffet him the next, than the far more treacherous Hindoos. 
                  But he was in a dungeon, and trussed like a fowl. 
                  To be powerless, when every nerve is strained and every vein pulsing with eagerness to act and defend-to be bound, when the wild heart is speeding on its way with the swiftness of the falcon's flight-to be chained, when the arm would raise and strike home-oh! surely hell hath no greater torment-surely the antique judge of the Infernal Regions, when he wound the snake round him to tell how many cycles a doom was to last, was less cruel than Vasco's fate! he groaned; "even now thy shrieks are penetrating through the thick walls of this loathsome cell! Even now I hear the hissing of thy crimson blood, as the heated iron tears thy tender flesh!-even now I see thee, beautiful and beloved! kneel at the feet of thy executioners, and pray them for mercy-in vain! Thy voice could charm a star from its course, but may not move these ruthless souls to pity." 
                  So time passed. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XII. 
                  NELUSKA'S VENGEANCE.-PORTUGAL TO THE RESCUE!-AT THE OUTLET. 
                  VASCO made incredible efforts to get at his bonds, of a coarse but strong rope, with his teeth. 
                  He rolled about the floor, but it was plain earth, and not a stone offered a jagged edge. 
                  Compelled to wait, he waged a perpetual struggle between the energy of his wishes and his utter powerlessness of frame. 
                  In the midst of this misery, there came foot steps, and a whispering at the door. 
                  That opening, there entered a man and a woman with a light. 
                   
                  The man was a young Hindoo, and in the priest's garb. 
                  The female was that same pouting-lipped, bright-eyed girl whom Vasco had noticed more than once, the attendant of his mistress. 
                  When the high priest had seen Neluska set aside the Lady Inez for future disposal, he had hurried off Donna Ana to similar seclusion. 
                  The pretty Portuguese had spent her time and little arts in corrupting the boy who brought her food. 
                  She had not only procured her release, but induced the youth to guide her to the cell of Vasco. 
                  This she had done, assuring him that the Portuguese sailor wore about him an amulet of rare value, a charm to give long life to those that truly loved (looking so bewitchingly at the poor fool the while), a talisman highly important, in a word. 
                  And now, the girl leaned over the prisoner. 
                  Her conversation with Selika on board the Valle de Carjaval had taught her the Hindoo's language, but he knew nothing of her tongue. 
                  "Hope! all's well!" said she to cheer up the captive. 
                  While pretending to search for the charm, Vasco felt that his bonds were being severed. 
                  Poor little priestling! In that embrace that the pale-face woman had let him snatch, he had not perceived that she had taken his knife away. 
                  The instant she had cut the seaman loose, Ana sprang upon the Indian, holding the light. 
                  Vasco, too, was up on his feet as soon as the blood began to flow again and he could use his cramped limbs. 
                  In a twinkling, he had secured the boy with the cord that fell from him, and tied him, too, in a professional manner that augered ill for a brief continuance in bonds. 
                  Out into a dark corridor sallied the navigator and his deliverer. 
                  She had a long story to tell, of the horribly gloating looks of the priests, of the threats of the future in their every look and sign, and of the persecutions of the high-priest, an old man who was revolting to her. 
                  She had to tell Vasco, too, of Inez. 
                  The latter had been parted from her some time. Neluska had menaced the high-priest for disputing the prince's right to the captive of so much beauty. 
                  Vasco, in his reflections, had touched upon the keynote. 
                  At this moment, as the two hesitated in the darksome labyrinth of crossing vaults, a sound of footsteps in some number alarmed them. 
                  As for Donna Ana, her powers had been tasked immeasurably during the last score of hours, beside the shipwreck's direful events. 
                  As the footsteps drew nearer, Vasco found that the camerista drew more and more closely to him. 
                  It was clear that she was going to suffer a fit of hysteria as payment for her resistance to nature's behests. 
                  The two were pressing close to the wall. 
                  The footsteps came on. 
                  "'Sh!" said Vasco to the girl. 
                  But her fears were uncontrollable. 
                  Another moment. 
                  "Oh, we are lost!" exclaimed the girl, uttering a faint cry, as she fell into the sailor's arms deprived of motion and of life. 
                  Embarrassed with the fainting maiden, and too well suspecting the hidden dangers of the temple to trust himself to a rapid flight along paths whose every step might plunge him into some abyss, or entomb him in some treacherous cell, Vasco stood for a brief space irresolute. 
                  Yet to remain was inevitable death; to proceed might give the chance of salvation, alone. 
                   
                  The glimmer of flambeaux on the damp walls was growing more and more bright. 
                  Vasco glanced around. 
                  His eyes, doubting the nearness of some of the various secret springs, whose existence was known only to the initiated, caught the glitter of a bronze nail, the presence of which, in a stone, indicated a door of masonry work. 
                  They were now within the glare of torches, though hitherto concealed by an angle of the wall. A few seconds more, and they must be discovered. 
                  The muffled tread came closer-the hushed voices grew more distinct. 
                  As his last resource, Vasco turned the nail, and a door of stone-work opened. He vaulted through, still bearing the young girl in his arms. The stones rolled back, and the sailor heard the tread of the train as it swept past on their way. 
                  "I will go myself," said a voice, as the masked door was passed. "And now for my vengeance!" 
                  It was Neluska. 
                  Vasco imagined the worst from those words of incomplete sense. 
                  The Indian prince was last, and his step was heavy with his purpose. 
                  Vasco cautiously opened the door. 
                  He was only in time to see the end of the train of priests disappearing around the turning. 
                  Vasco half suspected how Neluska, on the long passage, seeing Inez daily, had had his feelings diverged from Selika and directed towards the Portuguese lady. 
                  Vasco turned to his companion. 
                  "Senora Ana," said he, "We must find your lady at once. You have the strength?" 
                  "I am better now," said the serving woman. "My fears were silly. But I am ready to face the wretches." 
                  At the end of that tunnel, the line branched off. 
                  There was no sound on either side. 
                  "We must part," said Vasco. "Keep you the dagger, I will meet the villains with my hands alone in such a cause, with confidence. You will call if you are endangered. God help us!" 
                  "God help us!" repeated the camerista, taking the right hand vault. 
                  She had lost sight of the Portuguese, going in the opposite direction. 
                  She overcame the sinking of her heart and resolutely groped along the wall, pausing to listen, and to knock at each indentation that seemed to be a door. 
                  All of a sudden, as her hand was lifted to strike on a stone, she heard the well-known voice of her mistress. 
                  Inez was now speaking, in high proud tones, words bitter and painful to the soul of him whom she addressed, and him Ana knew to be Neluska. 
                  "And now she must be saved!" thought Ana. 
                  Her weapon, one of those short keen knives for which the Orient is so famous; knives that the weakest hand might use, and with effect, they are so sharp and so penetrating in their power. 
                  Again she stole to the door of the cell, and again she listened, as though her soul was in each nerve, for the words which might fall. 
                  But for a time all was silence; a silence broken only by a few suppressed sobs; and once a low moan, as of one in extreme pain. 
                  She knew then that her lady was alone. 
                  Cautiously she unslid the wooden pin which served as the bolt, when the quick opening of a door on the other side startled her into inaction, and the voice of Neluska froze her blood with horror. It seemed to be a peculiarity belonging to the Indian, this power of his to create a nameless dread and disgust; as noxious reptiles carry their earnest of danger in their repellant power. 
                   
                  "Wilt thou accept my love, fair Inez?" asked the prince, in tones half harsh, half entreating. 
                  "Thy love maddens me with its name alone," cried the Portuguese, almost frantically. "Wouldst thou see me dead before thee? If not, cease this loathsome word!" 
                  "Thou art warm, my beautiful one, and yet I do not chide thee; for the soul which can hate the most fiercely, can also love the most ardently. I have seen the tame and gentle woman who will suffer any affection-even the most hated-and yet she could never use such words as thou, most beautiful, hast used to a love to which, in thy turn, thou wilt learn to respond." 
                  "Wouldst thou test my strength?" cried the lady. It seemed to Ana as though she had forcibly repulsed the wretch. "I am weak; yet I have such strength from heaven as shall enable me to overmaster thee, base wicked traitor to my lord!" 
                  "Dost thou brave me?" asked the prince, in a peculiarly still, concentrated tone. 
                  "I do!" the lady cried. Then she flung herself against the wall, and folding her hands upon her bosom, stood proudly eyeing the Hindoo. 
                  Neluska bit his lip. 
                  "The chain, and the prison, and the executioner, shall teach thee obedience and humility," he said with a dark frown. "I am not a child, that I should weep over the loss of the fairest maid the pale-faces earth ever bore. I love thee; and I proffer thee that love. Thou dost refuse. Good-but thou shalt abide by thy refusal. I will not now control thee by other than force." 
                  And as he uttered the last word, he would have thrown round her a chain, heavy and rusted, which he held in his hand, but Ana suddenly opened the door, and stood before them. 
                  Pale, wild, full of the horror woman only could have felt so strongly for the contemplated crime, she looked more like the ghost of one suddenly murdered in her morning of life, than as if the full tide of that life yet flowed through her veins. 
                  She had slightly wounded her hand with the knife, and the blood which trickled from the wound had stained her robe. 
                  There was a fire in her large eyes, which told the Hindoo that danger was at hand; and instinctively, as one who shrinks from an angry lioness, though caged, Neluska trembled before her, though he counted her strength as nothing. 
                  "Save yourself, my lady!" cried the handmaid, "through this door-through the passage-fly! Away-away: I will keep you harmless! Away! Thou art hazarding Vasco in delay." 
                  That word had a magical effect. Inez hurried to the door; she would have passed through it, but a slight cry of pain from her deliverer made her halt and look back. 
                  There lay Ana in the grasp of the Indian. 
                  His hand was on her delicate throat-his fingers were strangling, in their foul gripe, the marble flesh. Not all her youth, not all her beauty, not one softened remembrance of her kindness to him on shipboard, not a breath of admiration for her high daring, could still the busy fiend in the heart of Neluska. He had the enemy in his power; and he would end her bold thwarting him forever. 
                  Now, Inez, do thy work. 
                  Now think upon thy own, and, for gratitude and deliverance, perform the sin, which the weaker virtue of humanity might not grant! 
                  She came near to them; but though she felt that all depended on the salvation of that frail girl-though her every feeling revolted against the prince, and she had not even calmness, as the cause to hold her hands-though she herself had been stung to the quick, and had felt that his death, alone, could buy her self-respect again-yet, for all that, she could not imbrue her hands in blood! She saw the gleaming knife within the vest of Donna Inez; and she knew that one blow would end her sorrows and her trials for ever. But, honor to her womanhood! she hesitated in the commission of a crime for which there is nor reparation nor repentance. 
                  But, the next moment with a quick and sudden turn, Inez drew forth the knife, and plunged it to the hilt into his breast. 
                  He groaned, staggered, and fell; and his blood wetted the woman's feet. 
                  "Come, come, my lady!" cried the girl, dragging away her mistress, who was horror-stricken at the result of her blow. "Vasco is awaiting!" 
                  It was a miracle that in their precipitate flight, they took the right direction. 
                  To the joy of both, they saw, in the figure that hurriedly approached them, the navigator himself. 
                  "Joy!" said he. "There's no time for words. I turned back, because there were people that way." 
                  With all the speed that they were capable of, the three fugitives, rushed through the dark passages. 
                  Vasco took the lead, to meet first whatever perils might pays the way. 
                  At the end of the tunnel that they were now running through, a light appeared that Vasco gladly recognised as that of day. 
                  They quickened their pace, if that were possible. 
                  When they came out of the passage, they found themselves on the side of the hill, which was between them and the temple. 
                  A sudden sound attracted their eyes to the wide expanse of sunlit ocean. 
                  It was a cannon-shot. 
                  "The Vittoria," said Vasco, clasping his hands. "The ship of Admiral Don Alvaro." 
                  A vessel was in sight. 
                  Her shattered masts and scant sail betrayed that she had experienced the lash of the cyclone. 
                  But the shot that she had fired, half in rejoicing at sight of land, half to call to her the three other sail that loomed up on the horizon, was audible to Indians as well as to the fugitives. 
                  Presently the latter heard the great gong of the temple resounding. 
                  As the ships drew nearer, the beach was covered with Indians. 
                  The three Portuguese were forced to submit to bondage anew. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIII. 
                  A BATTLE OF LOVES. 
                  SELIKA was on her throne. 
                  Her features were discomposed, for many emotions were struggling within her. 
                  Her thoughts were almost apparent on her brow, each in its order. 
                  Now pity, then stern resentment. 
                  Her indignation prompted her to ordain death to Inez, and then, by force, by drugs, by any means, compel Vasco to be her consort for one night, and then be wed to death in the morning. 
                  What joy for the vindictive mind to see his corpse, drained of 
                        heac
                        each
                      of blood, hung up in the air, or flung on the mire for the jackal and hyena to feast upon, and the vultures to rend. 
                  In this mood, she abruptly issued an order. 
                   
                  The guards led Inez into the chamber. 
                  Selika waved her hand, and the two women were alone. 
                  The Portuguese, paler than was her wont, had the proudest of looks. Her brown cheeks, thinned by the wreck and the prison, were gradually flashing into brightness. Her eyes had the blaze no less lustrous than ever before. 
                  The Indian, of the metallic hue, had fixed her features in an implacable cast, which gave her the aspect of a Sphynx enraged-as much of the lioness as of the woman. Her voice, too, had the ring of bronze. 
                  Inez was the first to speak. 
                  "Senora," said she, "I see, by your face, that you are going to be merciless. Yet I ask you a favor. All the joy of this world has fled me, grief alone is mine. Let all your anger, well founded, no doubt, you think, let all fall on me." 
                  She did not bow as if to the stroke, but preserved her erectness of position, but she did not smile tauntingly either. It was merely resignation, complete and affecting. 
                  Selika, viewing that figure, matchless as her own in its species of loveliness, could not help feeling that the cause of her bitter woe rested in her heart alone. 
                  "You hesitate," said Inez. "As further mercy, quick punishment for loving where I could not help adoring. Death is boon to me." 
                  "Your lord, Don Pedro, is dead," said Selika. 
                  "I have heard so, yes," replied the Portuguese. "His scheming brain is at rest at last. But the custom of my country compels a wife to show respect to a deceased husband. I know your thought, your ignorance. Vasco was seized with me, true, but he had delivered me from the dungeon." 
                  "That was all?" 
                  Their eyes met. 
                  "That was all," rejoined the Portuguese. 
                  "If Vasco had become my husband?" said Selika. 
                  "The griefs I have been plunged into would have been all the deeper. I would have had to despair of him, for he is no less slave of honor than myself. But he has not wed you?" 
                  "Alas! Some charm, some spell made him throw off the intention just as it was gladdening me. Oh, heaven, teach me how to forget that disappointment and to end my sorrow." 
                  Inez repeated the Indian's prayer. 
                  The queen's features had relaxed and softened into a kindly expression, although still mournful. 
                  The furious dictates of imperious repining no longer swayed her senses. And something like a stupor, with repentance tinging it, had succeeded her consuming fever. 
                  The attitude of the Portuguese lady, quiet, patient, hopeful where she should not have been expectant, aided her to recover peace of mind. 
                  So plainly did her ungoverned countenance reveal each thought of the Hindoo, that the watcher could trace the wavering between hate and pity. 
                  Selika thought of a sweeter vengeance than the gross one of double murder to the lovers, a vengeance that would lift up the load from her tortured heart. 
                  The other was praying mutely, more for the queen to be softened than for herself. 
                  Twice Selika lifted her hand, armed with a golden mace, to strike a signal sheet of metal. 
                  But each time her intention changed. 
                  "I dare not see him by my side, by her side, no no!" moaned he. "Oh, better as I think." 
                  She sounded the gong. 
                   
                  Neluska and several of the fantastically apparelled guard quickly responded. 
                  "Prince," said Selika, "that woman and Vasco de Gama will be placed in a proa and taken off to that ship in sight. Have a fire kindled to attract the stranger. Tell Vasco that his people must not attempt a landing, for we will perish to the last before an ounce of gold or a grain of diamond shall reward the avaricious race!" 
                  "It is well, queen." 
                  "You will accompany the pale-faces yourself, and guard them as you would my life." 
                  "Yes, queen." 
                  "Neluska." 
                  She leaned towards him, and laid her hand on his arm, whispering in his ear, 
                  "I believe you never blamed me because the Gods in cruelty adjudged my heart to the stranger, who coldly spurns it. Prince Brahma may have all the more immense reward for the sufferers like us above in the Temple of Serene Joy." 
                  They understood, close to one another as they were, so close that each other's reflected image was in their eyes. 
                  "Then, beloved queen of mine, this is a happy day. Your power and your glory will revive, now that your heart is unshackled." 
                  "My soul shall be without the fetters, at least," replied the Indian. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIV. 
                  THE PASSING AWAY OF JOY.-UNDER THE UPAS SHADE. 
                  UP on the cliffs, overhanging the shore. 
                  The whole hill, as if once enveloped in lightning, was blasted for a wide circle around 
                  At the outermost edge, a few plants strove to live, breathing poison in the dew, air and earth. Their sickly existence was more melancholy than the actual dead. 
                  Not even the snake dared to enter within the unholy limits. No bird passed over it however high in air. 
                  All around was beauty. An oasis of the world, and yet this plague-spot, a carcanet of gems but a flaw on one. 
                  Ghastly above all, were the innumerable skeletons that strewed the deathly ground. 
                  Criminals were here thrust, the pariah of humanity to this pariah of Edens, and under the fatal leaves of the manchineels the end quickly came. 
                  For one tree, green and flourishing lived on the noisome air that it diffused. 
                  At night the blossoms expanded and emitted a perfume that made the breeze shudder that bore it. In the day, the petals fell and rotted away with an odor yet more mortal. 
                  It was amazing, then, to see one figure, stealing from the far-off village, hurrying to the grove of upas trees. 
                  No guards to compel the wretch to rush into the embrace once clasped, never unfolded. 
                  Still it hastened on. 
                  Soon it had ascended the slope, and scarcely paused when the emanations first oppressed it. 
                  Under the vault of darksome foliage waving like cypress over head, the figure passed. 
                   
                  Its steps went straight on, crushing a bone here and there when there was no easy avoidance of it. 
                  When the summit had been reached, the figure stopped. 
                  With a quick action, it drew the thick veil from its face, and it was, not a phantom, but Selika who stood in the domain of terror. 
                  Calmly she scanned the mighty ocean, infinite as her misery. Its long rollers coming in on the strand, had a resonant melody long and flowing, like the beating of her breaking heart. 
                  A far off, was a ship, her masts as one, and soon to be hull down. 
                  Her eyes were on it, as the astronomer's on an occulting star. 
                  The Indian Queen had renounced her absolute sceptre, her gorgeous palaces, to seek repose everlasting and oblivion under that darkness, deeper than that of a mausoleum. 
                  She had won in her contest with self. 
                  Every idea of hate had forsaken her, one by one, like a caravan of evil trailing away from a purified mosque. 
                  Her heart was no longer racked by envious desire. 
                  She had forgiven Vasco, and come thus to say farewell. 
                  As she gazed, a splendor gradually lit up the distant horizon, and the ship seemed to swim on the silvered sea, as if to enter the great rim of the moon. 
                  To Selika, her vision intoxicated by the aroma of the scarlet buds, unconsciously taken up in her hands, that sight was magnified into a mystic apparition. 
                  A pleasure she had never known before, ravished her senses, and made her heart bound with delight. 
                  The enchantment opened the skies to her as if the clouds were gates of heaven. 
                  The sudden change in the vessel's course, as it met the sea-breeze and had to set the sails, caused the dazzled queen to imagine a return of the loved. 
                  With an effort she rose, for the excess of her emotion had exhausted her, and clinging to one of the trees, she waved her veil. 
                  A cloud, or a smoke from a cannon of the ship, seemed to float over the moon's face like an answer. 
                  Vasco and his betrothed, were bidding farewell to the land. 
                  When he came again, it was to subdue the paradise, and realize his dreams. 
                  As the cloud expanded, and thus seemed to approach, Selika lifted her hands in gratitude. 
                  "He comes!" she shrieked in delirium. "He has not forgotten me! He comes-oh, Vasco comes!" 
                  She opened her arms, leaped forward and seemed about to embrace some form. 
                  At the brink of the cliff she was arrested as if the genius of the upas had plucked the fugitive back by the rob. 
                  She tottered, and fell under the manchineel never to rise again. 
                  She had indeed seen something more than a cloud speeding shoreward from the ship of Don Alvaro, departing with the Portugue. 
                  It was Neluska's proa, returning from a faithful accomplishment of his mission. 
                   
                  As the sun arose in glory, Nelusko, who had spent the night in searches for the missing majesty of the land, was told of the white-veiled sleeper on the height, beneath the upas. 
                  No one could restrain him. 
                  Slowly and firmly, he took the path that the queen had used the night before. 
                   
                  The Indians saw him reach the corpse, unfold the scarf that she had instinctively drawn over her form, and kiss her cold lips. 
                  In the act, the poisonous vapor, rising from the dewy ground at the rise of the sun, seemed to strike him as by lightning. 
                  They knew now how the two hearts had sought for the love and the happiness beyond death that they had never known this side of it. 
                
               THE END. 
             
             
               FIRST LOVE. 
               SHE had a magnificent figure, lithe and full of grace, eyes large and luminous; a complexion denoting health, and a mouth the sweetest ever seen. I often used to wonder how she contrived to look so truly modest and good with all this dazzling beauty about her. Many another girl possessing such charms as hers would have been a flirt, or too conceited to be natural. But Rosetta Blandford was devoid of artifice, and simple almost as a child. 
               We were both of us poor. I had my way to win in the world, while she was toiling at home, a household drudge-a slave to her younger brothers and sisters. 
               I saw her first in a cotton gown, busily engaged in weeding the little garden in front of her father's door. It was a bright day in the middle of June, and the clustering roses were all around her, she, the fairest and loveliest of them all. 
               Her father, who was a schoolmaster, had taught Rosetta to read and to write, and there her education stopped. But the dear girl was naturally intelligent and reflective, and her mind gradually became stored with plenty of useful knowledge. 
               It matters nothing to you how we first become acquainted with each other. I visited her father's house daily, and Rosetta and I, seeing much of one another, learned to love. 
               Now, before I had seen Rosetta, I had given my word of honour to my father that I would never speak to any woman on the subject of love until I was able to earn my own livelihood, and had a home to give her. Hence it was that I never uttered a syllable of the feelings which were stirring in my heart, swelling it almost to burst. 
               But notwithstanding my silence, she understood my sentiments: she knew that she was most precious to me, that I prized her more than the whole world besides. 
               Oh, how happy we were together in these our sunny days! My eyes told her the tale my lips dared not utter, and her bright orbs responded kindly modestly, yet withal ardently, to my utmost wishes. 
               My uncle, who was a civil engineer, desired me to study his business; and for that purpose it was arranged that I should forthwith leave home, and become an inmate under my kinsman's roof. 
               My uncle lived in London, which was a hundred and seventy miles distant from Incely, which was the place of my birth, the village in which Rosetta Blandford lived. 
               When I parted from her, the tears were streaming down her cheeks, and her sweet voice was choking with emotion. She gave me a rosebud, and bade me keep it for her sake. 
               I have religiously obeyed her injunction. Forty years have gone by since I have received that bud, yet still it is in preservation; not in its original state of freshness, but in dust and ashes. 
               Alas, alas, for the dreams of our youth. 
                
               Have patience with an old man's regrets, and pardon his loquacity. 
               Well, I went to London, and with Rosetta's image constantly before my mind's eye, I worked from early morn to dewy eve, never weary of my labors, thinking they would some day bring me closer to her. 
               I wrote to her often-such letters as a man would write to his sister-and she answered me in the self same style. And in this way a whole year glided away. I was hopeful and happy, and dreamed not of any disappointment. 
               At the end of the twelvemonth my uncle called me to his study, and spoke the following words: 
               "Robert Asherton, you have done well-better than well. Here is a gold watch, which I wish you to accept as a mark of my regard; and here is also a ten-pound note, which will enable you to visit your parents-my brother and his good wife-who are blessed in having such a son as yourself." 
               I took the watch out of my uncle's hands, and tried to tender him my grateful thanks for it, but my voice refused to make itself heard, and I could only burst into tears-tears of thankfulness and joy. 
               I went back to Incely, full of happy thoughts and blissful hopes. I was about to look upon Rosetta again, I thought, and my whole soul was overflowing with rapture and delight. 
               Now, as I was walking to Rosetta's cottage, a sudden thought came into my mind. I had promised my father never to speak to a girl on the subject of love until I was in a position to offer her a home. Very well; but I had not pledged myself that I would not speak to her mother on the matter. Ah! and chuckling within myself, I soon arrived at my beloved one's dwelling. 
               With trembling hands I unfastened the garden gate. I felt so weak, a little child might have knocked me down. Presently I reached the house door, and pulled the bell. I was admitted by a servant-maid instead of by Rosetta. 
               A sudden chill fell upon my heart. 
               Heavens! how the place was changed! how it was decorated! There was a velvet-covered arm-chair in the sitting-room, and there was also a fine sofa, on which I found reclining Rosetta's father, wrapped in a new dressing-gown. 
               Then in walked Mrs. Blandford, in a lace cap, and a satin dress. 
               I stared about me in surprise and bewilderment. I was expecting to see Rosetta herself appear robed expensively. 
               "Why, what on earth is the matter here?" I asked, scarcely knowing what to say, and gazing around me. 
               "Oh, haven't you heard yet, Robert?" Mrs. Blandford smilingly returned. 
               "Haven't I heard what?" I rejoined, feeling very uncomfortable and beginning to dread I knew not what. 
               "Why, that Rosetta is going to be married." 
               "Married!" I echoed, a mist before my sight, the room appearing to spin round and round. 
               "To whom?" I stammered, sinking into the nearest chair. 
               "To Mr. Haywood, the rich cotton-spinner, of Manchester," Mrs. Blandford answered, in a proud tone "Oh! she is a most fortunate girl to secure such a husband for herself. And he's so generous," continued Rosetta's mother, pointing to the new furniture about the room. "My sons are to be taken into his counting-house, and no more trouble are we ever to know." 
               Mrs. Blandford would have gone on in this strain, had she not perceived my excited state, which I could not conceal from observation. I think she guessed at the condition of my feelings, and was delicate enough to spare me further torture. 
               I returned home with a bowed head and a loaded heart. What was my success to me now? Of what worth was my uncle's praise, or the gold watch he had given me? Alas-alas! Rosetta was lost to me, and every object was valueless to me now. 
                
               I was so completely miserable, I thought it utterly impossible that I could live. I was so crushed by my unexpected disappointment, that I prayed to die and be at peace for ever. For whole hours I used to sit thinking of Rosetta-of her whom I should never be permitted to smile on more. 
               I saw my darling at church on the following Sunday: her intended husband was with her. She was dressed very richly; but, to my mind, looked lovelier far when attired in one of those cotton gowns I used to see her wear. 
               Mr. Haywood was a broad-faced man, neither old nor young, nor even good looking. I looked at him jealously-I was ready to strangle him there and then, so frenzied was I in these my hours of trouble. 
               I looked at Rosetta's face and marked its alteration. Her eyes were dim and heavy, her cheeks pallid; and there was, besides, a weariness in her gait which I never saw till now. 
               I regarded her with pity, for I knew that my poor darling was unhappy-that she had been drawn into this matrimonial engagement-drawn into it by her own parents. 
               As she was quitting the church she suddenly espied me, and, pausing, beckoned me towards her. She looked quite excited now, and more like her own dear self. 
               Hardly knowing what I was about, I gained her side. She received me with her old smile of welcome, and introduced me to Mr. Haywood. 
               "You are going our way, Robert," she observed, in her simple, natural manner. "Let us walk on together." 
               And we did so: her parents following us all the way. Mr. Haywood was only on a visit to his betrothed, their wedding was fixed to take place at the end of the ensuing week. 
               I do not exactly remember how I conducted myself on that painful occasion: I fancy my behavior was brusque and unkind to her, and that I spoke sneering to Mr. Haywood. 
               And what wonder if such were the case! I was smarting under the pangs of disappointed love, and was not accountable for anything I did. 
               She asked me many questions concerning myself, but my replies conveyed to her but little information. I marvelled how she could speak to me at all, and I forthwith condemned her as one of the most fickle of her sex. 
               Once or twice I saw her glance at me with quivering features, as if some painful thoughts were just then passing through her mind, and something like a sigh escaped her white lips. 
               She was wretched, utterly wretched, I was sure of it; her silken robes rustling and glistening about her, could not hide the mournful fact. 
               Well, would you credit that at last I actually suffered Mr. Haywood to be civil to me? I seemed to have no will of my own while I was breathing the same atmosphere as Rosetta. At one moment I thought I would return to London, in the next, I felt that, although she was affianced to another, I could not at present command courage enough to quit her sight. 
               I knew that, notwithstanding she was about to become Mr. Haywood's wife, she loved me, and only me, and I was wicked enough to feel a sort of a malicious pleasure in contemplating that fact. I was unlike Mr. Haywood in every respect, and I thanked heaven that I was so. I was young; I was tall, well-made, and handsome, and my natural disposition was as as cheerful as that of a lark. 
               One day, meeting her walking by herself, I, with the privilege of the past, turned, and walked on by her side. I was embarrassed, so also was she, and, neither of us spoke a word for some time. She was the first to break silence. "Robert," she began, hesitatingly, her sweet voice sounding in my ear sweeter than ever,-"Robert, will you not wish me happiness with the man they have chosen for my husband?" 
                
               I answered never a word. I felt choking. 
               "He has been so very good to my parents, Robert; he will provide for their latter days." 
               Still I made no reply. I was wishing myself at the bottom of the Atlantic; for, at this moment, I loved her more fondly than ever. 
               Well, Rosetta went on talking, and I listening, until we reached her own door; then she asked me whether I intended to come in and see her parents. 
               "Not to-day, Rosetta," I rejoined, hardly able to keep my voice steady. "God bless you, Rosetta, and make you very happy," I added, fairly bursting into tears. 
               Then, before she could say anything in the way of a response, I was half a score of yards away from her, running down the street. 
               On the following day, as I was packing up my things ready to start off to London by the evening train, my mother broke in upon me, saying that Mr. Haywood wished to speak to me. 
               Mr. Haywood! Why, what can he possibly want with me? I muttered within myself, my hands beginning to tremble, and my mouth growing suddenly parched. 
               Then I went down stairs to meet my visitor, whom I found in a state of great perturbation, and as white as a sheet. 
               "You are astonished to see me here, Mr. Robert," he began in a nervous manner. "I am taking a liberty, perhaps?" 
               "No liberty at all, Mr. Haywood," I answered, wondering what it all meant. 
               "You see, Rosetta looks upon you as such a dear friend, that--" 
               "Yes," said I, a little impatiently, and quite in the dark. 
               He breathed hard, thrust his broad hands through his grizzled hair, and looked helplessly around. 
               "What-what is the matter, Mr. Haywood? I gasped, growing greatly alarmed. "Has anything happened to Rosetta?" 
               "Nothing. I am come here to speak of myself, Mr. Robert. I could not write to her family about the sad business-I wish to break the matter to her gently." 
               "What matter?" I inquired, praying that he would not longer keep me in suspense about affairs. 
               "I have hardly the courage to tell you-I am a bankrupt, Mr. Robert!" he said, hoarsely. 
               I stared in astonishment, and he went on. 
               "My partner has proved himself a villain, Mr. Robert," the cotton-spinner continued, with quiet desperation, "and I am a ruined man. All my savings, the result of years and years of industry and perseverance, are lost, and I stand here a penniless man." 
               "Good Heavens!" was all I could utter. 
               "I cannot see Rosetta again," Mr. Haywood next said, with a deep drawn sigh. 
               My heart beat loudly when I heard this. 
               "Will you do me a great service?" pursued my visitor. 
               "If I can, I will," was the reply. 
               "Well, go to Rosetta's parents, and break to them the fact of my bankruptcy and entire ruin. Tell them that I release Rosetta from her engagement with me-that I set her wholly free; and beg them to keep my few trifling presents-they might probably think of returning the things-in order that I may not be wholly forgotten by them." 
               Heaven knows how I pitied the poor man as he spoke these words. I looked into his face, and saw that his eyes were overflowing with tears-that his lips were twitching with emotion and pain. 
                
               And I promished to do all he wished-to break the matter gently to the Blandfords. Then he took his leave of me, and quitted the house. 
               At first my heart was heavy in my breast: the poor man seemed to have left part of his grief with me; but presently remembering that Rosetta was free, and that she might one day be mine, I flung off my sadness, and grew merry as a lark, rejoicing to think that she was rid of a man with whom she could never have been happy. 
               When I arrived at the cottage of the Blandfords, I found Rosette alone. Her parents were gone out for a walk. 
               I looked at her with a swelling bosom, then took a chair by her side, and still continued gazing at her wonderous beauty, thinking that she might one day be mine to caress, to treasure and adore. Oh, how supremely happy I felt at this instant! 
               "Rosetta," I began, my joy almost suffocating me. 
               She looked surprised at the strangeness of my manner, and recoiled from me as I attempted to seize her hand. 
               "Nay, you may let me take it, Rosetta," I said; "for that hand is now yours, to bestow on whosomever you choose!" 
               "What do you mean, Robert?" she asked. "I do not understand you." 
               I then told her everything-of her intended husband's ruin, and likewise of my own love for her. 
               She listened to me with assumed calmness, and in silence. 
               "And, oh! Rosetta, you are at liberty to love me now, and we shall both be happy together!" And then I went on telling her of my prospects, of my uncle's kindness, and all I felt and thought. I knew she might now hearken to everything I could say-that she might do so without wrong to anyone. 
               Still she was silent-her clasped hands lying in her lap, her head drooping on her breast. 
               At length she looked up at me, her beautiful eyes full of sorrowful reproach. 
               "Do you think I shall take advantage of Mr. Haywood's misfortunes? Do you, Robert, judge me so meanly?" 
               My heart dropped within my breast, and a deadly sickness seized me. I felt ready to sink at her feet. 
               "I am still the promised wife of Mr. Haywood!" she said, softly, but firmly. 
               "But he has given you up, Rosetta!" I cried, nearly beside myself with excitement and terror. "Of his own free will he has done so!" 
               "Did he wish to give me up?" she asked, fixing upon me a strange, inquiring look. 
               I hesitated. Her question seemed to sink down into the very core of my heart. 
               "Listen to me, Robert!" pursued she, a slight tremor in her voice. "Do you think I should be acting honestly, were I to allow him to give me up?" 
               I was powerless to answer. 
               "You could not, Robert;" continued she, in her own musical voice,-"you could not love and woo a woman who had given her word of honour to become a man's wife when he was rich-who had accepted all his gifts, only to neglect and refuse him in his hour of trial and trouble?" 
               I made her no reply. I was sitting before her, looking for all the world like a chidden schoolboy. 
               "But Mr. Haywood is poor now, Rosetta," I ventured to say, "a wife would only be a burden to him." 
               "A burden! she may be a blessing to him," she returned, with great feeling. 
               "And would you crush me, then?" I cried out, passionately. "You do not remember that I loved you long-long before this cotton-spinner became acquainted with you?" 
               Then Rosetta covered her face with her hands, and wept bitterly. 
               "All that I had to forget, Robert, before I first gave my word to him," she answered through her clasped fingers. 
               "Oh, Rosetta, Rosetta!" I exclaimed, frantically flinging my arms around her, and drawing her to my breast. "My darling, must I lose you?" I added, my lips for the first time pressing hers. 
               I do not know how much longer we sat thus, her head lying on my shoulder, her tears falling faster than rain. I was wishing to die, as we there sat together, But people never die when they wish to do so. 
               At last she tore herself away from me, and drawing a diamond ring from her finger, placed it in my hand. 
               "Robert," she said, "Mr Haywood gave me that; bear it back to him with all my duty. Tell him that I will be his faithful wife through poverty, sorrow, and pain. Wish me heaven's blessing, Robert," she added, laying her white cheek close to mine, and whispering in my ear. 
               I spoke not a syllable, but winding my arms around her, drew her to my heart. 
               Well, Rosetta became Mrs. Haywood; and, instead of being the mistress of a splendid home, as she had expected, she went into very humbled lodgings, and her husband obtained a situation as a clerk in a merchant's office, and together they lived, unmurmuringly, and in apparent content with one another. 
               I did not envy them their peace; but (heaven forgive me if I sinned) when a year after Rosetta's marriage they carried her to her last resting-place-when I knew in which corner of the little churchyard she was sleeping-I felt happier than I had felt for many a day before. 
               And I have never forgotten Rosetta, she was MY FIRST LOVE AND MY LAST. 
             
             
               BLANCHE. 
               IN the first place, do you know where the Rue Mouffetard is? If you are a Parisian you probably do not, for strangers know much more about Paris than those who have been born within its walls and always passed their lives. 
               In an old house in this street (where indeed there are very few new ones) you enter a long, dark, and generally a very dirty entry, at the end of which you will see, or rather you will feel, a staircase with iron balustrades. Ascend boldly, for it does require some courage to venture up a dark and slippery pair of stairs. When you reach the third storey you will begin to see a little, and between seeing and feeling you will find a door on your right hand, by the side of which hangs an old ribbon with an epaulette attached to it, which elegant affair performs the duty of a bell-rope for the accommodation of those who visit this agreeable lodging. 
               M. Delapoule, the inhabitant, is a little old gentleman of seventy, but still alert and lively, with a slight figure, a sharp nose, piercing black eyes, and a curl of the lip, indicating rather a sarcastic disposition. He still holds to breeches and knee-buckles, and wears his hair in the fashion, of fifty years ago. 
               The old gentleman was a fine dancer in his youth; he was extremely fond of the science, as he termed it, and had obtained great celebrity by the precision and elegance of his step. As long as dancing was in fashion M. Delapoule was greatly sought after, and invited everywhere, that is, in his quarter of Paris. The ladies almost quarrelled who should have him for a partner, and the young girls quite took airs upon themselves when they had had the honour of dancing with him. In short, a ball was not a ball unless M. Delapoule was there. 
                
               During the empire the gavotte retained some favour, but the minuet was completely dethroned; the gavotte, after a short time, had the same fate; and then, instead of dancing and taking steps, came in the habit of walking, and even going to balls in boots. At this horrible subversion of all propriety and decency, M. Delapoule became utterly disgusted with the world and retired into the Rue Mouffetard. 
               But M. Delapoule had not retired by himself into the Rue Mouffetard. He had adopted and educated a great-niece, a little orphan who had neither friend nor protector in the world but her old uncle. 
               An old uncle of seventy is but a poor protector for a young girl of sixteen, but so goes the world; childhood leaning on old age, youth connecting itself with maturity. Extremes meet, they say. I think they might arrange matters better. 
               Well, the niece of M. Delapoule was named Blanche. She was a charming young creature, blooming as a May rose, bright as an Italian sky, and pure as a snow drift. 
               The life Blanche led was not very animating. She had no company but her old uncle, who entertained her with interminable discourses on the origin, progress, and decline of the art of dancing, only varied by such subjects as had reference to it. He never went out himself, nor ever supposed that his niece might wish to do so. 
               By way of rewarding the patience with which she listened to his reminiscences he taught her dancing; not the dancing of the present day, but such as was in vogue before the revolution of '89. He spared no pains, either to himself or her; for two hours after breakfast and two hours after dinner he required her to keep her feet in the stocks that she might acquire the habit of turning her toes out; she was at least three hours a day practising her steps, was never permitted to enter a room without making a curtsey, nor retired to bed before she had danced a minuet. 
               Blanche did not find this mode of life very entertaining. For, though young girls are fond of dancing, it is not of dancing as a task, with nobody to look at them but an old man, and at sixteen it is rather tiresome to be kept in the stocks four hours a day. But Blanche was sweet-tempered and dutiful; she loved her old uncle, and to please him took indefatigable pains to improve in the minuet, while M. Delapoule accompanied her with a kit, which he declared to be equal to a stradiuarius. 
               In the evening M. Delapoule, seated in his arm chair, would call Blanche to his side, and after patting her cheek, proceed to the following questions:- 
               "Have you passed four hours in the stock to day?" 
               "Yes, uncle." 
               "Have you practised all your positions?" 
               "Yes, uncle." 
               "Do you make a curtsey every night before you get into bed?" 
               "Yes, uncle." 
               "That is right. You are a very pretty girl, well shaped; you hold yourself well, and one of these days, when the taste for dancing revives, which must soon happen, for public taste always returns in the end to what is beautiful and graceful; then, my love, you will be an example to others. You will be talked of, sought after, and admired when the wretched habits of the present day have gone by." 
               The old man would end by falling asleep as he beat the time of a minuet on the arm of his chair. 
               But at last the tedious, uniform, and solitary life Blanche led-never going out, or taking any of the pleasures suitable to her age-began to affect her health. 
                
               M. Delapoule, very uneasy at seeing the rose fading on the cheek of his little niece sent for his doctor, and consulted him about her health. 
               "Does your niece ever go out?" asked the doctor. 
               "Never." 
               "Not to balls or concerts?" 
               "No, never." 
               "Does she walk out?" 
               "Never." 
               "Well, then, that is the cause of her illness." 
               "What do you mean, doctor?" 
               "My meaning is very plain; your niece suffers from ennui, and that is a worse malady than any other." 
               "And what makes you suppose my niece suffers from ennui? I am always with her-always talking to her; I get her everything she wishes for. She can go to bed early, and get up late. In. short, she lives just as I do; and I assure you I never suffer from ennui." 
               "Yes: but you are seventy, and your niece is sixteen, and the life that suits you will not quite agree with her. If you want to see your niece well again, you must let her go out, see company, dance--" 
               "Dance! Why, she dances all day long! She is never an hour without taking steps." 
               "Yes; but that is not the sort of dancing. She must dance with somebody else than you. She must go to balls. In short, M. Delapoule, you must remember that young girls are like flowers-if you keep them from the air they grow up pale and feeble. You must give your niece amusement and air." 
               "Give my niece air?" said the old man to himself when the doctor went away. "Take her to balls! Certainly the doctors of the present day have a pleasant way of prescribing. Air! I should think enough of that might be had at the windows. To be sure, mine do look upon rather a confined court. Well, since it must be so, I will take my niece out. I will take her to the boulevards.' 
               So he called Blanche and informed her of his intention. The young girl jumped for joy; the public walks were a terra incognita to her. She had heard of them, it is true, as well as of the theatres and other wonders of the centre of the city. But, Paris to her did not contain more than the Rue Mouffetard, where she had lived since she was seven years old. She hastened to make her toilet, choose her best dress, and endeavored to make herself look pretty. Luckily nature had already taken that matter in hand. That was peculiarly fortunate in Blanche's case, because the ornaments given by nature are never out of fashion. 
               As to M. Delapoule he was as faithful to old fashions in dress as in dancing. He still wore his breeches with splendid knee-buckles, his coat of changeable silk, with buttons as big as a crown piece, of brass, with a bird enamelled in the centre; and his hair tied in a queue and frizzled to an enormous height, on the top of which was perched a three-cornered hat not at all like that of the petit corporal. 
               In this trim he sallied forth, his niece on his arm, leaning on a cane which had served him to beat time for the last fifty years, stepping in minuet time, and Blanche looking about in astonishment at everything she saw. 
               It is not very fast travelling to move in a minuet step. The uncle and niece had left the Rue Mouffetard at eleven o'clock, and it was past two before they reached the Boulevard. 
               You may imagine the wonder of Blanche at finding herself in the midst of a crowd, and how her eyes wandered from the walkers to the pedlars, to those who were exhibiting strange sights, to the ballad-singers, and the sellers, of all the various commodities that ever could be wanted; their ears rung with strange cries; they could not manage to make their way through the crowd; first they were pushed by a big woman looking very cross because her daughter would grow as tall as herself and people would not take them for sisters, though they were dressed exactly alike; then the boys drove their hoops against them, or threw their balls on their heads; some of the smaller children were knocked over by the passengers; why did not the nurses take care of them? the nurses had found a country woman who was telling them the news of their village, which interested them much more than the children. 
               The next they heard was the bells of the sellers of lemonade, at a farthing a glass. Why they are hung round with little bells like a string of mules I never could discover; but I daresay some people like the noise, and we shall have it introduced into the concerts. 
               Further on they saw a dirty-looking man in black holding forth to a crowd collected around him; but this man does not carry any thing: he has no basket, no stall, of course he can have nothing to sell; what can he be about? what can he be saying? All the people are curious to know, and M. Delapoule and his niece as much as any; so they push through the crowd to hear the gentleman in black, who every now and then takes a pinch of snuff between his phrases to fill up the intervals, as if he did not well know what he was going to say. 
               "Certainly-gentleman and ladies-among those who are walking for pleasure-particularly in fine weather-as it is to-day-there are some who would say-ah! there is an individual-who is speaking on the Boulevard-probably for some reason--" 
               "Uncle," whispered Blanche to her uncle, "I don't understand what that man is talking about." 
               "Nor I, neither," replied the uncle; "but since he says he has some reason for being here, we shall probably find it out in time." 
               The man in black takes out of his pocket a little piece of black paper and a pair of scissors; then, looking round his audience to make his choice, he begins to cut away without interrupting his discourse. 
               "Yes, ladies and gentlemen-when you see a man-addressing a numerous company-it is natural to inquire-what has he to say to that company?-It is to be supposed that he has some business, but what is it?-that I shall have the honour of showing you in a few minutes-only a minute or two-that is not much for people who have nothing to do." 
               The man in black, while he was making these speeches, had fixed his eyes on M. Delapoule, who had at last managed to get near the object of his curiosity. He could not at first understand why the man kept his eyes always fixed upon him, and seemed to address his remarks exclusively to him, but thought it must be out of politeness, and he was watching for an opportunity to answer him, when the gentlemen finished his cutting out, stuck what he had done upon a piece of white and showed to the assembly the profile of M. Delapoule, which was an excellent likeness, as the profile and coiffure of the old gentlemen were so remarkable as to be easily caught. 
               Everybody laughed; M. Delapoule and his niece wanted to know what they were laughing at; they press forward to get a sight; M. Delapoule was astounded at the sight of his likeness, and Blanche exclaimed:- 
               "Oh, it is you uncle! exactly! with your queue and your little three-cornered hat." 
               The man in black presented the profile to the old gentlemen, saying:- 
               "You ought to be satisfied, sir, as everybody sees the likeness. There is your picture; you may pay me what you please; I am not unreasonable." 
               "I shall give you nothing at all," cried M. Delapoule, turning red with anger. "I think you are very impertinent to take my profile without my leave. I did not stop for that. It is stealing my face. You had no right to do this. Come along, niece. I shall go and complain to the authorities." 
               The old man drew Blanche away, and they went off, followed by the laughter of the crowd, who were lightly diverted by the scene. Trying to hurry off they got pushed and knocked about in every direction. 
               "Ah!" said M. Delapoule, "things were very much better managed before the revolution. People did not then tread on your toes every minute, without even begging your pardon; and they did not take your profile without your leave." 
               The young lady was much better satisfied than her uncle. The numerous passengers, the shops, the sights, all entertained her very much; besides some young men had exclaimed as they passed, "What a pretty girl!" And pretty girls, however modest they may be, never dislike to hear of their beauty. 
               The uncle and niece had by this time taken a long walk. It was their dinner time, and they were far distant from the Rue Mouffetard. 
               "My dear," said the old man, "You must be hungry?" 
               "Yes, I am, uncle." 
               "So am I; and, as we are so far from home, we'll go and dine at a traiteur's." 
               Blanche was delighted; she had never been at a traiteur's, and the idea of tasting dishes she had never heard of and which must be excellent, pleased her very much. 
               M. Delapoule looked about him, and saw in a sort of shop, a gentlemen siting at a table and eating something, and he said to himself this must be a traiteur; there are not many people there, but so much the better; it will be more proper for my niece. 
               "Let us go in." 
               They went in and found themselves in a room where there were a number of tables laid, and a quantity of newspapers and small rolls. 
               They take their places at a table, and the old gentleman says to a lady sitting in the bar:- 
               "Madame, be so good as to give us something to eat; whatever you think best; anything that is ready." 
               The lady makes a sign of assent; and leaving the room, soon returns with two bowls of soup, which she places before them, saying:- 
               "Do you wish for bread?" 
               "Bread! to be sure we want bread! How can anybody eat soup without bread?" 
               The lady brought a basket containing rolls, and returned to her bar. The uncle ate the soup; the niece tasted it, and thought it best to wait for something else. 
               When he had finished his soup, M. Delapoule said to the lady of the bar, "Madame, we do not intend to stop at this." 
               "Very well, sir." 
               The lady goes out again, and brings two other bowls of soup, which she places before the uncle and niece. They look at each other, not knowing what to do; but at last determine to swallow this soup also, thinking it must be of a different sort, but it proves to be exactly the same, M. Delapoule then says, "This will not do, madame; we want something more." 
               Again the lady goes out, again returns with bowls of soup. M. Delapoule then gets quite out of patience, and exclaims, "What, soup again! Do the restaurateurs of Paris sell nothing else since the revolution." 
               "Why, sir, the establishment you are in belongs to a company for the supply of soup. We sell nothing else; you can have it sent to your house if you like." 
               M. Delapoule had never heard of the establishment. He pays for his soup and leaves the place, very much vexed at the mistake. When they again find themselves on the Boulevard, the uncle says to Blanche, "Are you yet hungry, my dear?" 
               "Oh, no, uncle! All that soup has taken away my appetite." 
               "Well, then, we will walk on, and try to find something that will amuse you." 
               In a few minutes they saw a puppet show. They stopped to enjoy the sight. A crowd had already assembled, composed chiefly of boys, who thought the appearance of the uncle and niece something extraordinary; so did the workmen and idlers who stood round and pointed at the little man with the queue, the silk coat, and the birds on his buttons. They no longer looked on the puppets or anything else but the old gentleman, who little suspected the amusement he furnished to the crowd, which increased every minute till it filled all the space, and impeded the passengers, who were obliged to stop and increase it. Everybody was trying to get sight of the odd-looking little man: they pushed and knocked each other, and even came to blows. It was supposed to be a mob. A police agent made his way through the crowd; they pointed out the little man to him. He pushed his way though, took him by the arm, and said in a peremptory tone, "Come, sir-walk on; you must not stay here." 
               "Why must I walk on?" said the old gentleman, looking at him in surprise. 
               "Because you are creating a disturbance." 
               "I create a disturbance?" 
               "Yes, yes-you know you are, and you do it purposely." 
               "What is it I am doing?" 
               "You pretend not to know, but I understand you. You wear that little cocked hat to look like the Emperor." 
               "What emperor?-whom are you talking of?" 
               "No more jesting, sir. You have eagles on your buttons, too." 
               "They are not eagles-they are humming-birds." 
               "I say they are eagles." 
               "Well, and if they are! what is that to you? If I like birds I suppose I am at liberty to wear them. You are really too vexatious." 
               "Come, sir, go off at once, and be thankful that, as you are an old man, I do not arrest you." 
               "Oh, uncle, let us go!-pray, let us go!" cried poor Blanche, frghtened to death. 
               The unlucky old man yielded to the joint influence of her prayers and the injunctions of the policeman. He succeeded in getting through the crowd, and making his escape assisted by the increasing darkness. But he could not comprehend the meaning of all this. 
               "They accuse me," said he, "of exciting a disturbance, because I wear birds upon my buttons, and a three cornered hat. Really, I cannot understand it! I no longer know Paris. Everything in it is changed! Traiteurs, manners, dress, are as much altered as dancing. I wish, at least, my poor Blanche, that I could have seen you enjoy yourself a little; this first excursion has not afforded you much pleasure." 
               At that moment they passed a rotunda, and Blanche looking up discovered a transparency exhibiting the magical word "ball." 
               "Oh, uncle!" cried she, eagerly, "a ball; there I should be amused. I spend half the day in stocks that I may dance well. How I should like to dance at a ball." 
               "And I should like to see you dance. No doubt these people have never seen fine dancing; how they will admire your steps, your courtesies, your grace! I am still active enough to be your partner. Come, my dear niece, we will show these ignoramuses what dancing is." 
               The old man and his niece entered the ball-room. They were just calling for a fourth couple in a quadrille; they hastened to secure the place, and all eyes were turned upon the strange-looking couple, who seemed to have come from another world. 
               The music strikes up; the uncle and niece spring forward: they make pirouettes, and fetes bathus, and entrechats, and all manner of steps. The people stare at them, and then shouts of laughter are heard; the other dancers leave their quadrilles to come and look at the strange dancing; the scene on the Boulevards is acted over again; they push and fight and scream. The ball-room is a scene of confusion, and still the unsuspecting old man dances away and admires his niece, till, in the midst of one of his finest steps, his arm is seized by a police officer, who orders him to leave the ball immediately. 
               "Leave the ball!" cries the little man, still balancing himself on one foot; "what is that you say?" 
               "I say that you must leave the ball. You are dancing a prohibited dance." 
               "A prohibited dance! Have you got so far as to make good dancing an offence?" 
               "No; but you are dancing the Canan." 
               "I dancing the Canan! I should really be much obliged to you to inform me what the Canan is, for I have not the least idea." 
               "You pretend ignorance, do you? but you may well be ashamed of such dancing. At your age, too. Come, sir, go off, or I shall send you to the watch-house." 
               Blanche, terrified again, drew her uncle away. The poor little old man, in a furious passion, gets into a carriage with his niece, and is driven back to the Rue Mouffetard, declaring that he will never stir out of it again. 
               But the next morning the old man reconsidered the matter, and came to a more sensible conclusion. He called Blanche, and said to her: 
               "My love, you shall have another dancing master; you shall go out oftener, and be dressed like other people; for I cannot endure to see you pointed at in the streets; and I am now convinced that you must dress, dance, and walk with the age." 
             
             
               A SPORTING BET. 
               THE Gordon Highlanders, the Limerick county militia, and a brigade of Artillery, constituted, in the year 1811, the garrison of Athlone. Its central situation, and the extensive works which had been constructed on its north-west side, required, at least, as large a military force as the above for the various guards daily mounted over the barracks, ordnance stores, and the lines. 
               The best possible feeling existed between the officers of these regiments, although the gallant Highlanders maintained, on all occasions, an air of conscious superiority over their militia friends. 
               It was my good fortune to be on terms of friendship with both corps. That worthy son of Caledonia, Lamont of Lamont, would greet me with a hearty shake of the hand, and "Hoo's a' wi' ye the day?" whilst the courtly old peer, Lord Muskerry, had a kind word to say, in the blandest brogue. So much for the colonels. Majors, captains, and subs were all known to me, many of the two latter grades my companions in divers choice pieces of mischief; but I am not going to relate any adventure of my own, and have only made the above remarks, as my good feeling towards both nations is in a measure of consequence to the story I now venture to relate. 
               I was lounging one morning at the door of the 92nd mess-room, with a bevy of kilted cronies, when our attention was attracted by an arrival in the barrack square. A fine lad, who had joined the Limerick only a few days, rode through the gates. He was not a native of the county to which his regiment belonged, but boasted of high Milesian blood, doubtless with abundant right to such a distinction, his father being an apothecary in Newtownlimavaddy, and withal most celebrated for the wonderous cures which he had wrought on quadrupedal patients; not that I mean to insinuate this "physicianer" was nothing better than a "cow-doctor;" but the district in which he resided was remarkable for the salubrity of its air, as affecting the "humane species," and for a variety of diseases among hoofed and horned cattle. 
               But to the son and heir of this Irish farrier-surgeon and bulls' apothecary. No sooner was he aware that our gaze was upon him than he insidiously applied the spur, promoting various capers and caracoles, "to witch the world with noble horsemanship;" nor did he cease to display his proficiency in the mysteries of the manege, as he approached the barracks; on the contrary, he caused his steed to rear, kick, and plunge so violently, and so very near the mess-room door, that it was a service of danger any longer to watch the evolutions of this Con-naught Centaur. 
               "Ech, my man, be carefu'; d'ye no ken the stanes are het and slippery? ye may get a fa' before ye'r aware o't," considerately remarked the good-hearted old Major --- 
               "Och, the devil a fear, Mejur! I'd like to see the horse that could spill me," replied the youngster. "It's only the feed he gets that makes him so full of spirit; he's been used to't in my father's stables, who has as ilegant a stud of hunters and racers as ever you seen." 
               "And which, Sir, may I ask," continued the Major, "do you denominate your chesnut?" 
               "Why, he's aqual to aither; I'd hunt him in Roscommon, or match him at the Curragh, for any sum under a thousand." 
               The poor half-starved, ewe-necked hack had, during this dialogue, stood perfectly quiescent, so we descended from our place of vantage, and, much to the surprise of the lad, took a regular survey of this "high charactered" animal, determined to derive entertainment from man and horse. 
               "As pretty a pair of broken knees as I ever beheld," remarked one. 
               "You're a mighty big judge of horse-flesh," replied the rider, colouring up to the eyes at the unlucky discovery; "a mere graze the crature got, topping a six-foot dyke." 
               "How wad he come on his knees, in crossing a dyke, Sir? the thing's no possible! Certes, ye may baith have stuck in the mud; but supposing that the dyke was perfectly dry, the banks woudna be that hard as to cause sic an awfu' disfigurement as yon." 
               "It would be mighty well, Sir, for you when you talk about anything to know what you're talking about," retorted the vexed equestrian. "Them as knows their mother tongue can tell you that in Ireland the English for dyke means stone wall. And if any of ye has a fancy to go out schooling with me, I'll engage to show you some sporting leaps, that ye'll not be in any kind of hurry to take yourselves." 
               That's a tolerably good imitation of a string halt," observed another of the party. 
               "Now, you're out; it's only the remains of a strain he got the day he won the cup at Ballyswillyhooleystown; but I'm not going to stand here to have my horse-better naver was crossed-pulled to paces by them as don't wear the convayniances for riding. I wonder where that lazy vagybone of a groom of mine is? I must send the Bar'ny boy to stable and get ready for the afternoon of drill. The devil ride a hunting with our serjeant-major that has the impertinence to say I'll not be fit for duty this month!" 
               "Couldn't you prevail on Lord Muskerry to let you fall in on horse back?" asked Captain R--, with a somewhat malicious expression. 
               "Nabochlish!" returned the Milesian. "I know 'tis funning me ye are, but I'm not so 'aisily hated' as poor Larry in the song was; so onc't for all, if you are for a match,"-and again the armed heel of the speaker made the poor beast curvet,-"I'll run against any of yez!" 
               "Hoot, man! don't run against me!" cried little Wallis the quartermaster, who was at the moment trying to make his way through the group to the colonel's rooms. "Ye micht keep your garron still, I think; it's just sinfu' to be digging them great butchers' spurs into the ribs of the beast, for the Lord kens there's nae flesh on the back of it to cover him." 
               "Come, come, Wallis," cried Captain R--, "don't disparage the noble animal; it's a racer, man, and has won a cup." 
               "Ca'ye the likes o' that skaleton a racer? I'd wager a year's pay that I'd find a beast to beat him in a month." 
               "There's a sporting bet for you, Sir," said Captain M'P--; "will you take it?" 
               "Let's hear what it is," replied the equestrian, dismounting from his steed, and handing him over to the charge of a soldier in a fatigue jacket, who had previously been named with the brevet rank of groom. 
               "It's this just," answered Wallis. "I'll undertake to race a beast o' mine against that poor, miserable, herrin'-gutted animal o' yours, within a month from this very day, on condition, d'ye perceive, that four-and-twenty hours' nottis o' time and place be deemed good and sufficient on my part, and that the choice of the ground to be run over, the coorse, ye ken, be left entirely to me; and the stakes shall amount to the vally of a month's pay, and no the twelve I was fule-like eneuch to name the noo." 
               As there was a numerous clan of little Wallis's running about in the worthy quarter-master's quarters, I took the liberty of saying- 
               "Excuse me, my good Sir, but recollect you will have all the expense of training, &c.; supposing we make up a purse of ten guineas amongst us, and let the officers of the Limerick know that a day's sport is intended, they will join in the fun with pleasure, and back 'the Barony boy,' for such is the name of this high mettled racer!" 
               "I'll back the Bar'ny boy meself entirely, without being beholden to any one," was the spirited remark of the owner of the animal. 
               "Barney boy or Blarney boy, is it a bet?" asked Wallis drily. 
               "It is, for tin guineas-that's eleven pounds seven and six-pence Irish,-done!" 
               "And noo, gentlemen," said Wallis, "I think we cou'dna do better than appoint Maister Hell the umpire, for ye see its a sort of a -- kind of a naational competetion; the lad's Irish, and sa are a' his friends; we're frae the land o' cakes, Hell's an Englisher, and sae ye see he'll no be prejudeeced oh ane side or tither." 
               "Bravo, Wallis! ye're a canny chiel, and your choice is accellent," said the Major: "will you take the office, my freend?" he added, turning to me. 
               "Willingly, if the other party consents." 
               The young Hibernian, his handsome face beaming with good humour, and by no means displeased at his having thus suddenly become an object of interest to "the Regulars," advanced towards me, saying: 
               "I'll be right glad, Sir, to have you for my umpire; I was promised to be made known to you by Major Spread the next time you dined at our mess." 
               "Let us waive ceremony, Sir," I replied; "I shall be glad to cultivate your acquaintance, and you may be sure that I will exercise what judgment I may possess most impartially in the responsible situation Mr. Wallis and yourself have, been pleased to confer on me." 
               The beat of drum broke up our meeting, my friends hastening to their rooms to put on belt, sword, and sash for the coming parade. 
               I shall not trespass on the patience of my reader by describing what passed during ing the month allowed for training, but content myself with saying that the frequent questions put to Wallis were invariably answered by, 
               "Wait and ye'll see just. I'll win the race, ye may depend on't, though I've hard that they Lim'rick lads; are offering awfu' odds against me." 
               This confidence on the part of the Quarter-master seemed to me well founded, as two or three times, whilst visiting the lines, I encountered him, with a smiling face and a look of anticipated triumph. Why he should choose this particular locale for his daily walk I could not guess, as no stable existed nearer than the long range within the high walls of the barrack-square; it was possible that he loved to promenade where, unobserved, might calm his aspiring thoughts and elegant ideas, after visiting the Flying Childers he had chosen to humble the pride of the Barony boys's master: 
               It was within the time allowed, by a day or two, when I received notice that "the match would come off" the next afternoon at three, and I was requested to attend at the spot selected by Wallis for trial of speed and skill. It appeared to me a somewhat extraordinary place for the purpose, being no other than the interior of the works already mentioned; and I must here apprise my reader that this irregular fortification consisted of two or three spacious bastions, connected by long walls, technically called curtains, presenting a formidable altitude on the exterior, but having broad ramparts within, on which the ordnance were placed, and where infantry could act if occasion required; the hollow space between those high banks of earth was not sufficiently capacious to allow of a ring or a straight course upon it, being encumbered with store-houses and piles of shot and shell. 
               Time would, however, bring truth to light; I should be sure to know all ere twenty-four hours had passed, and therefore awaited the event with patience. 
               At an early hour of the day- 
                      
                        "The important day, 
                        Big with the fate of Wallis and his bet-" 
                     
                   an unusual bustle was observable in the barrack-yard: nor was the stir confined to the male part of its inhabitants; it was evident that this wager had excited the most lively interest among the fair sex. 
               "Ye'll gang and see the race na doubt, Mestress M'Alister?" asked an old woman, whose grey hairs and decrepit figure ill accorded with the vivacious tone of her question. 
               "I canna precessly soy whether or no I shall be able, Mem," answered her friend; "for I've, nearly a' the hose and sarks o'two companies-my gude man's and ane the Adjetent ga' me-in the suds the noo, so I'll ha' to stick to my tub, I'm thinking, and lose the sight that I may na' lose the siller, ye ken." 
               "I say, Mother Gladle, a cuishla, are ye goin' to see our young offichere take the shine out of the omedhaun of a Scotch Quarther-master?" demanded a young private of the Limerick. 
               "Is it myself that would miss the fun, ma rouchal? sure, and aint I goin' to back the darling a lanna ma chere? Don't I know his flesh and blood cousin, Squire Murphy of Castle Murphy? nice place it will be when its built? And have'n't I got an old thirteen and three fi'penny bits in the pocket of me, that I mane to sport upon the coorse this blissed day?" 
               "It's well to be you, Misthress Gladle, entirely; sure the fip'nies will be enough for the bets, and wid the thirteen you and I can have an illegant snack before we go, a hinnee!" 
               "Who ax'd you for your company, you rauberagh! I'm goin' wid dacent people, and not wid the likes of you, tall fellow as ye ate, and handsome as you consate yourself." 
               These and such like "discoorses" I could not avoid hearing as I passed the speakers. As the hour 
                     adproacned,
                     approached
                   the barracks were left to the undisturbed possession of the sentries, all who could keep holiday making their way to the works. 
               In order that the necessary preliminaries might be arranged in good time, I was early on the ground, which I found nearly covered by the men, women, and childer of the garrison, with here and there a knot of civilians, who had heard of the match, and "wouldn't lose the fun on no account." Wallis soon joined me, and I could not but smile at observing the extraordinary contrast of his present excited appearance with his usual meek sonsy deportment. 
               "Noo, then, Maister Hell, my freend, the first thing for me to do is to show you the ground I have fixed on, and then we'll clear the course, and prepare for the run. Serjeant Anderson, stick a bandyroll down here; that's the starting-post; and come awa' wi' me, and I'll show you the winning-post." 
               Saying this, he elbowed his way through the crowd for about a hundred and fifty yards along the principal rampart of the work, and again a bandyroll was fixed. 
               "It has chapped twa mair than half-an-hour, so we'll lose no time;" then elevating his voice and his person, he bawled out in Gaelic for the Highlanders to move away from the space between the two flags. Oddly enough, his directions were completly intelligible to his Hibernian hearers, and the dense mass began to stir. It struck me that no possible harm could occur to the parapets by their occupation for so brief a space, and I bade the bystanders jump up and take their seats upon them. It would be in vain should I attempt to describe the scrambling and crushing which followed this order; the derangement of the draperies of the females who were handed or hauled up, did not occasion so much uproarious mirth as accompanied the awkward escalade of my kilted friends; those who were not so fortunate as to obtain seats in this enviable situation, contented themselves with forming a double and sometimes treble line upon the edge of the opposite slope. 
               Scarcely had this arrangement been completed when a loud shout from the Limerick lads announced the arrival of their hero. Young Mr. O'Fogerty, in a racing jacket of sky-blue with yellow sleeves, and a pink jockey-cap, mounted on his fiery steed, and surrounded by a large body of his brother officers, now advanced to where Wallis and myself, attended by an equal number of the 92nd, stood. 
               "Here I am, Sir, for the honour of Ireland!" gallantly exclaimed the equestrian. "I hope you're not going to disgrace the Bar'ny boy by naming any blackguard, broken-winded hack to match him. Is yours well bred?" 
               "He's well fed, and that's eneuch for me, or, at least, he will be by and by," replied Wallis, with a knowing wink, and glancing at the condition of his rival's steed, on whom the month's training had produced the effect of anything but an increase of flesh. 
               "Well, Sir," said O'Fogerty, burning with impatience to prove himself a Chifney, "where's the winning post?" 
               "Yon wee bit flag; you can judge of an animal's speed as well in a hundred and fifty yards as in a three-mile course; and the terms, ye ken are a' of my ain proposing: but, ech, Sirs! there's one thing I was clean forgetting, Maister Hell will be at the winning post, ye must name some gentleman to gi' the signal for starting. Will Major Spread, have the goodness to do it?" 
               "Why, my good Sir, as we have in this country the highest legal authority for stating that no man can be in two places at the one time, unless he is a bird, will start you with pleasure." 
               A loud huzza from the sons of Shannon's side followed the Major's acquiescence. 
               "Noo, then, I'll bring up my beast"-saying which a square wooden machine, carefully covered with tarpauling, was wheeled to the spot by four men of the Wallis faction. 
                
               "Death alive! Do you mean to say your horse is in that case?" 
               "I didna say horse, I say beast; and if my beastie does na win, why you'll put the gowd in your poke, and crow over me, and welcome." 
               The appearance of this black and somewhat mysterious-looking object attracted the most lively attention. 
               "It's no horse but a sheog he his there," remarked one of the Hibernian spectators. 
               "You're not far out, my man," observed Wallis. 
               "My heavy hathred upon, you; is my countryman to have dalings with the likes o' them? Sure he's not such a kiolawn to venture." 
               "Hould your whist, Ned Collopy, and don't be spiling sport wid your shuperstitions," rather angrily remarked a corporal of the Limerick to his alarmed comrade. 
               "Noo then, Maister Hell, to your post; just gi' us a shake of the bandyroll when you're there, and then the Major will say the ane, twa, three, awa'!" 
               "Do you ride the animal?" I asked, as I was about to leave. 
               "Me ride?" the Lord keep me from crossing siccan a steed." 
               A few minutes brought me to the appointed spot; there I found Serjeant Anderson, flag in hand, with something at his feet, covered up in like manner to what I presumed contained the Quarter-master's Bucephalus. Through the long and somewhat narrow lane of human beings I could clearly see what was going on at the starting-post. The moment Wallis removed the tarpauling, shouts, roars of laughter, and deep groans burst from those near enough to discern the contents. 
               "It's a powney just," observed one close to me. 
               "Fair, I'm after thinking it's a monkey, or may be a bear." 
               "Bathershin! how would the likes of them bate a horse? Ye'll find it's a buck hound or some fleet divil that will run with the speed o' light." 
               "Be aisy now, can't you be quiet, sure there's the Major by the side of young O'Fogerty; they'll be off in a jiffy." 
               Wallis, too, was to be seen holding the door of the wooden pen, ready to pull if open at the signal. It was given. Forth rushed a PIG, who, no way terrified at the shouts which attended his appearance, hastened with incredible speed towards the goal; not so the Barony boy, who, at sight of his strange competitor, reared in the air, threatening to unhorse the astonished and discomfited jockey. On came the hog, gruffing and sniffing the savoury wash that awaited him, and which his friend and ally, Serjeant Anderson, had by this time uncovered. Piggy had made good two-thirds of the distance before the spurs of O'Fogerty, rowel deep, had urged the frightened courser onward; his rider, hoping yet to overtake his porcine foe, leant forward in true jockey style, using bridle, whip, and spur, with all the dexterity he could master. 
               But vain his efforts! The snout of hungry Toby had been for some seconds immersed in the wash, when the career of the rider was checked by his horse stumbling against the through, and pitching him over the head of the Barony boy and the curly tail of his rival into the arms of that portion of the assembled multitude who were, luckily, behind the winning post, and who placed him in safety upon the legs he had adorned with a new pair of jocky-boots for this occasion. 
               Wallis was declared the winner, and the stakes paid on the spot. The wily Scot had taken the opportunity of training his sapient pig at hours when he knew the officers of both regiments were at mess; and, after making him run for his dainty fare for more than three weeks, had only to keep the animal without food on the previous day to insure a super-porcine speed. 
               Congratulations poured in on the victor from all sides; his Irish friends acknowledged it was "a sporting bet," whilst his countrymen evinced their joy by carrying the pig round the barracks in triumph, preceded by the pipers of the regiment, who appropriately played "Peggy o' Knoch Winnoch," not a few singing Hogg's words to that scarce old air, instead of having to chant "Scot wha hae wi' Wallace bled," as they might have done had the Caledonian party been obliged to pay the ten guineas staked on these pork-chops. 
             
             
               AN INCIDENT IN NINETY-EIGHT. 
               DURING the rebellion in Ireland, an officer, whom we shall call Wentworth, was Brigade Major to Lord C--. Long before the troubles began, his beauteous and elegant wife had joined him. No sooner did affairs assume a serious aspect, than she received an invitation to reside with the Bartons, a protestant family of great wealth and influence, possessing a seat near Derry. Mrs. Wentworth gladly availed herself of the comfort and protection thus proffered, whilst her husband was occupied in his military duties, which day after day became more arduous, from the reckless daring of the rebel forces. 
               A skirmish had taken place not far from town, the king's troops were the victors, and some twenty or thirty prisoners had been taken. These wretched and misguided men were brought in, under a strong escort of yeomanry, and it was lamentable to observe the fierce passion and inveterate hate to their better regulated brethern that they exhibited. The group was principally composed of men in the very summer of their days, full of life and robust health, clothed in tatters, with feet unconscious of covering, lacerated in their late conflict, hasty retreat, and the march to which they had been forced to submit. 
               Amongst them was a lad about eighteen years old, whose dress bespoke him of a more respectable class than his associates; his demeanour was also at variance with that of his fellows; instead of the air of insolent scorn with which they viewed their captors, he marched amongst them the very image of despair, scarcely lifting his eyes from the ground, whilst his cheek, alternately deadly pale and flushed with the deepest crimson, gave evidence of the intense anguish he endured. 
               The prisoners were safely stowed, and the Major was on his road to Mr. Barton's, when suddenly his horse started at some object in the road. The shades of evening had fallen sufficiently to prevent his seeing the cause; but his first impulse was to disengage a pistol from his holsters, and prepare for the worst. 
               "Och, then, for the love of Jasus, don't shoot, Major aroon, but harken to what I have to say! There's life and death upon it; 'tis not from meself that you'll larn the truth, but from one dearer to me than me heart's core. Och, Major darling, did you obsarve the poor prisoners that the army brought in? Did you notice one of them, the finest lad that ever blessed a fond mother's eyes? and he now in jail, and the grief chokin' me as I spake of it." 
               Here the wretched mother burst into a flood of tears, and wrung her hands, with that impassioned air and mournful sound usual to the Irish in affliction. The Major, accustomed to hear such lamentations, often from hired mourners, was about to ride on, when the woman, seizing his bridle, exclaimed- 
               "Och, then, a vourneen, turn your horse's head towards Derry, make at once for the jail, and order Ned Farrell to be brought before you; but, for the love of the saints, do it quietly; don't let his comrades know that you have call to him, or his blood will flow by their hands, fettered though they be. My son it was who sent me after you. 'Mother, dear,' says he, 'would you risk a thrifle to save me?'-'Would I vally my own life or salvation for your sake, a vich ma chree?' says I. 'Mighty well,' says he, 'and thank ye; folly the Major, and get speech wid him outside the town; but have a care, for he may take you for an imposter; and, if my party guessed your interference, you'd not be safe. Tell Major Wentworth I have that to say will be worth the while of his listening, but to no human soul save himself will I spake; and when the Orangeman's rope has been round me neck, why then it will be too late for the both of us. 'Tis no lie I'm telling you, sir; take my advice, and ride back without delay!" 
               There was an earnestness in the woman's manner so intense, that Wentworth yielded to her desire, and in a short time reached the prison. 
               The lad he wished to see was easily distinguished from his fellows, and the officer of the guard arranged that he should be brought to the keeper's room, without exciting the observation of the other prisoners. On entering the chamber he bowed to the Major, and approaching him, said, in an undertone, "I beg pardon, Sir, for me bouldness; but, before I spake on the business that brought you, we must be alone." 
               Wentworth signified the boy's wish to the officer and the gaoler-they retired. The moment the door was closed Ned began:- 
               "You've seen my mother?" 
               "I have." 
               "Her heart is breakin' at the thought of me fate; 'tis for her sake, and not for my own, that I wish to have my life spared. If you will get Lord C-- to grant me a free pardon, why then I'll tell you how to presarve them that is dearest to you from certain destruction, and a cruel death. Let me have his Lordship's own hand and seal to it, and you'll bless the hour that you listened to me mother's entreaty. 'Tis for you to chuse-save my life, and that of the unborn babe wid its lovely mother-let me hang, and they will soon fill a bloody grave." 
               Wentworth did not hesitate for a moment: leaving directions that Farrell should remain where he was till his return, he hastened to Lord C--, and speedily procured permission to make terms with the rebel. 
               The face of Farrell was pale, and his frame much agitated on the re-entrance of the Major. 
               "Am I saved?" he eagerly demanded. 
               "Listen," said Wentworth. "If what you are about to communicate proves true, and is the means of preserving the lives of those to whom you have alluded I have the guarantee of your pardon; but, if you have invented any falsehood to mislead me, hanged you will be, as sure as that you were taken in arms against your rightful sovereign. So attempt not to deceive either yourself or me-upon your own words your life depends." 
               "Enough!" said the prisoner. "You know O'Dwyer, butler to Mr. Barton, at the big house?" 
               "I do." 
               "Mighty well then. Next Friday night by the blessin'-nor I don't mane that-next Friday night, as the clock strikes twelve, O'Dwyer manes to let in 'the boys;' and I needn't say if he does, not a living soul in the house will be saved. You may well stare, Major, but its the truth I'm tellin', as you'll know yourself to a sartainty, if you go cleverly to work. I have no more to say. Saturday mornin' I shall expect you with my relase in your hand." 
               As soon as this brief conference was ended, the Major retraced his steps, and shortly reached his destination. 
               He cautiously apprised Mr. Barton of what he had so strangely learnt. 
               "Impossible!" exclaimed the listener, "It is all a vile fabrication. O'Dwyer has lived with me from childhood. I'd stake my life upon his honesty and affection." 
               "It will be easy to ascertain if he be the honest creature you suppose," said the Major; "but, in this matter, I implore you to be guided by my advice, and suffer me to arrange matters so as to be prepared for the threatened danger. Precautionary measures can do no harm." 
               Mr. Barton, confident of his servant's devotion to him, yielded at length an unwilling consent. 
               On Friday"-the Friday named by the captive-O'Dwyer was sent to Derry, with a large sum of money, and directions to purchase such a variety of articles, that the execution of his commissions must necessarily detain him till late in the day. As soon as he was gone, Wentworth contrived to get into the house, in small parties of two and three at a time, some twenty infantry soldiers; these were smuggled in unseen by the servants or the family, and secreted in his wife's room, she being, with the exception of Barton, the only person aware of the circumstances connected with such measures. 
               In the evening O'Dwyer returned, and handed over receipts for the various disbursements. This confirmed the confidence in his integrity which his kindhearted master felt for him, who, after expressing his satisfaction at the punctuality and zeal displayed, inquired if he brought any news. 
               "Nothing, your honor, but the defate of the Croppies; the murthering thieves have been beaten right and left, and the town goal is full of the villians. High hanging to the blackguards, saving your presence your honor. Shure its well that none of the vagybones ever took it into their heads to pay this house a visit." 
               "If they did, you would show fight in the good cause, would you not, O'Dwyer?" asked his master. 
               "Pon my conscience, then, Sir," replied the butler, with an air of great simplicity, "Irish as I am, I was never too fond of fighting when I was young, and now its pace I'm for entirely, for good eating has burdened my years with fat and laziness; but, may be I could still be of use, comforting the mistress, and taking care of the darlints, not to spake of the friends staying with you. The heart of me you'd find was in the cause, tho' my arum may be waker nor it was, years agone, master dear!" 
               The old gentleman poured him out a glass of wine, and, O'Dwyer taking it, continued- 
               "May the Madara choke me, Sir, if I'd not lay down my life for the family!" 
               "I believe you, my good O'Dwyer," said his master; "and yet--" 
               "And yet," interrupted the Major, perceiving that the incredulous Barton was on the point of recounting the accusation against him, "and yet there can be no harm in taking the usual precautions; so, finish your wine, get your supper, and don't sit up to let me out; I mean to stay here to-night, as all appears likely to be quiet in town." 
               "'Tis to be hoped and in country too, Major. Good night and sound rest to both your honors!" said O'Dwyer, as he retired. 
               For many years it had been the custom of the house for the butler to lock the hall-door at night, and retain possession of the key until morning. The mansion in which the events I am endeavoring to record occurred, was an old-fashioned building, having a wide staircase, with spacious galleries (or as they are termed in Ireland "lobbies"), communicating with the various floors. 
               On the first of these lobbies Wentworth had a few minutes before midnight quietly posted his small party of infantry so as to command the hall-door, the men being directed to crouch behind the antique and massive balustrades. This had scarcely been effected, when O'Dwyer, the faithful and exemplary butler, appeared, carrying a dark lantern, the light of which enabled Wentworth to trace his every movement. He crept cautiously round the hall, listened-with stealthy pace he soon reached the door, and before he applied the key, shook his clenched hand with a threatening action in the direction of his master's bed-room. The key was in the lock-Wentworth whispered, 
                
               "Up, men, and present!" 
               The door opened, and instantly a body of about thirty rebels rushed in, with a hellish yell: they made their way towards the stair-foot. 
               "Now, lads, fire!" cried the Major. 
               The whole house vibrated with the volley. Screams, groans, curses, and the noise of retreating steps followed. 
               "Load and be ready," said the Major: "Lights there!" 
               A man left for the purpose brought candles. Wentworth hastened down stairs to ascertain the effects of the musquetry, a reception the intruders very little expected. Four men lay dead, two were severely wounded; the traitor, O'Dwyer, who had been the chief contriver of this harm, had received a ball in his forehead, the lantern which he carried serving to direct the aim by which he fell. Leaving half the soldiers in the hall, the Major led the others round the house and adjacent shrubberies, but the rest of the scoundrels had fled. 
               On his return, Wentworth found Mr. Barton and his wife actively engaged in quieting the alarms of the family. In answer to Barton's inquiry as to the fate of the miscreant, O'Dwyer, Wentworth led him to the spot where the body lay, the countenance awfully distorted. The kind-hearted master burst into tears at the sight of his intended assassin, and, with more of mercy than justice, exclaimed, 
               "May, the Lord, in his goodness, forgive you, O'Dwyer, for the evil you contemplated against your indulgent master!" 
               "Rather, thank Heaven, sir, that the villain has been overtaken in his treachery, and the lives of the innocent spared," remarked Wentworth, somewhat irritated at the misplaced compassion of his host. 
               The butler's crime seemed indeed gratuitous; for, though himself a Papist, he had never obtruded one difference of opinion on his heretic patron, and would certainly have gained less by plundering than by sparing the liberal Mr. Barton. 
               The soldiers remained on the qui vive all night; the proper authorities visited the house the next day, and congratulated the family on their happy escape from so base and villainous an attack. The bodies of the dead rebels were removed and the house purified from the stains of the recreant rebel blood. 
               Faithful to his promise, Wentworth hastened to the goal with the order for Farrel's release. The mother of the boy was seated on the pavement opposite the prison-door, and seeing the Major arrive said to him: 
               "May the blessed light shine on you for evermore, if 'tis my son you are going to give back to the widdy that's lonesome, but och, lose no time in letting him out. I have a car beyant the town, and we must be many miles from this before night,; deep oaths are sworn to have the life of him that told the secret of last night's attack. Hurry, Major, a vourneen, and the blessings of the fond mother be on you!" 
               A few minutes sufficed to restore Ned Farrell to his doting parent, and Wentworth could not but applaud the intention of the woman to remove her son from the immediate scene of his conscientious breach of faith. 
               But Farrell was not destined to escape from the inveterate hate of his late associates. In a lonely part of the road the car was beset by four ruffians, who with their heavy bludgeons beat the wretched lad till they felt assured his life was extinct. His poor mother for many an anxious day despaired of his recovery; she had, by means of a trusty friend, informed Wentworth of her son's dangerous state. The Bartons afforded the sufferer medical aid, and supplied his home with comforts during the tardy period of his convalescence. He arose from his sick bed a reformed man. 
               Protected by the Bartons against any future outrage from the vindictive savages he had defeated, Ned Farrell prospered; and the sight of his honest thankful face, was some atonement to his benefactor for the misery of having gazed on such a spectacle as that of the unprincipled miscreant O'Dwyer. 
             
             
                
               CLARA. 
               ST. RONAN'S CASTLE, the remains of which, with the rugged but striking scenery surrounding it, may have been more or less distinguished in the Border wars of the past, presents us now with but brief materials to tell the tale of its feudal glories. 
               It occupies a somewhat debateable position. 
               It lies in a well-known Scottish Border shire, south of the river Forth, and overlooks a winding "burn" or streamlet, which is a tributary of the same. 
               It is full thirty miles from the English border; and during the time of Montrose and the Stuarts, occurred, probably, the most brilliant events in its history. 
               Commanding the river, the broad valley, and an opposite chain of hills, the picturesqueness of its site cannot be questioned. 
               Its remains give indication of having been a formidable place of defence: for on the one hand, its walls rose straight and perpendicular from the verge of a tremendous and rocky precipice, its basement being washed by the brawling waters of the "burn," which, wimpling musically through heathery valleys, and beside many a bonny "shaw," took, at times, the proportions of a small cataract, as it went splashing downward over the obstructions that were in its way. 
               To the southward, the ground had been levelled into terraces, one above another; and while, in times of peace, these, with their favourable sites, formed the gardens of the castle, in times of feud and war they became means of defence, as each one above commanded each one below, in succession. 
               A massive square tower, of unusual largeness, surrounded by buildings and a strong embattled wall, answered to the Norman keep. To the north, trench after trench-now broken in, and partly filled up-contributed still more to its security, and protected the principal gateway, which opened in that direction. 
               In effect, it was a very perfect specimen of a Scottish castle of an earlier time-solidity, compactness, and strength being its prevalent characteristics. 
               But now, how changed is all!-broken towers, ivied battlements, mouldering walls, unrafted roofs-three parts of the castle being in a state of utter dilapidation, and only the fourth part habitable! 
               "A merry place it was in days of yore but something ails it now-the place is cursed," says a poet of some such tenement. 
               Its first possessor-known as the Mowbrays of St. Ronan's-had been a very powerful and influential family. 
               Bound by close relationship and intermarriage with the first of the Scottish clan families, they had held their own haughtily and proudly. 
               They were lords of the fair and fertile valley of which the castle commanded so striking a view. 
               They had made the Stuarts tremble on their Scottish throne more than once; but they had also adopted their cause, even at the most desperate moment. When the tide of prosperity turned-and we know how the ebb leaves the rich flood bare, naught but the barren sands being left-and James II was driven with ignominy from the throne, the hand of the spoiler was laid heavily upon their possessions-every succeeding year reducing their property more and more, and diminising every source of income. 
               Up to the middle of the seventeenth century, they were still a family of note and influence, and men yet looked up to the Lords of St. Ronan with a respect that, if not fully belonging to the present, showed that the prestige of the past clung around them. 
               After the battle of Dunbar, one of the Mowbrays distinguished himself by his fierce and obstinate defence of the castle against the forces of Cromwell. 
               As was the case general with Cromwell, where he found resistance most he found resistance most determined, so did his retaliation on the place of defence become proportionately increased. 
               The latter having found his way into the garrison, began its dismantling at once, and, blowing it up with gunpowder, left it the wreck it was when our story opened; one portion of the southern wing only having been rescued, and made habitable, and where dwelt together the sole remaining descendants of the family of the Mowbrays, gradually marching to extinction, in the person of a brother and sister, John and Clara Mowbray-the one, a proud, passionate, poor, yea, almost beggared young man, of about six-and-twenty; the other, a very beautiful, but eccentric, maiden, not yet twenty. 
               Her eccentricity almost amounted to insanity; but her beauty-fair, blue-eyed, golden-haired-was of almost fabulous order. 
               Thus, through a long course of unthrift and Extravagance, of desperate efforts and humiliating shifts, of sad and melancholy reverses, of great sacrifices made on behalf of the hapless descendants of the Stuarts, with the loyalty and devotion which have invariably characterized those great and lofty deeds of self-denial-the estates of St. Ronan's Castle had as indicated, gradually dwindled and wasted away. 
               The wealth which the Lords of St. Ronan once possessed had suffered by a slow process of extinction; and of the once proudly turretted castle, there remained but a patched fragment, sufficiently large, however, for the moderate household of the last descendant of the Mowbrays, once allied to the loftiest in the land; and of the acres of forest land and the square miles of mountain, moor, and heather, a pitiful farmstead, with stabling taken out of what were once lordly castle chambers, marked the former greatness. 
               The liveried vassals, and the men-at-arms in breast-plate and morion, that of old thronged the halls, were represented by an old decrepit serving man, the steward, Duncan Forbes by name, by a maid-of-all-work, known as Mysie, and a nameless faded female attendant of Miss Mowbray's, a bare-footed lad or two, a couple of grooms-half-a-dozen tattered dependants, representing the clan that had vanished into Egyptian night. 
               And everything indicating greatness fallen into decay-wealth become absolute poverty-the contentment of state at ease with itself and the world changed for the fierce despair of a family sinking under difficulties,-and it would have been hard to say which awakened feelings of pity and of sympathy more-the decay of the gaunt old castle, or the mockery of state John Mowbray, with a fierce irony, still continued to put on. 
               His father, mingling with the neighbouring lairds and gentry-for there were country seats and rising towns near at hand-had dabbled in horse-racing, hunting, fighting cocks, and hard drinking-as the era of the Georges initiated us into; and in imitation of those who still, upheld the glories of Epsom and Newmarket, by flinging thousands broadcast, he had still more deeply involved his heavily encumbered state. 
               A gentleman by birth, by education, by prejudices and blood, John Mowbray found himself heir to a pauper's future. 
               He was a "laird," possessed a castle, horses in the stable, grooms and hangers on; but the means to live in a manner suitable to his position were all gone. 
               To make this false position of the last of the Mowbrays the worse, he still continued to meet at the county hunt, and attend the balls which a fashionable clique continued to uphold and give at a neighbouring watering-place that had recently been brought into notice. 
               He still betted on his horses; and his stud, though limited to two, numbered one of the finest animals in the shire. 
               He still took his place at the card-table, and lost his half-crown or his half guinea points like a gentleman; but he saw that the dark day of despair and ruin was advancing steadily upon him; and the unhappy young man was, indeed, in a condition to be pitied. 
               His sister was possessed of a small fortune, settled upon her by a distant female relative, and the interest of some five hundred a year enabled her to keep the frugal household with some show of decency. 
               The day of feast and revel had, however, gone by. 
               If John Mowbray came home flushed with wine, and furious with some new piece of ill-luck, it was only to vent his spleen on his uncomplaining sister, and to curse his own brutality to the friendless orphan girl afterwards. 
               He had no visitors. 
               Clara would not mingle in the society that so much courted her for her wit and her beauty. John Mowbray had hoped, on one or two occasions, that a lucky marriage would yet retrieve the broken fortunes of his house. 
               But the obstinate, though playful, capriciousness of his sister had hither to baffled every plan, and suitor after suitor had come and gone, biting each his lip, at the unwelcome and sarcastic reception Clara Mowbray had given them. 
               Ruin was closing in upon John, and the darkness of despair was clouding the loveliness of the sister. 
               She could not bear to see him unhappy; but she could not place her hand and person at his disposal, even to save him. 
               One bleak autumnal day, when Clara, as was her wont, had been out upon her little pony-the only piece of extravagance she permitted herself-and had been scouring the lofty moorland, clambering and descending places which only her sure-footed mountain pony could attempt with any security, she suddenly came across the figure of a young sportsman, whose haughty brow and strikingly handsome face told that he was at least a gentleman, and distinct from the mere gamekeeper, whose garb, however, he had for the day adopted. 
               She checked her pony, with an exclamation that blended the liveliest surprise with positive fear. He, on the contrary, leaning on his gun, gazed upon her silently, sorrowfully, wistfully. 
               "Is it possible!" she exclaimed, in a whisper. "Is it you-you! or is your spirit? In heaven's good name, speak-tell me-or I shall go mad! and the thing I have dreaded so long shall have come to pass!" 
               "It is I, Clara," he replied, in a low but musical voice, and very mournful were his tones. "It is I, Clara, in very deed!" 
               "Then, may heaven be good to us both, and spare one of us, at least, the sharp pang of parting once again, and this time-for ever!" 
               "And can you, indeed, say so, Clara?" asked the young man, sadly. "I did all that lay within the powers of human nature to obey you-to depart, and never trouble you, or cross your path more. Alas! it was a task beyond my powers; and I must still love you-or die!" 
               "My brother has my pledge-my oath, Tyrrel-to hold no further intercourse with you. He made me swear!" She shuddered, as she hastily, almost wildly spoke. "Oh, why torture me thus?" 
               "I also have an oath-a vow, at least, sacred as an oath," he replied solemnly; "and mine has at least the priority!" 
               "Spare me!" she plaintively said. "Do you not see how I suffer?" And a spasm crossed her beautiful face, as she placed her hand upon her throbbing breast. "It cannot last long, and-and you must haste away. If my brother were but to meet you, his anger might be fatal!" 
               "I can even brave that, Clara," he said, sadly smiling. "But I will court neither peril nor quarrel, for your sake. Because there was some old family grudge existing between your father and my father-both of whom are dead-I cannot see why your brother should seek, by an unreasoning course of vengeance geance, to terrify me, who am a man, and stand in fear of none living-and to intimidate you, who are a woman." 
               "He is my brother, and you once sought his life!" she began. 
               "I defended mine from the attack of a madman!" broke in Tyrrel. 
               "He thought you was robbing the brother of a sister, and he is alone." 
               "It is the wantonness of tyranny on his part, to exact so much from you!" 
               "Alas, he is poor!" said Clara, sadly, "and that embitters men." 
               "And I am not rich! Is that it? Does he seek to trade in you, Clara? I love you too well to suffer that! and if the rumour that I hear be true--" Here Tyrrel broke short. 
               "The rumour! what rumour?" And she trembled in every limb. 
               "That he is about to bring a young English lord, some early day, here to woo and to wed you!" replied Tyrrel. "But pray be calm-do not look so alarmed!" 
               "For God's sake, say you jest!" she cried, clasping her hands, as, almost fainting, he helped her down. 
               "I do not often jest; but I shall be upon the spot to watch over you," said Tyrrel, with a dark brow. "That at least, belongs to me to do; and so far becomes me to act. If I have foreborne, at your entreaty, to press my love where my heart points out, where my life is bound up, it is at least not much to exact on my part, that you shall not be placed, bound hand and foot, in the possession of another." 
               "Oh, heaven! I would that we had never met!" cried the young lady, in anguish, and clasping her hands. 
               "I would so, too, and for your sake," responded Tyrrel, "since separation and misery is to be the end of all." 
               "Oh, why-why have you returned here to reopen those half closed wounds afresh?" she exclaimed, the tears starting into her eyes. "I was beginning to find some dreary consolation in mere oblivion." 
               "Do you reproach me, Clara?" he sadly asked her. "Tell me that you have ceased to love me-tell me that you have never loved me; and I depart without a murmur." 
               "No, Tyrrel-no!" said Miss Clara. "I cannot belie my own heart. I cannot tell you that-perhaps it would be better for us both if I could; but I must live on and suffer,-ay, Tyrrel, and so must you, though I pity you with all my heart!" 
               "Alas! my own Clara, it is making sad havoc with your beauty. The wreck seems to be coming ere its time--" 
               "And the summer is ended ere its prime!" she added, with a laugh so low and bitter that it struck upon his heart with a renewed shock. "I have gathered but few of its roses, Frank. I have a bouquet that one gave me once. It is in my cabinet. The leaves are whithered enough, but the odours are yet the sweetest I have known. But of this rumour-tell me all you know," she added, with a suddenness that startled him afresh!" 
               "Your brother has met with this rich young nobleman at the Spa. He has cultivated him. They have played largely together, and your brother has been a loser!" 
               "As usual!" she sighed, wearily. "Poor John! It is his doom, and each resort is one more desperate than the other! But what can this have to do with me, Tyrrel?" she continued. 
               "I am not very clear about it," he said, "and I may be in error. But assure yourself that I invent nothing; and the proof is clear, that I say but little. If you do not yourself hear of it, then the rumour must be held as false;-if you do, then you are forewarned, Clara, and the rest remains with you." 
               "Oh, if-if my brother enters into a compact on my behalf--" 
               "What will you do?" asked Tyrrel, quietly. 
               "Do? Why, resist to the very death!" she answered, vehemently. 
                
               "There is yet one thing, Clara!" he said, gravely. 
               "And what is that?" she asked, with some eagerness. 
               "By the custom, by the habit, by the immemorial law of Scotland, you are my wife before man and heaven!" said Tyrrel, solemnly. 
               "Your-wife?" she gasped out, and with a look of alarm. 
               "We have plighted our troth! You have put your hand in mine-you said none other than I should be your husband! I call you by the sacred name of wife even now! Why do you start?" he exclaimed, catching her hand. 
               "Oh, Tyrrel, you frighten-you shock me!" 
               "And I thought to reassure you of a husband's protection!" was his mournful reply; "and you shrink from me in something like terror! What am I to think of this?" he continued, almost sternly. "This does not look like affection-like confidence!" 
               "Because you give to our association a signification which startles me by its clandestine and almost criminal aspect! I had never dreamt of it in this light!" And Clara paused. 
               "And you would not freely wed me-make me your husband, and give me the most sacred and irrefragable of all rights, to protect you from the addresses of a wealthy libertine, whom your brother, in his desperation-like some bankrupt prodigal, some reckless gamester who has but one stake to hazard-would set against the title and the thousands, for which you would be bartered and bought!" 
               "My brother is poor, heartbroken, and sore distraught, I know," she said, proudly; "but he is not what you say, Tyrrel; and you slander the absent. You say that of him in his absence which you would not say to his face!" 
               "By heaven, I would!" 
               "As men would say rash and reasonless things in their rebelious anger; but I say he is too noble to do this-to dream even of it! Say that you do but try to terrify me, Tyrrel, and I will bless you!" 
               "Alas! Clara, I speak before heaven as I believe; but I see you do not put faith in me, or what I say; therefore you must learn the real facts from other lips than mine, and derive confirmation from other sources. This, nevertheless I must impress on you, lest it should be possible for your brother, by persuasion or by force, to give your hand to another-you are my wife! But do not think that I will force your obedience against your will-do not suppose for a moment that I will exercise the power with which I am most indisputably invested, to compel that obedience which you do not, of your own free-will, submit to. I place before you your own condition. You are legally, as well as morally, a wife, and you may not, without a sin against heaven as well as a breach of the law, marry any other! And you know that your own attendant is a witness-a credible evidence in this matter!" 
               "And think you I would submit to such an enforcement as you signify?" she exclaimed, with spirit. "They may tear me to pieces with wild horses, but they shall not compel me to this! Sooner would I summon you to my side, and quit my brother's house, my old home, forever!" 
               "And why not now, ere the desperate compulsion comes?" urged Tyrrel. 
               "What!" she exclaimed, reproachfully; "and leave my poor, forlorn brother alone with his shattered fortunes? No, no! We are alone in the world! I consented to surrender you, Tyrrel, on the condition that I should be left to myself alone, and be troubled with never a suitor. Do not press me in this?" 
               "Forgive me! I will not; but I shall be at hand. I am lodging obscurely at a little inn, beyond the town yonder, just across the moor. Should you require my aid-my presence--" 
               "I will summon you. I will send-will call; but I pray and beseech you avoid meeting my brother-he is hot and hasty, and you-you, Tyrrel, are not always calm!" 
                
               "I will do all you wish, Clara, for your sake; but oh, what a sad, miserable farce we are playing, after all!" 
               "It is so; but when was it ever otherwise, when youth and rashness made themselves a compact, and love took no counsel with wisdom or common sense? I have thought of it till my heart was like to crack-my head to throb, almost even to madness!" and seized with a sudden passion of tears, she wrung her hands in fresh bitterness, exclaiming, "This will kill me: I cannot bear it! Oh, Tyrrel! would I were dead and calmly sleeping under the roots and daisies!" 
               "Calm yourself, Clara," he said tenderly, clasping her to his breast, and pressing his lips to her forehead. "Calm yourself it will come some day; meantime have faith in yourself and your husband." 
               "It is time for me to go home. See, the sun is setting in gold and purple over the heathery hills; and soon all that was golden will be bleak and grey-emblem of my own life, in which all seems to be shrouded in winding sheets even while the roses are springing under my feet. Adieu! Tyrrel, adieu!" and she sprang on her pony. 
               "Good bye! Clara," returned Tyrrel. "I do not say farewell; for there is that within me which tells me that we shall meet again. I will not force myself upon you, and I will avoid your brother; but I will be at hand when least expected." 
               And so they parted. 
               This was destined to be an eventful day for Clara Mowbray. Her brother returned home shortly after her own arrival, and from the unsteadiness of his gait, and the glaring of his eyes, the unhappy girl felt something strike against her heart like a presentiment, from which she shrank with a dread more terrible than even the fear of death could impress upon her. Determined, however, to put the best face upon it, after a moment's pause, during which he flung his hat into one corner and clattered with his spurred boots, to a great chair, she sprang up, saying, "Dear John, is that you come home, so early?" 
               "So early? Are you laughing at me?" exclaimed Mowbray, while a dark blush, gathering into a frown, was ominously lowering on his brow. 
               "It is likely to be a wild night. The sun has left a bank of lurid clouds in the west; the winds begin to sob and moan." 
               "So let them," cried her brother, flinging himself into a chair and drawing his hand across his brow,-"so let them! Let them sing dirges-let them be the requiem for the last of the Mowbrays! We are not likely to have many mourners else, Clara!" 
               "No?" 
               She spoke the word with a strange, questioning significance, as though she would have said, "be it so; and best as it is, very probably." 
               Her look seemed to pierce him. It was at once tender and troubled. In the dark after days to come he remembered it. It haunted him at the moment, but it also irritated a temper already tried to the utmost. For a moment he sat gazing into the peat fire, and moodily biting his nails; while his boot beat that nervous reveillee known as the "devil's tattoo." 
               "You look tired-exhausted-worried, dear John! Shall I make you some tea?" 
               "Curse the slops! I'll have some claret! There's yet a bottle left!" he cried, with a feverish wrath. 
               "A dozen, I daresay," responded Clara, carelessly; "but I thought it best to keep it; in illness it is serviceable." 
               "So 'tis, my pretty 'Dorcas,' "he scornfully answered. "Natheless, I'll neither tea nor claret just now; though, by my hand, I have a full right to drink it, having paid so dearly for it." 
                
               "John, my brother," said Clara, laying her thin white hand on his brawny arm,-"do not cast reflections on our dead father." 
               "Why, right again, Clary," he rejoined. "I think I was about to be a little severe, though what the devil that would signify, I don't clearly know." 
               "What disquiets you to-day, John?" asked his sister, as she drew a footstool towards him and took a seat beside his knee. 
               The picture formed by this group of two persons was inexpressibly touching. She, turning up her pale and exquisitly chiselled face to his, with an expression of tenderness and feeling that words can scarcely convey; and he, with his dark orbs flashing a mingled light of irritation and fondness that showed he dearly loved her, whatever other grounds of incompatibility there might exist between them. Looking into his dark brown eyes, and taking his hand in her own, Clara repeated her question. 
               "Only ruin, my little Clary-blackfooted ruin! It has followed me long, and overtaken me at last!" And he laughed the hollow, mocking laugh of despairing men. 
               "Oh, John, John," she cried, "is their never to be one shadow of joy for us more? You have been at the wine-cup and at the card-table." 
               "Ay, wench, have I," he exclaimed, with a wild glee, "and in goodly company, too. I have been with my Lord Etherington-a rich fellow, and hand some-not older than I-a Southron, however; and somehow our Celtic and Saxon blood grows chafed. He lost me a brace of thousands." 
               "And you--" 
               "Why, the fact is, Clary, giving him his revenge, I lost them back. Egad! he had his own, and a little of mine!" 
               "You have lost, then?" exclaimed Clara. 
               "I think I said so!" was his sententious answer. 
               "I have warned you of this, John, before," said his sister; "I have shown you that ruin lay beyond." 
               "It's outside the door, wench. Open it, and let it in. By the devils! had it but a bodily form and shape, methinks I could grasp it by the hand! Oh, Clara, my sister, was I born for this miserable end?" and enfolding his face in his hands, he uttered a sob so deep that it stirred the very depths of her being. 
               "Is it so bad, John?" she simply asked, laying her hand on his shoulder. 
               "I have lost a thousand pounds-I have not a thousand shillings! I have betted at the Carse of Peebles, and I have pledged my name for some hundreds within a week." 
               "You know that I have five hundred a year, John," said his sister. "You are welcome to it! My father's son shall not feel his sister desert him in his worst strait!" 
               "Clara, you are an angel!" he cried, leaping to his feet, clasping her to his breast, and kissing her cheek. "Shall I rob you of your pitiful money? If you will know the truth, I have borrowed some little on that already!" 
               "Oh, heaven! oh, great Father! stretch forth Thy hand over two orphaned creatures, against whom fate and circumstances seem to have conspired!" 
               As Clara gasped forth these words, she sank on her knees, burying her face in her hands. 
               "Yes, Clara," continued her brother, in the low tones of a man who feels that he must reply to the straight-forward question; "and what is more-and my chances are small enough, even with odds in my favour-this same young lord has not hesitatad to take my name-my promise-my bare word-in the handsomest way." 
               "It is the road to ruin, is it not, John-even if the journey be not done and over?" 
                
               "There's a way, however, to avert it," he said, bending down his head. "This young lord is a handsome fellow, and a generous one. He has seen you at some ball or other, and taken a mighty fancy to you." 
               Like a flash of lightning Tyrrel's words leaped to her ears. They struck with fell and dire forboding upon her heart. 
               "You have thought it over, and settled it, then, in your own mind?" asked Clara, with a quick and jealous glance. "I am afraid it will not serve your turn-that the proposed remedy comes a little of the latest." 
               "At the last ball you went to, you danced with him. A likely lad, and a handsome--"began Mowbray. 
               "I think I recollect," she said, carelessly; "but I thought I disliked his haughty air, and his supercilious smile. Do you know that we did not agree at all?" 
               "I think that you were petulent," said her brother. 
               "Because the handsome young lordling was offensive." 
               "Nay, he tells me he does not dislike your spirit." 
               "So, so! My Lord Etherington would forget our difference, and make me his lady-wife? Upon my word, brother, I am very much puzzled to know how, being young, rich, and handsome, your fine Southron would compensate himself by wedding one so poor, so dowerless, as Clara Mowbray!" 
               "We have as good blood as he," began her brother, fiercely. 
               "And you would not object to show which is the redder of the two-his or yours. Well, go on!" 
               "He thinks you are the most beautiful woman he has ever met with. He has expressed himself with so much warmth and enthusiasm-spoke so fairly and openly-that I have pledged myself to use all my interest in his behalf." 
               "What has been the price at which you have sold me, John?" asked Clara, in a low, dry tone, but fixing him with her feverish eye. 
               Had she driven a stiletto into his heart, the question could not have been productive of a more startling result. He turned deadly pale, shrunk away from her all of a tremble, and his eyes filled with a sullen, lurid fire, that showed she had indeed touched on a chord which it was well not to strike too closely. 
               "Do you know what you say? do you know what you dare to insinuate?" be began, his face purple again with rage. 
               "Forgive me, John!" she said; "but also spare me! I cannot meet him-indeed, I cannot! I will not, if you will have the word! And now let us suppose all this decided and settled, and nothing more said about it. There are but two of us in the world, and I know not why the one should be the misery of the other." 
               "And I-what am I to do?" he groaned, sinking into a chair. "I have lost to him. He holds my bonds for I know not how much, and ruin and dishonour stare me in the face." 
               "Ruin may, for I have seen it coming; but not dishonour. Do not seek to spare yourself by sacrificing your sister, John!" 
               "And yet you alone can save me! urged her brother. 
               "It must not, cannot be!" she replied "It is impossible! There exists an obstacle which cannot be overcame!" 
               "I guess it, and I guess the reason!" he exclaimed, starting to his feet. 
               "You?" and, in turn, she became pale as a lily. 
               "I met Tyrrel on the moor, to-night. I'll swear it was him! I thought we had met for the last time; but it is clear that I must have my hand on his throat, and my dirk in his wame, ere I am quit of him, once and forever!" 
               "Harm him not, on your life!" cried Clara, with an energy that" startled him. "Dare but to lift a hand against him, and I, even I, myself, will turn round upon you, and lay ban and curse upon you!" 
                
               "Indeed, mistress!" cried Mowbray, seizing her arm with a grip of iron. "Is it so with you, and are you so far his defender? There's more in this than meets the eye; and you have been at some of your queer cantrips in my absence to France. But I'll ferret it out-I'll have the heart of your secret! The honour of the family is not to be periled for the sake of an adventurer." 
               "Especially when a rich lord is willing to buy its daughter with a peck of gold!" cried Clara, sarcastically; "and will wipe away the brother's gambling debts!" 
               "By heaven, you are enough to drive a man mad! But as I have your interest, your honour, and your safety to look after, I swear, by heaven! you shall see him-receive him-listen to his suit!" 
               "I refuse! Do you hear? I refuse! I will soon send him hence, I promise you! I will quit this roof-wander barefoot and breadless through the world first, and death will soon give me relief from this intolerable persecution?" 
               "Clara, you are wrong to treat me thus!" he cried in agitation, walking to and fro, and exhibiting an uneasiness far from common to him. "You have clandestinely renewed an acquaintance with this Tyrrel, whom I must shoot down like a dog; and you refuse, with the wantonness of mere girlish petulance, a chance such as the daughters of the proudest houses would jump at. Have a little consideration for me, Clara-for yourself, even-and do not rashly reject him, who comes with an honest heart and large fortune to lay at your feet.. This very evening I expect him; do not, therefore, drive me to extremities!" 
               "This evening?" 
               "Ay, this evening. So be warned-be obedient-be tractable, or it may be that the bloody hand which is in the shield of our house has a significance deeper than heraldry!" 
               "It is possible!" and she shuddered. "Well, you shall have your way. Leave me at peace until the evening; and then--" 
               "Be it so: till then let there be peace. I go to prepare for his reception. Until then, I leave you to the quiet occupation of your own apartments." And with a sullen, lowering, but determined brow, John Mowbray left his sister's presence, in order to await the arrival of the Earl of Etherington. 
               Grey, cold, and lowering the night set in. 
               The winds awoke, the rain fell, and the thunder rumbled dolefully in the sky. A stormy and a dismal night had come, but Lord Etherington had come before it. 
               His lordship and Mr. John Mowbray dined together, and cracked their bottle together, and once more the fatal cards were introduced. Mowbray, who was blinded by his impatience, did not see what was obvious onough, that he had not the slightest chance with his opponent, and that his losses were appalling. 
               At last the conversation turned upon Clara. For some time they held an earnest colloquy; conditions were propounded and accepted. 
               John pledged his sister's hand to the young nobleman, and with a determined will, and a slightly reeling gait, he arose in order to introduce Clara to his guest, despite the more politic advice of the other, who proposed to let it stand over until the morning, at least. 
               Obstinate in this, as in most things, he wended his way to his sister's apartment, and finding the door fastened, began to knock loudly for admission. 
               No one opened the door-no voice responded to his summons. 
               At first irritated, then angered; he grew alarmed, and summoning Clara's maid and the servants, gleaned nothing from them-Miss Mowbray not having been seen coming forth since early evening. 
               By a desperate effort, since to his repeated calls no response came, he forced the door open. 
                
               The chamber was empty! Her bed-room lay beyond; he entered that-the bird was flown! 
               A window opening upon a balcony, or terrace, leading to the gardens, showed what easy means of egress she had found; but looking forth into the black and stormy night, with the wind howling and the rain falling in torrents, a dreadful fear fell upon him, and presently every creature of the household was out, with pine torches, seeking through ravine and woodland, and at last across the moor, for any traces of the poor fugitive. 
               It was murk midnight-the stars extinguished-thunder, lightning, sleet, and fierce autumn blasts, all mingling together, when Tyrrel, who had just retired to his bed-chamber, in a little moorland tavern where he had taken his lodging, fancied he heard a faint moaning cry, and that his own name was spoken. 
               He listened intently. Again, distinct, but clear, it came. 
               "Tyrrel! help!-help me!-I faint!-I die! Pity me, and take me in?" 
               He had already sprang down the stairs, candle in hand, and opening the door, there sank across the threshold the drenched, storm-beaten form of poor Clara, whose pallid face, dishevelled hair, dripping garments, and bleeding feet formed an object so piteous to look at, that the strong man burst into tears, as he lifted her up, and bore her half inaminate form to a couch, while his land-lady came to his aid. 
               "My poor bruised dove!" he said; "my darling-my own sweet Clara! Is it thus-thus-we meet once more?" 
               "I am-happy now," she murmured. "Kiss me, Tyrrel-kiss me, my husband! I shall not see the morrow's light-but-you will close my eyes! Tell my-brother-I forgive him-Bless you!" 
                
               Ere the morning dawned, her broken spirit had fled. Terror and the storm had done its work! Mowbray lost his sister-the Earl returned unwedded to England-Tyrrel was untimely widowed;-and only this sad memento of St. Ronan's Castle remains to tell the mournful story. 
             
             
               RACHEL. 
               THE first time I ever saw Aunt Rachel was under painful circumstances. My mother was taken violently ill with lung fever, and my father sent for Aunt Rachel to come and mind her. She arrived at Hawthorne late in the evening of a bleak November day, bringing comfort, and almost happiness. I remember her now, just as she stood within the dimly lighted parlour, the crimson folds of her shawl falling around her tall elegant form; and the single white feather turning gracefully over her bonnet of plain drab. Everything that pertained to Aunt Rachel possessed a living, distinct grace-a grace like nothing else in life. 
               I was sitting, half hidden by the drapery of a window, weeping bitterly; for they told me that my mother had but a little while to live; and with all a young child's outgushing affection, I was nigh heart-broken. 
               Aunt Rachel came towards me, and drew me gently to her side. 
               "Mary's own image," she said, in her low, melodious tones; "my child, I am your mother's only sister-your Aunt Rachel. Are you glad that I have come?" 
               She looked down into my eyes with a smile peculiarly her own; I could only throw my arms around her neck, and murmur over the name which I had scarcely learned, but which, from the very first, had seemed so very sweet to me. 
               "Aunt Rachel! Dear Aunt Rachel!" 
               She kissed me very softly, and then glided away up stairs to my mother's chamber. I saw her no more until the next morning, at breakfast; and her sad, sweet image daguerreotyped itself upon my memory for ever. 
               Aunt Rachel was not old-she could not have been more than twenty-seven. In form, she was above the medium height of women, slender and graceful. Her complexion was clear, almost transparent; and a shadow of suffering lay darkly upon her forehead, and lingered far back in the depths of her soft, hazel eyes. Her hair was wreathed around her head in glossy waves of brown; and a few stray locks which had escaped from their confinement, fell over her neck in shining curls. 
               She remained with us until my mother, contrary to the expectations of us all, rallied, and grew better. Then, when all danger was over, Aunt Rachel went away to her own home, where other duties called her, promising, however, to come again for a visit in early summer. 
               Sitting one day in my mother's chamber, I said, somewhat abruptly, "mother, what makes Aunt Rachel so pale and quiet? Did she never have any one to love her?" 
               My mother smiled-a sad smile-and passing her hand lightly over my hair, she asked, "how came you to think of these things-so far beyond your age, my child? Aunt Rachel is not a gloomy woman!" 
               "Gloomy? Oh, no, mother; but there is something very far off in her dear, soft eyes; and then, when she speaks, her voice is like the summer wind in the low pines-at least it seems so to me." 
               "Mildred, you have strange fancies, much like poor Rachel," she added, musingly. "Your aunt Rachel has known sorrow; but it is all over now, and she is a very happy, holy woman-just such a woman as I would wish my own little daughter to become." 
               My mother turned away to hide the gathering moisture in her eyes; and I went down stairs, and out upon the snowy walk, thinking very solemnly of Aunt Rachel. 
               Six years went by with all their varied changes, and in that time I had grown to a tall girl of fifteen. I had seen Aunt Rachel but once in the interval-her mother was dead, and my grandfather's health needed her undivided attention. Ever in her love-missions to my mother, there came for me some little token of remembrance, and these things were held by me in a sacred corner of my heart, to be looked at only when oppressed by those vague, uncertain fits of sadness, which have been my portion from earliest youth. 
               At length there came a letter with a mourning border and a black seal! My mother opened it with trembling hands; and, after reading it tearfully to the end, she bowed her head on her folded arms and wept unrestrainedly. I stole softly up to her, and asked her why she grieved. 
               "Your grandfather is dead, Mildred! My poor father, dead and buried-and his eldest child not there! But in my sorrow I am unmindful of my suffering sister, Mildred, Aunt Rachel wishes you to go to her and remain a few months. The great house is very lonely now, she says. Will you go?" 
               "Go? to be sure I will! But, mother, can you spare me so long?" 
               Two days after the reception of Aunt Rachel's letter, I was on the way to her residence. It was a long journey for me to undertake; but my young heart was brave, when I thought of the comfort I should be to my bereaved relative. 
               At the end of four days' travelling by steamboat and rail, I was set down in a grand old country village, evidently once the abode of riches and taste. A cab took me from the station to "The Firs," the name of Aunt Rachel's estate. Everything along the way was very fine and attractive; but I scarcely noticed it, so absorbed was I in the wish of seeing, for the first time, my mother's birth-place. 
               We ascended a steep hill, crowned with sturdy maples; and low in the valley ley before us, the driver pointed out The Firs. It was, even as my fancy had pictured it, a place lovely enough for the abode of enchantment! A broad, bright river swept the base of the hill, and over it was thrown a rude bridge of white stone; crossing this bridge, and we were upon the domain of my ancestors. Looming up dark and sombre in the approaching twilight, the old house formed a magnificent contrast with the background of blue hills, steeped now in the last golden glow of sunset! The fir trees, from which the place took its name, were very numerous, and almost gigantic in their growth of a century. 
               At the extremity of a long, shaded path, the chaise stopped; and from its dingy window I saw the great hall door unclose, and the form of Aunt Rachel appeared. At sight of my eager face, she came rapidly down the walk; and in a moment I was folded in her arms. I do not remember what she said to me; it was not much in words, but a volume in tenderness. 
               Into the old house she took me; and then in the ruddy fire-light, I saw how much she was changed. Her face was almost corpse-like in its extreme pallor; and yet it might have been partially the effect of the deep mourning which she wore. But she had the same true, loving heart, I knew; and so I passed silently over her altered looks, and thought much of the secret grief of which my mother had spoken. 
               I had spent several weeks with Aunt Rachel-weeks of sweet communion with her gifted, refined nature-when she was taken ill. The physicians said it was slow consumption; but I knew that it was only the heavy pressure of sorrow-a lingering disease, which gradually wasted away her life. Through all the long, bright summer, she sat by the windows of her home, and looked not on the green meadows, thinking, it seemed to me, of the far-off land where the noontide of glory is never shadowed! She would not permit me to leave her; and indeed I did not wish to. She had devoted servants who loved her deeply; but their care could not be reckoned by the side of the love and respect I felt for her. My mother's manifold duties at home completely precluded the idea of her visiting Aunt Rachel, even for a brief period; and my aunt ever unmindful of self, would not allow me, in my letter to my mother, to speak of her as being very ill. 
               Autumn brought not healing to my Aunt Rachel. Very slowly she faded, like the withering of a leaf-the dying away of a star before the coming day. I could not think her near the dim portals; but her vision-sharpened as it approached the shores of eternity-ere long discerned the Unknown, rising in the void future! 
               Once, in the moonlit night, she called me to her bedside. 
               "Sit down, Mildred," she said, "and I will tell you the history of a blighted heart. You have often wondered why I have never married. I will tell you why. It is but a brief story; but its learning has cost me much of what men call sorrow and suffering! The last act in the drama is at hand, and the curtain will fall, to rise in another world! The morning light which enters these windows, Mildred, will shine upon a corpse! But there is an hereafter!" 
               For a moment, Aunt Rachel seemed to lose herself in a sort of silent ecstasy; then, dropping her eyes from their fixed gaze upon the purple sky of night, and taking my trembling hand in hers, so cold and nerveless, she continued: 
               "Early in my life I was betrothed to one noble and good-one before whom my whole being bowed down in homage. Lord Ernest Harcourt was of a proud family; but I was wealthy, and his parents did not oppose the choice of their son. In a dream of bliss our lives fled on. We were too happy to break the charm by assuming even a dearer relationship, and we had been engaged four years without once talking seriously of the marriage-day. One afternoon a servant brought me a card, bearing the name of my friend, Isabella Courtney. I sprang eagerly down the stairs, and was locked in the embrace of my dearest Isabel. Mildred, I loved that girl as I have loved but few; at school she was my confidante, my best friend; in after years she had made me blessed with her warm, true love. We talked together, as all girls will, of old friends, old associations and vanished joys; and after a time we spoke of the present. Isabel's father, she said, had heard so much of the salubrity of our air, that he had been induced to come to our village for a brief sojourn, and allow Isabel to visit her old friend. In the course of our conversation she inquired for Lord Ernest Harcourt; and I learned for the first time, that he was a friend of hers, a college-companion of her only brother. She blushed when she spoke his name; but I scarcely noticed it. Ernest was above suspicion! I exerted all my powers of persuasion, and at last succeeded in inducing Isabel to promise that she would make her home at 'The Firs,' while she remained in town; and immediately I despatched a servant to bring up her baggage, and inform Mr. Courtney of the change. Too soon, alas, too soon! I discerned a fatal secret. With the whole energy and strength of her life, Isabel Courtney loved Ernest Harcourt. Every faculty of her being was absorbed into one desire-that of winning his love. 
               Well I knew that a disappointment would be the death-warrant of my friend's reason; for hereditary in her family was the fearful curse of insanity! Experienced physicians, who had examined Isabel's mental organization in her youth, had declared her free from taint; but bade her parents, as they valued her happiness, to subject her to no disappointment, or excitement which could possibly be avoided. My resolve was taken. My own happiness was sacrificed to that of my friend! I told it to Ernest; and he fought against fate with a vain rebellious strength. It was a terrible struggle-but I conquered him, and gained his promise to the sacrifice. They were married. I stood quietly by his side, and heard him pronounce the words which bound him to another! The assurance that I was doing what I deemed my duty, upheld me. Isabel was made happy, and my young, strong life battled on. I triumphed over my grief. I put it far away from me, and in active works I sought to forget even its memory. Partially I succeeded. Four years had Lord Ernest been gone away from me-for directly after his marriage he had taken his bride abroad-and one afternoon, as I was sitting at my work in the sunlight, a shadow fell over me. I raised my eyes, and the form of Ernest Harcourt stood before me! I stifled the shriek that came to my lips, and rising from my seat, stood up beside him. 'Rachel, I have come to you to die!' he said, brokenly.-'And Isabel?' I asked, breathlessly. 'Has slept under the sod of Italy seven months.'-He died here, in this very chamber, Mildred, where my own life is waning. In my arms he rested, and my kisses closed his eyes in their eternal sleep!" 
               "With the early morning blush, Aunt Rachel passed away. We stood by her bedside, I, and her sorrowing servants and neighbours, and watched her while her spirit crossed the dark waters. She died even as she said, "the morning light shone upon a corpse!"-but in the air which stole so softly through the faded woodbine over the lattice, I fancied I could almost hear the angels chanting the new song, over a soul borne from earth's trials to rest forever in Paradise! 
               THE END. 
             
         
       
   
