
    ----CITATION----
        Webb, Charles Henry, (1834-1905). Liffith Lank, or, Lunacy .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8239
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Liffith Lank, or, Lunacy 
            
               iolu ame    Harper s Magazine. {Janwary 1 Number- 2004                          Jnury  THE Nuamber for December opened the Thirty-follrth Volume HARPER'S MAGAZINE. In this was commenced "The Virginians Texas," aa Tale of Life in  Texas before the War, by GEORGE F. H. RINGTON, Author of 'i Inside: a Chronicle of Secession."     OThis wili continued through the present Volume.    In an early Number will commenced. u The Dodge Club," a series of humorous sketchies, profus illustrated, narrating the observations and adventures of a party Americans in France and Italy dulring the War of 1859.         Gene STROTHER'S "Personal Recollections of the W'ar^ wilt be continued rapidly  as the Author catn r'educe them    to form from   his Jouri and Sketch-Book While the Magiazine will continue to be maimly composed of Or inal Articles by American Writers, due attention will be given th6  best productions of European Authors.   The Mfagazine, containing fi-4 ifty to one hundred per cent- more matter than any other American English periodical of its class, affords space for papers of forei origin? besidesfurnishing more purely American reading than any its cotemporaries.   The Conductors will spare neither labor nor i pense to render the IMagazine worthy of the unezampled favor wi which it has heretofore been received by the Press and the Public. Terms for Harper's Magazine and Weekly for 1867. Taperr s Magazine, One Copyfor, One Year, ..     . ... . $4 00 SarperOs Wee ly,    One Copy for One Year,  ......    4 00 An extra copy of eifther the Weekly or the Magazine will be supplied gratis to every C of Five subscribers at $4 each, in one remittance, or Six Copies for $20. Bound Volumes of the Magazine, each volume containing the numblers for six mont will be furnished for $3 per Volume, and sent by mail, postage pald. Bound Volumes theWeekly, each Volume containing the numbers for one ear, will be ftlrnished for $7 Tfrei paid. *** A limited number of ADVERTISHMENTS will be inserted in the Magazine at the follc ing rates: One page, $250; one half page, $1L25 one quarter page, $70; -or one dollar a fifty cents a line for a less space. Thbe Circulation of the Magazine is larger than that of a Pinilar periodical in the world. Advertisements will also be inserted in the Weekly at c dollar and fifty cents a line on the insi 'e, and two dollars a line on the outside, for ea insertlon: where advertisements are displayed, the charge will be for the number of so lines contaiued in the space which is occupied.    AUTHOR'S EDITION.   PVERTURE      OF    SELECT     TEXTS. -  THE  are of madmen as there are of tame, A1l humored not alike. Some Apish and fantastic."     DEgKKER -  Strike out I and the world shall revere us As heroes descinded from heroes." EON. JOHN MOBtSSEY. "Verily, is he not a man and a Bother?"--HE. G. - Tyghhygh, tygh hygh I O sweet delight! He tickles this age who can; Calls Tuallia's ape a marmosite, And Leda'^ goose a swan." BRITISH BIBLIOGRAPHER. "Passengers who hence would journey Unto St. Thomas, Brazil, Savannah, or Havana, Will comfort, speed, And safety much insure By passage taking on our lines of steamships,  The office being at 5 Bowling Green." GARRISON & ALLEN. ' There is a chain of causes  Linked to effects; invisible necessity, that whatever is, could not but so have been." !,/ DRYDEN. "There, I told you so 1" A VETERAN OBSERVER. - Read, ye that run, the awful truth With which I charge my page.'     COWPR. "Marry, come up! as ot bells there is a din- Friends, let us dine." "     W. STUART. "I hold that man a fool who would his life imperil For a woman who loves him not." W. SHAKSPEAR. "Ah t that is the mystery Of this wonderful history."     sOUxIE. "I hath not seen it, -my gentle boy." J. R. OSGooD. "Hruman nature is full of inconsistencies." D-LEWIS LaLAND. Tiake this in good part, whatsoever thou be, And wish me no worse than I wish unto thee." TUSSER.    "F:,TH LAHE;'  OR, "U'NAAY.' BY 03 . H. WEBB. F   -^r ; - E  . 3 ZVZ;srsXs loAz   sr so. smZw     , JB. QUOTATIONS BY VARIOUS AUTHORS. For in this world, to reckon every thing, Pleasure to man there is none comparable As is to read with understanding In books of wisdom. - They ben so delectable  Which sound to virtue, and ben profitable. TREV" 'Nttos'Ywfctt C2ssroxt m17.V;r8ZXJ?, 499 1O21DIWOT. MDCCCLXVI.    TO THE  WHO FIRST PUBIMTSWmn THS TRAVESTIE AN THE NEW-YOBk TIMES, AND WHO -HAS CUT OUT-MOREI PRINTED LESS OF, AND UNIFORMLY PAID blivfTi PRICES FOR MY CONTRIBUTIONS THAN ANY OTHER EDITOR LIVING9 THS LITTLE VOLUME IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATRA,   Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1866, by O. H. W-BB, In the ClerA Ofice ofut the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New-York.    BY WAY OF EXPLANATION.  For the leading idea of this little story, let me frankly con- fess that I am indebted to Mr. Charles Reade. ILjrjmr   LANK is, in great measure, the legitimate offspring, or rather offshoot, of "Griffith Gaunt," which will account for any similarity that there may be between the two raTnifications.  For the general style and the typographical effects -introduced, I am also indebted to Mr. Reade; but, having said thus much, all is said. For the illustrations I am only indebted to Eytinge-not having yet paid that eminent, excellent, and patient artist for his labors. .  Originally published in the New-York   imes, I was persuaded to consent to the republication of the travestie in its present form.  And I will take this occasion to say, that I am   ready and, in fact, eager, to be persuaded to consent to the republic- tion of any thing I have ever written-provided some onb else can be found to incur the expense and risk. If my little book amuses the public, I shall be pleased; if it pays I shall be more than pleased; for      I "My soul is not a palace of the past, Where priest-worn creeds, like Rome's gray Senate, quake, Hearing afar the Vandals trumpet hoarse. The time is ripe and rotten ripe for CANa. Then let it come!" C. HO W.   -LLUSTRATIONS. -- PORT AT OF KATE.-In this cut the cross-cut given to the eyes by the artit, is particularly noticeable. THE FOX-HUNT.--Showing how well Rate was calculated to overlook things about a house-or a hedge. THB DUEL.-Illustrative of what a woman can do, if she chooses, and can manage to borrow a piebald charger, THB DECLARATION.-Liffith leaning against the turret, and establishing a life-lien on Eate. THBs LADY'S MAI.-Mrs. Ryder dressidg her mistress' hair-combing it rather strong. THE MODERN CRADLE.-Mercy points to it-Liffith sees the point, but does not like the game. \ DRAGGING TIE MER -A mere fancy sketch,-executed by Eytinge in a pensive and retrospective hour. THt9 APoTEosIs.-Stowing what a man may achieve if he has the industry to marry two wives, and some one to right him up after ward-especially designed for the example and encour- agement of young-men. OR, -'LVUN  AY. A TALE:A THAT 1HE: wO RUUNS MAY RtFAT-nB CHAPTER   I. t SAY I, then, that losel shall never 'blacken ,^^  my boots again!" "Say I, then, they are my boots, and not yours, and that faithful serving-Tnan shall brighten them whenever he will." The gentleman and lady who indulged in this little interchange of compliments before break- fast were man and wife, and had loved each other a Little but not Long. Scant the encour- agement to matrimony which my opening epi- sode affords, but the Great Artists duty is im- perative-^et vitam iwpendere vero / Here a little explanation is necessary-not of my  atin, for that will be fonds among. the "Words, Phrases, and Qaotations from Foreige  . +   8      LIIPITfH LANK. Languages" in the appendices of all modern dictionaries-but of my plan. In medio tutis- simus ibis Safety lies in the middle, both in parting hair and beginning stories. On that hint I have acted. To begin now with the be-  ginning: I; Miss Katrine Phaeton was a young lady of Cucumberland, born of rich but respectable *  - parents. Her hair -a Pae aeeewas golden, hereyes brdy    thgray. She had a carel ousew d g ashion of doing up cod notfatoobsetwothe former thatpuz- the wer grn  ned, her rivals, and pupi was whuof using the- latter ir ovr o   that bewildered her victims. The secret ,epes jwolha   of her chignon was eyedbu         kniwaoyown to none. As 7.  XI pi; 9 for her eyes, she had Kate Phaeton and her eyes. (Photographed a way of turning br Bradyr.) s them on slowly, as careful housewives do-gas, so that the victim could not fail to observe- two th;igs: first, that they were grand and, beautiful orbs, though the pupil was without a master; secondly, that they were overlooking him instead of looking at him. Some persons would have Thought - her cross8 eyed-but it was only a way she, had.   L IPFFITH LANK.      1 9 So contemplated by such curious eyes, a man feels queer. He doesn't know whether he is being looked at or not. She was rather charitable, and made no bones of giving all the cold victuals about the house to the poor. All she required in return from those around her was, that they should be Ro- mana Catholics, and do precisely as she wished them to do in every thing. Singularly enough, much uglier and richer girls married on all sides of her, but this eccentric beauty remained Miss Phaeton at two times twenty. She hunted once a month, and was at home in the saddle-but did not give her receptions there. So admirably balanced was her charac- ter, that, notwithstanding her love of the manly sport, she had no ambition to be a jockey nor a groom. But one day they drew Yewtree Bow, and out shot a fox. A hedger saw him shoot, and gave the view halloo; and away across country, like new brooms, swept dogs, horses, and men. But, notwithstanding all this enum- eration, Duv famina facti- and so it was, Deuse takes the hindmost. It was a gallant chase, and our dreamy vir- gin's back got up. Her golden hair streamed and her gray eyes watered, as lithe and blithe- she sat upon her great white gelding, -riding over huntsmen as well as hounds, and jump ing dithes and hedges where the- stoutest stee-   10     -LIFFITH LANE. ple-chase riders of the county were stuck and staked.  Having outridden and jumped over every body and every thing, Miss Phaeton was naturally soon next to the fox, and saw that sagacious animal when he, not wishing to be run over, glided into Doewood Un- der ore.  The huntsmen   and hounds were at this time so far in- arrears that they mistook the great white geld- and the back-hbair -of the dreamy vir- ni1 for his brush. at Miss Phae- ton so- long and, still upon her horseo at the cor- ner of the under- wood, that, she fell into a deep reverie, and did not see he fox when he stole out, though her eyes werei;ent   IF PITH LANX.       " in that direction. The fox thought she was look- ing at him, but here the peculiarity of those grand and beautifiul orbs made itself apparent- she was overlooking him. Huntsmen and hounds were swearing and tearing in all directions, but Miss Phaeton sat quietly and turned over in her head a plan for converting all the world to Roman Catholicism. Not so her horse.  He plunged and then didn't, and then trembled all over and planted his forefeet together at this angle \. At the same moment he slanted his hind-legs thus /. The following was then the position: / \. It mayilbe mathematically stated thus: So braced he could not move a peg; a horse divided against himself can not stir-quod erat demonstrandum. But he looked a deal more statuesque tAan any three statues in England- as may readily be- imagined. And, by the by, the gentlemen who" carve horses in our native style, did they ever see one in that fix-out of a picture-book    - The whipper-in came up and was somewhat surprised at the attitudes of both horse and rider. Prom that of the former he thought that the fox had popped out; from that of the latter that Liffith Lank, who was in the neighborhood, had either popped or was expected to. It never occurred to his simple soul that a meeting of the hounds could be converted into a meeting of the Congregatio de Propaganda Fide.   12     LIJPFITH LANK. However, a huntsman came up and-made bold to touch his hat, and ask her if she had seen nothing of the fox.  She toyed with the horn that hung at her girdle, looked him dreamily in the face, and replied, "Yes." He blew his own horn lustily, and asked which way Pug had gone. Upon which Miss Phaeton looked him dreamily in the face again and made answer that she did not know. "But didst, not. say thou saw's t him-2" "Not so, sweetheart," said. she, laying her hand upon his arm softly and smiling sweetly. "You asked had I seen nothing of the fox, and I replied, yes-Band I have seen nothing of the fox.7 Thereupon the huntsman took a small but sizable flask from his pocket, put it to his lips and wound, another horn, for he now saw what the dreamy virgin was at. He understood that she had overlooked the fox. Couple up and go home to supper!" said Miss Phaeton, sublimely disregardful that it was not' supper-time, and of the object'which had brought forty dogs' and men and horses and her- self to the field. "The fox is in his hole by this time." And touching spur to her horse, she jumped over the astonished huntsman's head, and cantered' slowly home across country, as  though nothing had happened.   "PFITH LANK.       13 Courage, mes amis!" remarked the huntsman to his friends, as he rearranged the Amidon which the hoof of the great white gelding had grazed and damaged, thinking the while that it was the Fall fashion, and had cost ten dollars- "Courage, mes amis, le d(iable est mort /" Miss Phaeton had not ridden many miles when Liffith Lank galloped up to her side. In expec- tation of this event, she had been holding in her impatient horse for the last half-hour. "Is it you, Liffith V" she cried, with a sudden start of surprise; "who would have thought it!" Mark you the woman there. Why, think you, the grand and beautiful orbs overlooked the fox when he broke cover at Dogwood Undermore I Why, think you, she broke up the hunt? Let me whisper it to you in small type- The fox was not her little game I O THE   SEX!  Slowly they galloped along together, the white gelding leading. For, in this instance, Liffith's gray mare was not the better horse. "Kate," spoke Liffth, "I've been courting you nigh upon three years, and now there's an- other lad come into court. Mayhap you think me a ladder. It is time you said me yes or no. I love you, Kate, and how could you be so cruel as love any other man? There, let me get off my horse and lie down on the stubble, and you   "     LIFFITH LANE. ride over me. I would rather have you tram- ple on my ribs than below the belt; but choose your own turnpike, Dearest-and any way, I've a policy of insurance against accidents in my  pocket. -"Wilt have me, Kate a" (That was the way they made love on horse- back in the' middle ages, before the invention of parlors and easy-chairs and bay-windows and turbine water-wheels.) Miss Phaeton turned her glorious eyes upon her lover. "'What think you, Tiffith, of the Doctrine of Transubstantiation 8" said she soft- ly, looking him dreanily in the face. Lifflth muttered- a word which, under the cir- cumstances, might be called an allowable rhyme, and dashing the spurs into- his horse, rode fierce- -ly away. A casual observer might have thought Miss Phaeton was looking after him. Not so; the peculiarity of those grand and beautiful orbs - again came in ; she saw but the moon. * '  .  -JC*    "FFITH LANK.       15 CHTAPTER II. I IS PRTAFTON rode home and found t w  another lover's horse at the gate. She smiled: "Two beaux on a string are quite as good as two strings to a bow," thought she.  Old Joe, -the groom, who had served long and faithfully in the family on board wages, hobbled out: "Mistress Kate," said-he, "have you seen Tnffith Lank anywheres?a The young lady colored at this question, and replied she didn't know. This was one iof wo- main's W I1S lIS.-- "But why 2 she asked. "Why V repeated old Joe, "all the girls in town be runnin' after un now. The blinds be down at Bolton Hall, and they do say as 'ow the old Squirei be dead. Here be a letter sealed with black for -MasterT Liffith." Miss Phaeton took the letter, opened and read ' it. The news was brief but good, and the grand and glorious orbs brightened. Old Mr. Churl- ton was dead, and Tjffith was heir to Bolton Hall. Carefully resealing the letter, she told Joe   ;16     LIIFFITH L A NE. to drop it into the post-office, and bolted into the house. In the hall, she met George Neverill. He was a young mnan, handsome and accomplished ; had traveled on the Continent and in America; had made love to all the women he met, and was in nowiseftroubled with bashfulness nor doubt of his own merits and good looks. ' I love you, Kate," said he, putting his arm round the young lady's waist. "I love youbet- ter than I loved Mimi, or Marguerite, or Isabella, or Beatrice, or Dorothy Jane-the latter being a native of Maine. And the pride of Cucumber- land and pearl of all other lands has but to say the word to be mistress of my heart and of Honiton Grange. Wilt be my wife, Kate?" Honiton Grange suggested Honiton lace, and the lines of the young lady's mouth relaxed. There was a sound as of "P'weep," a succes- sion of similar sounds, decies repetita placebit- and Miss Phaeton dreamily wiped her lips. "Wilt do me a favor, George T" said she. "Ay," replied he, "an' ithe not to shave my head. and turn priest." ("Seest yonder horseman, on the gray mare I He is leaving the country, Ride after and bring him back." "Ay," and George Neverill left with alacrity.  But he returned with alacrity, and came in without rapping.   "P PITH LANKE.       17 "Is not yon gentleman TLiffith Lank?" "Ay," said Kate quietly. "And you wish I should bring him back to you that you may  " "Marry him," put in Kate, looking dreamily in his eyes. George Neverill reached out his hand and shook hers warmly. "I admire coolness," said he, "and this suits me exactly. But go after him you,; and ride my piebald charger." -"You area preux ahevaleri  said Kate;; "excuse me a moment," and vanished-promis- ing to be back in five minutes. George Neverill stood alone. "C'est un peu fort," muttered he to himnself. Five minutes passed, fifteen, twenty, thirty, sixty; it was hard upon his dinner hour, and there was none to ask him to tarry and dine. Mounting Miss Phaeton's horse which stood at the gate, he rode thoughtfully home, telling old Joe it was' all right, and giving him a shilling to drink to his wedding with Miss Phaeton. In the mean while, Kate had overtaken TLiffith, and explained to himn that she would "think about it." He at once promised to build a nun- nery, to take the vail himself, if it would at all avail or conduce to her happiness, and all around them were to be Roman Catholics. In a delightful frame of mind, Miss Phaetoa   -18     L1FPITH LANK. rode home, and on learning that George Never- ill had waited her return until the last stroke-of the dinner hour) averred her belief that he was a good-natured and handsome fellow. On being told that he had ridden the white gelding away, her face fell, but only for a moment. "The pie- bald charger is much the better of the two," said she, and sat joyfully, down to dinner. CXAPTER III. ^I   V I JZ A TION has many meters. Some- '  times these meters imbrue their hands in each other's blood-and all for the want of an international copyright. But forinformation con this head, let me refer you to my book called -the Eighth Commandment. In the present one- my Masterpiec-I intend to treat only of the !Seventh and its infractions. The reader will readily infer that this is not a child' s book-especiallya little girl shook. It is not a boatful of pap, and paps should be careful about introducing it into-the nursery. Prcemon- itus prjQcmunitus. Nice the row when George Neverill rode into the yard of the Roebuck on Miss Phaetof n's great white gelding.   IFFITH LANWK.       19 "You are a liar, and a scoundrel!" cried Lif- fith, striding up to him. It was hard to be worsted ih a horse-trade and then accosted in this abrupt way by a rival. George Neverill ground his teeth-as though he would make meal of his adversary. The rivals measured each other from head to foot, (with a small tape-line which was kindly furnished by one of the waiters,) and Liffith, finding himself a half inch the taller, hesitated no longer, but struck straight out from the shoulder. Amid the darkness which overshaded Never- ill's vision this glittered : Dost recognize the constellation, gentle reader 1 There are other Southern Crosses in our universe besides Mulattoes. uIt is ever too Late to Mend," said Neverill, rg. e a    ther Sth as he picked up his broken noseand left the '8$   20     LIFFITH LANK. v^/^   GCTTAPTER IV. a; HE very next day, Mr. Chouseman took. X^  advantage of an errand in the neighbor- hood, and rode over to see Miss Phaeton. Mr. Chousemnan was a highly respectable solici- tor, who had obtained the position of trust and confidence he occupied, by riding around the country on convenient errands, and inducting young lady acquaintances into the secrets of his clients. So the very next day he rode over to Miss Phaeton, and told her she was in luck. "How T" queried she. "Two young men are going to fight a duel -to the death for you." Tliffith and George VI she carelessly asked, cracking a hickory nut with her white and deli- cate teeth. "   Ay, And both have ma de their wills in your :favor.- Soif-eitherbe killed " "And-f , both T" said Miss Phaeton, with the old -dreamy look in her eyes. 'You have- two estates,' said Chousemail, rubbing -his hands. "But not one husband,^ remarked Miss Phae-   "FPFITH LANK.        21 ton thoughtfully. "Tell them to saddle the pie- bald charger," she immediately cried, turning to an attendant. The two combatants were on the ground, ear- nestly wishing that some peace officer would come in and arrest an affair which had already gone quite far enough to be pleasant. Two shots had been exchanged, to the imminent peril of the seconds, who had both posted themselves behind trees while giving the word for the third fire. "Are you ready " "Yes." ("Yes."     A A Jewel of a tGrl, doing the polite at a Duel.   ^ -     LIFFITF LANK. At this moment the piebald charger stepped quietly in and stood between the --leveled pistols. There were two simultaneous reports. Miss Phae- ton, who never believed reports, paid no atten- tion to either, but caught the bullets gracefully, one in each hand, and returned them with her compliments to the two duelists. Liffith upon his scratched these words : -i love gawe /1 and swallowed it. This act of gallantry, and the patent fact that he-was entirely in the wrong in the quarrel, moved Kate in his favor. "EHow sweet!" she cried. "Ay, Sugar of Lead," muttered the Scotch sur- peon, who happened to be none other than our old acquaintance in the hard cash times Dr. Sampson. Neverill didn't make much out of the ball; but he swopped horses again, and got back the pie- bald charger.  CTCHAPTER   V. ^^yNp  so blind as those that CAN'T see I A pleasant party was assembled in the : late Mr. Churlton's parlor to hear the will read.        * To his faithful servants the deceased gentleman left a shilling each; to an illegitimate son his old   "FFITH LANKI.   '    23 clothes, cut in the fashion of a preceding genera- tion, and the family seal; to TLiffith Ljank-a lock of his hair, and to Miss Phaeton all the balance of his estate, real and personal. Among others who came to congratulate Miss Phaeton came LTiffith, sorrowful and seedy. She looked at him a moment, more in sorrow than in anger. Point d'argent, point de Stisse; no money, no point lace'and Swiss muslin, thought she, but her better nature prevailed. There was enough for two, and her life was monotonous; theretofore her amusements had chiefly consisted in working figures of the saints on samplers, and confessing to Father Francis. A husband would be a pleasant variety, she thought. And Neverill helped the thing along. He pro- posed that she should give Tliffith all of his and her property, and marry him-Neverill. Again the peculiarity of the grand and beautiful orbs came in. Kate looked him dreamily in the eyes, but' she did not see him Nor did she see IT - So she wrote Tjiffith a note, asking him to call on her as soon as convenient, and to come sober. Unfortunately TLiffith, on receiving the note, was so drunk that he could not read it. How- ever, a kind and sober parson, named Eden, read it for him After lying in a snow-bank for an hour or two, which made him feel quite fresh and   ?4     LI PITH LANK. 4      IFITZTI;BlT ,omfortable and presentable, he contrived to stag- ,er beneath Miss Phaeton's window. She put her ovely head out, Ltterlyregardless \ JI i V  ) ' 1 if the elimate,           opc4 he season  , and       cpi neuralgia, ton eor       t  i )hich she was Tbje et of old oe an  Kas  ws 'Artt there T i said he.  itSpeark,  p  aao   ds -earest' Stralightenin9  i 1A BeI I f U  gainst the tur- b   urgin  eo   a eth honest T r alith iccoughed,"    --? "6) I(hie) love 813 lie, hie) hie) :ate, (hichicPopping.-Showing'what the ektract ofPop-comn  ic, hiel          oes The thing -was clone, and, Kate was captivated. Vrong in, the quarrel, poor as a crow drunk as beast, I 'an every body urging her to, marry )mebo0dy else, her affections at once - centred on iflthe -So the- next morning Xfeverill got a note, the mtents of which ran -much as follows:   "IpFFPITH   L ANE.       25 {It having suddenly occurred to me-that you would like to marry me, I have consulted Liffth-to whom I have been en- gaged for three years past-and he thinks you would. Brother Leonard sees nothing wrong in it, inclining to view it as a lauda- ble ambition; but ;iffithi and Father Francis view the matter in a different light. For my part, I am very much surprised, for I have done nothing to deserve such treatment. But I forgive you. Farewell. Be virtuous, join the Roman Catholic Church, and you will be happy. "P. S.-I am afraid you will thinl me a coquette, but I do not think I am one. "P. P. S.-I wish you would get me a few skleins of worsted of the inclosed pattern. "P. P. S.-If you shaved your head, perhaps you would feel etter." - And what answer will you make 8" said Fa- ther Francis, who delivered the note.  "Answer! I'll not waste a      postage-stamp, P i'faith," growled George.  "But r'll carry the message," said the priest. "Then here' s my reply," said George, grinding his teeth, (perhaps because he couldn't have a mill with his rival,) " she's old enough to under- stand French, if she doesn't. Tell her. "Lejeu ne vaut pas la chandelle." "I'm not the first sold by a damsel."; And with that he walked moodily away.        He looked at the sky, and the stars seemed to smile at his angicsh.  Cold and pitiless, the pale moon   26  -   LIFFITH LANK. looked down upon his woe. Longingly he looked for a sign to assuage the grief which gnawed at his heart. Suddenly his eye brightened. Would you behold this great discovery, the same in magnitude and appearance as it met the eyes of the first discoverers, dragged with a rake from the bottom of a bay, opened with a knife, and swallowed by an adventurous mortal, after successive generations had passed it by without deeming it succulent  Then turn your eyes hither, for here it is. Sold, in the cellar he found compensation. ^1 IM YERY ^    II   "FpFIT   LANK."     27 CHAPTER VI. tI FdiTli made a tolerably good husband, as husbands went in those days. Gen- - Aim erally he was able to get up-stairs after dinner without more than two servants to assist himT, and he very seldom got into bed without taking off his, boots. When he did, he was especially careful to remove his spurs. On one occasion, when Liffith forgot himnself with both spurs and boots, Mrs. Lank remon--- strated with him; but he turned upon her, and called her A PRURIENT PRUDE, and threat- ened to drag her before the public; seeing her error, she confessed it. On the whole, their mar- ried life rippled on about as happily as ever mar- ried life does. The main trouble was about "help."  Mrs. Bank was prejudiced against good-looking cham- bermaids, and Liffith was opposed to Roman Catholic serving-men, who excelled in polish in every thing, except in "the matter of polishing boots. This brings us to the openinug of our story. "I say, the hussy shall pack," Mrs. Lank had remarked.   28      lIFFITH LANK. She had asked him, a few seconds previously to bring out his viol da gamba. Alas! her speech i had the effect of bringing out a vial-of wrath  "Say I, then, that losel shall never blacken my boots again." aSay Is then, they are my boots, and not yours, and that faithful serving-man shall bright- en them whenever he will." Here Mrs. Lank was wrong. Because she paid for the boots, by no m eans did it follow that throw them she should every morning in her husband's face. INor, strictly speaking by the letter of the law, were they her boots, whether paid she for them or not. As well have claimed his breeches, might she, and these she coulding more have filled than his boots. Autnqunquam tentes, autperfice. Besides, for the matter of that, they were not boots at all'; they were A PATR  OF HOB- NNAILEET) SHOES. Sometimes Liffith thought that he had got an elephant on his hands-that he might as well have married Mademoiselle D'jek-for at times he did indeed feel much dejected-and been a Jack of all Trades at once. Mrs. TLank had in her employ a lady named Ryder-and ride her mistress she did with a ven- geance. In combing Mrs. Lank's long and beau- tiful hair, tshe tangled and' pulled it viciously; capillary attraction exerted its force to soften her obdurate hearth in vain. Ask you why Ryder   "FFPITH  LANE.       29 was so relentless and remorseless  She loved - jiffith, and pulling his wife's hair was the only way she had of showing it. CMsa laete, vis est / notissina.          - Combing it rather strong. In short, Ryder was a Dangerous Female, and I would not like to ride alone with her on one of the English railways, where the carriages, you must know  are small, and seldom filled. Not content with pulling out her mistress's hair, she was always and forever putting fleas in her mnas- ter's ear. It maynot have been before remarked by our treader, but Liffith's chief besetting sin-aside from his unfortunate habit of getting drunk- was lunacy.  On the subject of priests he was monomaniacal.  He had a way of strangling   30     LIPPFITH LANi. them when they ventured, upon his grounds, which was not only inconvenient to the priests, but distasteful as well to his wife, who had a re- mlarkable respect and fondness for the cloth- sending them soups and gravies till one might have thought it was a table-cloth And Ryder was always egging him on.  One day she nagged and egged him so much that he determined to break the yolk. So he collared a poor devil of a priest with whom his wife happened to be discussing the vicarious powers of the Pope, and shook and trampled him till there was seemingly no life left in him. Black and blue and livid, those who picked the poor priest upthought he was suffering from an attack of the Malignant Collarer. So Liffith, thinking he had killed his man, fled the county, taking with him all his wife's jewels. In his desperation he never drew bridle-rein till-  hle reached an inn in the next county, a good twenty miles away, called the "Packhorse." (Why he did not go further, know I not, but per- chance he was fearful of faring worse.) There he proceeded to unpack, and, having nothing better to do, fell to drinking on an empty stomach, until he drank himself into a brain-fever. -Giffith was always-in luck, and at this inn he found'another woman with grand and beautiful orbs. But this was a dove-eyed angel. When Mercy Vintner looked at things she saw them, -   "FFITH LANK.       . 31 which was more than could be said of Mrs. Tiank. Had not Iliffth possessed the constitution of a horse, he would have succumbed to the fever. And perhaps it was because of his possessing the constitution of a horse that a farrier sue-  ceeded in curing him after a regular physician had given him up. Similia si nilibus curantur. Any way, what with Mercy's nursing, and the glauber and aloes which the farrier prescribed for him, TLiffith got sufficiently well to decline wearing the shroud which a kind old lady wWs embroidering for him, and call for a shirt. The next thing he called for was a parson, and he and Mercy were made one, much to the delight of the parents, who thought that such a son-in- law behind the bar would bring custom to the "Packhorse." Had they known his habits, they would have trembled on trusting him with the keys. For than Liffith there were few squarer drinkers in the county. The farrier, who had been engaged to Mercy, came in just as the ceremony was over. FoX a moment he staredwoefully at the picture, and then said very dryly: "I am too late for the wedding and too early for the funeral, methinks." "That you be, Paul," said Mrs. intner cheer- fully, " she is meet for your master." "If he be taken sick again, the devil may dose him," growled- Paul, and leaving the room in dis-   32      L IFFlITH LA NK. gust he withdrew his custom from the "Pack- horse" forever. On being asked the reason, he replied that he did not like the new Bar-Keeper. -*     O   .  - CTHAPTER VI. IF.'l'lItl might have shown his gratitude o to Mercy in a better way than marrying Gus  her, when he knew very well that he had a wife And child in the next county. It was scarcely the right thing to do; for there is a popular prejudice against a man having two wives, and one should always endeavor to con- form to the customs of society. But I am writing of a period with-which Fielding dealt, and can not forget my double character of moralist and artist, "LTiffith Lank " is no worse than "Tom Jones" or "Ferdinand   Count Fathom."  So, while all these fellows are batting at me, why do they not do a little Fielding "This tale hath float ed the "Argosy,' and sustained the "Atlantic." The reader will remark that I have floated the floater. In deference to the absurd prejudices of -society I have already omitted a great deal that would have added to the interest of the. story and its success among the masses-exemnpli gratia, the Mrs. Potiphar business between Ryder and iffith. All this I intend to publish in a sequel, if   "FFITH LANK.        33 the matter can be satisfactorily arranged with my publishers. And it can be, without donbt. For it is a mistake to suppose that I consult them or any one else regarding the morality of what I write. The only thing I. discuss with them is, bulk and price-principally bulk. For I am an artist as well as a moralist, and-ars longa, etc, -my art chiefly displays itself in the length of my stories. Verbum sap. To return to my story. Matters did not go dn very thrivingly at the "Packhorse" after the marriage. Theprudent parents, who had thought that Liffith was a highwayman, and would bring purses home occasionally, found to their great dis- appointment that he was a gentleman, and exceed- ingly awkward behind the bar. Moreover, he drank like a fish; nay, he drank not like a fish, for a fish drinks but water, and little of that drank Liffith. It was ale and sack and sherry possets, until every thing was empty. He drank them out of house and home, and creditors threat- ened to sell out the "Packhorse." Reproached by Mr. Vintner, Lifith requested the old man to cease his taunts, and proposed to  buy him out.  To this a ready agreement was made, for the "Packhorse" was old, and the sign needed new painting, and the custom was poor. The best customer about the house was Liffith, but he did not even charge himself withl what he drank.   34 -  -   L FPPITH LANK.. The question of price was soon settled; that of bulk had already been disposed of, for it was in bulk that the inn was bought, and the only thing that remained was payment. It became a quest tion of cash VERY HHA RD CAS4. At mention of this, Tiffith's face fell. For he had spent all the money he took from the priest at leaving, and what he had raised from selling and pawning his otherwife's jewels. Suddenly a bril- liant idea occurred to him. He would go back to that other wife and borrow of her enough money to set himself and this one up in business. So it is the words of the old song came true, "Nous revenons toujours  A nob premiers amours." And he saddled his great black horse and set roff to see the other Mrs. Lank. His father-in-law, who thought he was going out to the high road to follow his old tradesof " stand and deliver," bade- him God-speed, but the dove-eyed angel sighed. For he might come to grief, thought she, and it: would not be pleasant to be widow of a man who was hanged,' Tiffith delayed two days upon the road, for he'. began to feel he was riding on an awkward errand Having turned over in his mind the way he should conduct the disagreeable but necessary business, he determined to conduct it upon business prin-   "FITH L ANK.        35 ciples only, and if collaterals and an indorser were required, to get his father-in-law to back his paper.  Singularly enough, he found his wife exactly where he had left her. She was looking carefully over the ground, in accordance with her usual custom, to find the purse that had been dropped in the scuffle with the priest. Aside from being dressed in a magnificent Irish poplin, she was not much changed from what Liffith remembered her. Ryder had not pulled all her golden hair out, and she was still a passable-looking woman. She threw herself on Tliffith's neck, panted on his shoulder, and asked him what was the news. "You are but a woman," said' he-as though that were dews to her-and put her' roughly  away. "I came not to make love, but to make a loan." Mrs. Lank was a proud woman.  "An that be the case," said she, " we will go into the house and talk it over." Seated in the house: "My jewels, that you did' me the honor to take, would, not last you long, I feared," said she, " so I expected some- thing of this visit." "A man cannot live on hearing of sermons and smelling two rose-buds," replied TLiffith. N. B.-That was spoke sarcasticul, as Sylva- nus the Sugary says.   36   -   L iP'LIFFITH LA NK. The upshot of it all was that Mrs. Lank ad- vanced him five dollars on his personal recog- nizance. It being nightfall before the necessary negotiations were concluded, TLiffith generously consented to stay to dinner and, as a matter of course, got drunk. A separate apartment had been aired and placed at his disposal, but by an effort of "organic memory" he managed to mistake the roomnor did he discover the mistake until it was too late to remedy it. Such little mistakes will occur in the best- regulated families - especially when one man maintains two, living in separate counties. Early the next morning he mounted his horse and rode away to the dove-eyed angel, carrying five dollars in his pocket. "There," said he, flinging the postal currency down on the table, I come not to thee empty- handed."- 'Nor I to thee. While thou wast saying, 'Stand and deliver,' see what I did," said Mer- cy, with a heavenly smil^, pointing to a cradle which TLiffith 'had not before observed. It con- tained a boy three years old. On the whole, he thought he'd go back to Kate; and Mercy, on hearing the whole story, coincided with him in the opi'on that it was the best thing he could do under the circumstances. Tiffith proposed Utah, if his other wife could be brought to consent; but the dove-eyed was not willing to dovetail into any such an arrangement.   "FFITH   LANK.         37 So back rode he to Cucumberland.     But here found he himself in a sad pickle.     For Mrs. M"It T-B "OBDLBE SONG." A clear case of "Who's been here?" etc Lank had heard of his goings on.      Company was in the house, and all sat at dinner when iffith entered the room.     ,  .   38 -    LIFFITH LANEA.  - Is there place. for one more8l said he in- quiringly. "No," replied Mrs. Lank decisively, as she helped Father Francis to fish. Such a meeting of man and wife never I nor any one else saw. At this moment one idea suddenly and simul- taneously occurred to all the well-bred guests; ( and that idea was, that they were, perhaps, de trop. Griffith saw them leave with a sinking heart, for well knew he what was coming. Mrs. Lank called him, a Skulking Skeesicks, and threatened to collar him and drag him be- fore a jury of his countrymen. "The consta- bles shall come for you in the morning," said she, and with that bade Ryder show himn to-a room in the attic. Little liking the accomnnodations, and still less the idea of constables in the morning, TLiffith waited until Ryder had left the room, and then,  opening the window, let himself down to the ground by the tin water-pipe that ran along the eaves. The next morning Tiffith was non est nventus. And the morning afterothe next, Mrs. Lank was arrested on suspicion of having murdered him. Before hanging her, however, it was necessary to find the body. Now a little distance from the house was a mere, filled with carp and eels and   S LIFFITH LANK.        39 pike and other fish, always fresh and fit for the table from the fact that they were fed principal- ly upon parsons and peddlers. IL was a mere suspicion that the body was here, but they de- termined to drag the mere. For some time they dragged nothing to the surface -but parsons and peddlers and tin pots and broken jugs, but at length they clawed hold of something else. "Draw slowly," said the contractor, "and if it is, be men, and hold fast." The men drew slowly, slowly, and presently there rose to the surface a Thing to strike terror and loathing to the stoutest soul. Thin to strie Terror to the Stoutest Sol. A ThIncr to strike Terror to the Stoutest Soul.   40      ;IPTH LABNK. 401      PPIT  L A NE  It was notan editor, nor an anonymous cor- respondent, nor a Prurient Prude. It was the pair of hobnailed shoes before alluded to in capital letters. They were identified by a ground- mole, found in one of them. With this evidence against her, Mrs, TLank's case was regarded as hopeless; but neverthe- less, it was deternined to make an effort in her defense. Prominent in this movement was George Neverll. He hoped two things: first, that Tliffith was indeed eaten up by the fish in the mere; secondly, that Kate would be ac- quitted. CHAPTER  Ville -i H I GS looked serious. Ryder had heard Mrs. Lank threaten her husband, and a splash had been heard in the mere that night. The theory that it was only a fish jumping was laughed to corn.  The idea that' Mercy might know something about the whereabouts of lTiffith suggested it- self to Mrs. Tank, and George Neverill was dis- patched to find that dove-eyed angel. But she knew no more about it all than the other Mrs. Lank.   "FFITH LANKB.        41 A notice appearing in one of the leading dailies of the  period, that a gentleman of refinement, education, and wealth, and good-looking withal, would like to correspond with a large number of young ladies, with a view to matrimony, George suggested that this must be Tjiffith. But Mercy said no. She did not think he-was mnajying nowadays so much as formerly. 'What shall we do?" cried Neverill in de- spair. "Consult the spirits," replied Mercy; and a circle was immediately formed, but with no sat- isfactory result. One spirit, on being consulted, rapped out, A-D-V-E-R-T-I-S-E, but being the ghost of a newspaper proprietor-whose widow continued the business-the advice was attributed to in- terested motives. Nevertheless, she and George laid their heads together, and concocted the following, which ap- peared among the "Personals?" in all the city and country papers soon after: "If Iffith Lank, who is suspected of having. been murdered, will send his address to either of his wives,or apply to the ,Sheriff of this county, he will hear of something to his advan- tage.                eod2p&wtf." The day before the trial Neverill telegraphed Mercy to know if any answer had co*e to the advertisement.    -    4;2-     LIPFITH LANS K. She replied, No." To this telegram there were two postscripts. First postscript, in a tremulous hand: "Consult the spirits." Second postscript, in a spiritual hand: "Nonsense!" said matter-of-fact Mr. Chouse- man, " we have enow to do with pumping the witnesses, let alone draining the mere. We want no more parsons and peddlers." CHAPTE3R IX4 OURT was in session. "Katrine Lank," said the Judge, "look me in the face." The prisoner turned her eyes slowly upon him. He saw in an instant that she was, not looking at him, and was about to commit her for contempt, when an old friend of the family stepped up, and explained the peculiarity of the grand and beau- tiful orbs. Mr. Vldhitworth, the junior counsel for the Crown, then rose to open the case; but the pris-   "FPITH La N..       4  oner, with a pale- face, but most courteous de meanor, begged his leave to ask a previo us ques tion of the court. Mr. Whitworth bowed, and sat down. "My lord," said she, looking - the Judge dreamily in the face, "what think you of the doctrine of the TmMaculate ConceptionT" At this the crier Shouted, "O yez! O yez! O yez!" and the trial went on. But I will not weary the reader with a detail of the tedious process of an English court of law. Various witnessed gave their testimony, and Mrs. Lank subjected each to a severe cross-ex- amination upon the dogmas of the Church. At the conclusion of the case for the prosecu- tion, the prisoner stated that she should only call one witness for the defense. "Mercy Vintner!" cried she. And Mercy Vintner, who had been consulting the spirits in a side-room, stepped forward. "State to the court what you know about the case," said Mrs. -TLank. "Nothing, an please your lordship," said Mercy, with a courtesy, "but that TLiffith Lank an't dead yet." "But twenty witnesses declare that he is," re- marked the Judge. "The balance of evidence is against you." And despite an appealing look from the dove-eyed angel, hewas about to put,on his black cap and pass sentence, for it was alieady   :         -       -  "     I  L  AlTTLI F T LAN. past his dinner hour. But Mercy quietly tooks a note from her reticule and handed it to him. The note was from TLiffith, and was addressed to the Judge. It briefly stated that he was alive; 'but that he did not like to present himself for a family reason-or rather for a two-family reason. He had read about jailsmin a work by a popular author, entitled "Never Too Late to End," and did not wish to make close acquaintance with the punishment-jacket, and cranks, cold douches, and visiting justices. He concluded, by asking the Judge to dine with him when he happened to drop down his way; paid a score of compliments to both his wives, and threatened to whip any body -who hanged either of them. The court was at once dismissed, and Mrs. Lank apologized to a jury of her countrymen for the trouble she had given them. She entered no legal proceedings against her husband, fearful that even if found ^guilty, the jury would recom- mend him to Mercy.      ^     "   "FF1ITH LANE.         4. CHAPTER X. IT HANGE came over Mrs. TLank from tha HOA   day forward.  -She had learned that the ^-  law will not allow even a woman to threaten to collar any body with impunity. In the mean time, liffith Lank, Esq, who hak succeeded to an imnmense and independent for tune in; his own right, reappeared in public. I was said that he had compromised matters witI the Vintners, but whether -he had or not, no sui at law was brought against him, and he set abou building a fine house, with large grounds and con servatories, but no meres and fish-ponds aboutth premises. Mrs. Lank heard of the new place, and ridink past there one day, thought how much- finer i was than Hernshaw Castle. One day she received a note in a well-knot hand of write.  She had been expecting some thing of the kind, and it causedher no surprise It contained but these words: "ADAM : I do not ask you to forgive me. But I have buil a fine new house of Milwaukee brick, furnished with all the mod ern improvements-gas, water, bells, and speaking-tubes, and onl five minutes' walk from the depot. I have also abandoned all ide   4&       LI}'ITH LANK. of going into thi hotel business in another county. Your apart- mets are ready for you. With renewed assurances of my most distinguished considers tionl I remain, your husband,    LlFm'll LANK." The messenger awaited a reply. "I will consult my child, said Mrs. Jank. And  calling to  her little girl, cetat eteen months, who was playing    in the parlor, she asked would it have some sugar-plums a "Es," lisped little Rose. "As you please," said Mrs. TLank, and sat down and wrote as follows:  ' SIR : I have consulted my child, and we both agree to submit to your judgment. Please send a carriage. Yours respectfully,   KATRINE LANB. "P. S. I have no objection to going a short distance into the country. The thing was done.  In the meanwhile, Providence having kindly killed off the offspring of her affair with Tiffith- the little fellow clearly had no right to stand in the way of his mother's making a good match- George Neverill had married the dove-eyed angel. The two families exchanged cards, but did not visit -each other. So my task is ended. I have aimed to show that bigamy is against the law, and hope I have succeeded. In the present case it happens, unfortunately,   ,* /   "IffITii bAN ff. A      1+ that the only one who felt the terrors of the law, and came near suffering its penalties, was the in- jured wife.- And the only persons who were- called upon to suffer at all were the three really innocent ones, George Neverill, the dove-eyed angel, and the little boy-the first having been jilted, the second most cruelly deceived and in- jured, and the last carried off by the scarlet fever to make room for a father-in-law. As for Tjiffith, he had the satisfaction of living with the two prettiest women in England, and escaping with- out even a suit for damages. Under the circum- IQ Z i i  Showing what a man can achieve by honest industry. stances, an action for breach of promise could scarcely have been made to lie. On the whole,   48   .  .LLIFITH, LA N T. our hero can not be held up as an example to young men. But these are the facts, and I sim- ply tell them. Que voulez vous? Is not virtue its own reward   .   THE ATLANTIC FOR 1867. OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES will contribute a romance of New-England life, a story of the present, entitled "The Guardian Angel," to extend throughout the year. JAMES PARTON will furnish a series of Biographical Papers and of Industrial Articles upon prominent and peculiar American manufactures. JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL will write during the year regularly. His conributions will. consist both oflprose and poetry. BAYARD TAYOR, who is about to visit Europe, will send from there a seriesotf sketches of "The DBy Ways of Europe." Mr. Taylor will also furnish during the year other sketches in prose upon miscellaneous topics. THOMAS WENTWORTH HGGINSON will supply several of those charming sketches of out-door life and natural scenery, which have made him so acceptable a contributor in years past.  EDWARD EVERETT HALE, author of "The Man without a Country," "My Double, and How He Undid Me," will contribute several stories and sketches in his peculiar vein. F. SHELDON and CHARLES DAWSON SHANLY, two/of our most brilliant writers, will furnish regularly for the Magazine articles of a popular character. The usual staf of writers will contribute regularly to the Magazine, comprising many of the best names of American literatutre. Among these may be mentioned: H. W. Longfellow,    C. C. Hazewell,   Harriet B. Stowe. R. W. Emerson,     J. G. Whittier,   Gail Hamilton, Louis Agassiz,     Mrs. L. M. Child,  E. P. Wbipple, Wmi. Cullen Bryant,   E. C. Stedman,    Mrs. A. M. Diaz, J. T. Trowhridge,    Alice Carey,     C. J. Sprague, Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney, W. D Howells,    T. B. Aldrich, John Neal,       Harriet E. Prescott, - Henry James, Jr. TERMS OF TE ATLANTIC. - ingle Subseriptios, Four Dollars per Year.     , Club Rates.-Two Copies for Seven Dollars; Five Copies for Sixteen Dollars; Ten Copiet, for Thirty Dollars, and each additional copy Three Dollars. For every Club of Twenty Subscribers an extra copy will be furnished gratis; or Twenty-one Copies for Sixty Dollars. S#pecinen Noumbers sent to any address for 85 cents.          - Postage.-The postage on the ATLANTIC is 24 cents per year, and must in all cases be paid at the office where it is received. TICKNOR & FIELDS, Publishers,    
         
       
   
