
    ----CITATION----
        Torrey, Mary Ide, (1817-1869). City and Country Life, or, Moderate Better Than Rapid Gains .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8083
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            City and country life, or, Moderate better than rapid gains 
            
                 CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE: OR MODERATE   BETTER   THAN  RAPID  GAINS. BY MRS. MARY IDE TORREEY. It is no matter of regret or sorrow to us," [of Massachusetts] " that few are ye rich; but it is our pride and glory that few are very poor."-Daniel Webster. FOURTH THOUSAND. BOSTON: TAPPAN & WHTTEMORE; JOHN P. JEWETT & CO. MLWAUKIE: A. WHTTEMORE & CO. CHLICOTHE: WHTT'EMORE & SAXTON. 1853.   Entered according to Act of Congres, in the year 1853, by MARY IDE TORREY, in the Clerk's office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts ANDOVER: J.' D. LAaG, Stereotyper and Printer.                : tol   1 i:CHAPTER L '        ':     '    '     ;! ' The Norths5 . CHAPNTER M. '   The Surprise........... .....a :..........3 :           CHAPTER IV. A    Dilemma...............         41           CHAPTER V.  A Peep Behind the Curta  .........3 CHAPTER VI. Clouds in Eldorado            78 tI          CHAPTER ViL The Journey .......           98 CHAPTER VI Studnt ......t udent              121 Clods ThnEldorado ............................ .............8.. :I         . .  .   .  '.. CHAPTER EI. The Two Weddings ................  ......1i &'*.*                    *  ' . 'i'            iv            CONTENTS. CHAPTER X. Peep at Mrs. Chester .....   ................................. 143 CHAPTER XI. The Minister and the Bachelor...........           156 CHAPTER XIL Another Visit to Mrs. Chester..    ........        166 CHAPTER XMTI. The Parsonage.......................... ........... ....... 189 CHAPTER XIV. A Domestic Scene -Mr. and Mrs. Bartlett................... 203 D CHAPTER XV. Unexpected Changes .....................           215 CHAPTER XVI.  Scene at Mr. Van Vectons ...............           239 CHAPTER X1VU. An Old Acquaintance........................         245 CHAPTER X VIL. Mr. and Mrs. Chamberlain .............................. , 256 CHAPTER XIX. A Visit to the Lowly................. ............      263 CHAPTER XX. The Reunion...................     .................   283 CHAPTER XXI. Sepulchre in the Garden ................           299 CHAPTER    X Xll. I  Mi and Mrs. Bartlett - Conclusion....   ... .. a............ . 317   CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. CHAPTER I. THE NORTHS. Honor and shame from no condition rise; Act well your part,-there all the honor lies. - Pope. 'O! HOW beautiful!" exclaimed Delia- Edwards as, with a half-sigh, and a lingering step, she pointed h sister to a mansion that opened to them through a vita of stately elms. They were pasing the noble cpuntry-seat of Es1. Nth, which? with all its surroundings of green-house a , noble trees, velvet lawn, and gravelled walks, bordered by every variety of shrub and flower, seemed, upon the gentle eminerce that gave full view'of all, the very crown pf the beautiful village of D. , At that moment, a carriage, drawn by two ceed. horses, came out of the gate, and passed them atfull speed The party, taking their mrinmg driv  n  te d f Miss North, her sister Ephemia, their brother Juli, and a guest who was ,visiting them, by the name of Bafet Mr. .3art- lett was a bachelor on the--sunny side of forty, who did :not marry when he was young, beaqe he wjps nt hen. ale to support a wife to his mind; and now, remained :single, e-   6     -    CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. cause he could not find one who exactly realized the ideal he had formed. He was a native of New England, accustomed from early childhood to untiring industry, and from very small beginnings had acquired an independence. The same habits of mind which had been instilled in early childhood, and which had made him so successful in business, he still re- tained, and they led him to take the old-fashioned and eccentric views of king Solomon, of woman's sphere, accomplishments, and duties. No wonder he remained single! Another thing troubled him, and that not a little. He was known to be rich, and of course desirable, so far as wealth was i concerned. How could he ascertain a lady's true character? She might have mercenary reasons for appearing well in his eyes; and how was he to discern whether it was for himself, or his wealth, she had the most regard? He knew that for some reason, he was quite a favorite with the ladies.- When he stood before his ample mirror, his high forehead, above which clustered dark locks, just glossed by the slight sprink- i ling of silver, his large black eyes, clear, healthful complexion, and fine, full figure, always tastefully arrayed, suggested that this regard was for himself. But he had some misgivings whether it was truth, that at"such times was looking over his shoulders. Miss North was a beauty, and she was as conscious of her attractions as Mr. Bartlett could be of his. She had been fashionably educated, and of course had not graduated at Solo- - pion's school. Euphemia, not having finished her education, had not yet   I entered the whirl of fashionable society, and there was in her a native stock of good sense, which all its influences could hardly exhaust or spoil. The character of the brother will appear-in the following conversation.                              ,F'   THE NORTHS.           7 "How dignified and stately Delia and Helen Edwards ap- pear," said Phemy, turning to her sister. , Delia, especially," said Julius; " she looks a goddess, and she moves a queen." "Are they associates of yours?" said Mr. Bartlett, turning to Miss North. "4 Of mine?" said she with a toss of the head, " O no. They are a couple of girls that sew straw for a living." "Is that employment pretty generally followed in this place?" inquired Mr. Bartlett. "Why, yes, I believe it is, to a considerable extent, by a certain class." "I was informed by one of the largest manufacturers, that many of the most respectable people in town, work in straw more or less - people of character, but not with a surplus of money," said Julius, "How can you say the most respectable, Julius," said Miss North. "I did not say the richest, sis; however, you associate with many who work in straw, but who would not like to have it known." "Why should they conceal it," said Mr. Bartlett. "If they need money, it is more honorable to earn it, than to de- pend upon one's friends; and if they are able to sustain a high position, working does not injure them." "But you know, Mr. Bartlett," said Julius, "that ever since Eve sewed fig leaves, it has not been fashionable, and therefore not reputable, for women to make anything useful." "It oughlt to be considered, as indeed it is, truly honorable for a woman to be useful, not only with her needle, but in every department of household duties. ' She maketh fine linen and selleth it, and delivereth girdles unto the merchant- she looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth /   $8     -CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. not the bread of idleness,' is a part of the portrait of the right kind of a woman, drawn by a king," said Mr. Bart, lett. " It does amuse me," said Euphemia, , to hear gentlemen talk, and then see them act. They grow eloquent about good housewives, till you would almost believe them in earnest, if you did not, the next moment, see t0hetn choose as a com- panion for life, some intellectual Miss, who knows nothing about domestic duties,' "I should think the two qualifications might be united," said Mr. B. 'You'll find them as nearly so in those girls we just passed, and who gave rise to the conversation," said Julius, , as in anytpersons I know." "I believe I must quarrel with you, Phemy," said Mr. Bartlett. It You think gentlemen are not sincere in the wishes they express in regard to ladies being useful and accom- plished housewives?" " I don't think much about it; I only judge from what I see constantly. You gentlemen educate your wives to your liking, not by your talking, but by your practice. If you chose do- mestic girls for wives, there would be more good ones than there are now. If I really meant to get married to an agree- able, gentlemanly, and educated man, I would n't know any- thing about such ungenteel affairs. I never- would meddle with hard work, but keep my hand so delicate that every man would aspire to it. I would read and study, and be sure to be a little saucy; for they don't think any better of us for being too civil. They are " lords of creation," and like something to conquer, and I'd give them something, so that they would afterwards appreciate what was really excellent in me. If I could sew nicely, make good cake, darn stockings, and look after servants, they would think I was clever, and respect me,   THE NORTHS.          9 no doubt, but the only proposals they would make to me, would be to come and stay with their wives." , You should n't tell all your tactics beforehand," said Mr. Bartlett, smiling, " the gentlemen will understand you, and your artifice amount to nothing." "I'm not afraid of it, I'm too young now to think of matrimony for myself, these several years, and when my turn comes there 'll be plenty of silly men to play the same game over again, unless the world changes." "You are too hard on the gentlemen," said Mr. B--, " 1, certainly, am an exception; I never chose a wife who knew nothing about domestic concerns." "There's very good reason for that; you have never cho- sen at all, and you never will, because you are looking for too much; you are trying to be as fortunate in matrimonial af- fairs as you were in money-making, and get a great deal for a little,' said Euphemia, laughing. "I hope you do not intend to be any more saucy a few years hence, Phemy, than you are now," said Miss North. "This is nothing to what I intend to be then; I am only telling Mr. Bartlett some sober truths. He's been talking so wisely that we should have been carried away into - the kitchen, if we hadn't known it is that kind of theory which is continually talked about and never put in practice. - There is Delia Edwards, who would make a capital wife for Mr. Bart- lett,--would suit his ideas exactly,-but he wouldn't marry her, because she is not in the right position in society." 1"Perhaps you wrong me, Phemy; you do not know- that 1 would not. I certainly would take such a girl quicker than one in a higher position; who would afterward lower me and herself, by her total unfitness for her station. But I think there ought to be such young ladies as you represent Delia Edwards to be, among the wealthy and fashionable."   10       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "Yes, but they cannot get any time to become such. Be- fore they go into society they have so many studies to attend torso :much practisingt on the piano,-for you know, you gentlemen would want a wife who could sing and play well, - that if they learn to sew, it is as much as they can do. After they leave school, they must continue to practise music, or they'll forget it; and the rest of their time is taken up in making and receiving calls, and attending to such things as  grow out of this endless and delightful round of company and excitement." "That is just as it ought not to be," said Mr. Bartlett. "But such young ladies are the ones the gentlemen choose, -they want companions, they think they can hire a servant. If I was determined to get married, at any rate, I would n't risk; my chance any other way." "But I thought I saw you mixing bread, or something of the kind, as I passed the kitchen window this morning." "6 Well,. that was because I hadn't made up my mind, cer. tainly, whether I should ever try: to get married. I like old maids pretty well, that is, some of them, - those that remain single, because they are truly excellent, and can't find any- body to appreciate them, and so are willing to bear the re- proach of 'old maid' rather than marry a person unworthy of them. Such a person as Aunt Dorothy, for instance," "Who is Aunt Dorothy?" 'Aunt Dorothy Edwards, - everybody calls her Aunt. She is a woman who sews for mother; and everybody loves her, she is- so good. I have heard she was once engaged to be married, but the man proved worthless, ,so she dismissed him, and has remained single. ever since. She is one who kinows how to do everything." "(What, knows how to do everything- and once engaged to   y:t'       ' THE NORTHS.          " be married? I thought such girls were not agreeable to the gentlemen," said Mr. Bartlett. "But he was n't a: gentleman, and:besides, exceptions only prove the rule; and then, that was a great many years ago. Aunt Dorothy is almost old enough to be my grandmother." "Here is the place where Delia and Aunt Dorothy live," said Julius, as they passed Mr. Edwards's neat and pretty house. "It always reminds me of the picture of Smiling Compe- tence, which I used to see in one of my picture-books when I was a child," said' Phemy. "' I should think they might live ccontentedly between the little and the great, " said Mr. Bartlett, looking out. How contentedly they lived, the reader shall now see.   CHAPTER    II, THE EDWARD S FArML Y. Along the cool, sequestered vale of life, They kept the noiseless tenor of their way..- Gray's Elegy. THE stern discipline of early poverty had given to Mrs. Edwards's naturally energetic spirit, good health, enterprising habits, and facility of execution, which rendered her, in com- mon parlance, a " smart woman." She had possessed few opportunities for education, but their rarity made them the more highly prized. Her memory was retentive, and because she had little time to read, she bad the more time for reflection, till the few ideas she ac- quired from books became, by thought, 'her own. She was, in all respects, a practical woman. What she planned, she lost no time in executing; thus she was enabled to accomplish those things in her own education, and earn by her industry, that which was almost incredible. As is fre- quently the case, for wise reasons no doubt, her husband, though a man of equally good sense and piety, was not so efficient as Mrs. Edwards. It was hard for her proud spirit to see others enjoy what she'could not possess; or, in other words, to see any one above her. Had her husband possessed equal energy, she probably would have attained the de- sire of her heart,--a name among the rich. At home, Mrs. Edwards found anl appropriate sphere for the exercise of her -skill and management. Her house was kept in the most perfect order; a simple elegance and taste were always visible. Her table was always attractive even to the sons and daughters of luxury; not because of the great variety   X: ;i        THE EDWARDS FAMLY.        13 of provision, but on account of the neatness and taste dis- played in its arrangement, and the excellence of every article that was placed upon it. Her children, of whom she had several, exhibited, in their characteristics of energy and industry, the results of the ma- ternal training. The dignity and propriety of their deport- ment led them, dependent though they were upon their daily toil, to be well received by many families far above them in wealth and 'outward circumstances, illustrating, on a small scale, the truth of the proverb, "Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men."  Mrs. Edwards felt her own want-of education. She saw it was a passport to good society, for those who did n6t possess wealth, and she awakened in her children an ambition to obtain it. The common school, the pride and boast of New England, aided her in the accomplishment of her wishes. The want of time to enjoy this privilege to its full extent, which is felt by the poor, was obviated in this case, because their employment was of such a nature, that the process of money-making was not interrupted, while that of education was in progress; the expert braider of straw being able to accomplish as much while reading or studying, as when doing nothing else. Many years ago, children were allowed to carry their work to school, the teachers thinking, and perhaps with truth, that it was a help in the matter of discipline. The Ed- wards children availed themselves of this privilege, and while striving always to be at the head of their classes, and out-do those who were more the favorites of fortune, still performed their daily "task." Thus urged by necessity, and fired by ambition, they had neither time nor inclination for anything but that intense application which made them the favorites of every teacher, and the observed of all visitors in the school.   "      CITY AND -COUNTRY LIFE. They were always the first selected, when the emulation of the pupils was roused by " choosing sides." Delia possessed her mother's aspiring spirit, and looked upon the wealth of others with the same longing eyes. "How gay and happy they seem," said Delia, with a deep sigh, as Esq. North's carriage whirled rapidly past them, on the morning they were introduced to our readers.  "It would take a lifetime of Mr. Jones's eloquent preaching to make me believe I should not be happier if I were rich, and l'( v then he 'd spend his strength for nought. Don't my every- day experience prove it?" "I did n't know that you had ever been rich," said Helen, playfully. "Well, but I have been, and am now poor, - have nothing but what I work for, and there are a great many things which I want that I can't get, work as hard as I may." "Perhaps Esq. North's daughters would like a great many things they cannot afford." "They have enough to satisfy all reasonable wishes. Every day in summer they can ride round in that ele- gant carriage, are surrounded with the gay and fashionable, can have all their time to read, dress, and attend concerts; without having to stop and count the cost, as we 1o. It does seem hard, that there should be such a difference between persons, who perhaps are equally deserving." "Uncle John told me the other day," replied Helen, "that wealth-did not make so much real difference in happiness as we are apt to suppose'; and then he dwelt so eloquently upon the dangers and trials connected with the possession of wealth, that I began to feel quite contented as I was." "O, that's all theory! everybody declaims against riches, our minister among the rest; and yet they would all be glad of them. For my part, I'm willing to risk the dangers and trials, provided I can only be as rich as I want to be."   THE EDWAlRDS 'AVlu, X.       x, "It makes me tremble to hear you say so, lest you should be taken at your word."  "I'd say it twice, if I thought I should." , I should be afraid to, for you may depend, when the Bi- ble says so much against wealth, that there's trouble lurking about it somewhere." , Yes, but there need not be. If we are wicked, we shall suffer disappointment and trial, whether we are poor or nch. But it stands to reason that a rich man is happier than a poor man. You quote the Bible as .witness against me, but I hap- pen to recollect that this same witness has pronounced riches a blessing, and promised them as rewards to those who live in obedience to all its commands. Now I mean that I should like this 'blessing of the Lord,' which He has said maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow therewith,' and I'll take the risk that you looked at with a shudder, joyfully:' "I cannot," replied Helen, , dispute what you have just said, yet I learn from the same authority that those who will be rich, fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition ' and Christ has said, ' It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. So Wise a man as Solomon could not bear them safely, and left on record that all was vanity and vexation of spirit; and his riches, too, were conferred on him as a mark of favor; and remember, that in his wisdom and by inspiration, he wrote the prayer of Agur: ' Remove far from me .... poverty and riches; feed me with food conve- nient for me; lest I be full and deny thee, and say, Who is the Lord? or lest I be poor and steal, and take the name of my God in vain. It is a paradox I do n't understand." It's a problem which I would willingly work out, if I could have the trial," persisted-Delia.   'v       vAA* 1 vo I UiVUNl1Y LIFE. "I should like to hear what Aunt Dorothy would say about this, for she is as good as a minister to explain all the hard passages," said Helen. They had now reached their home, a small white house, neat and tasteful, with its green blinds. Upon the slender pillars, which supported the piazza, the woodbine and jasmine were trained. The yard in front was beautifully laid out, and flowers of every hue were blooming in their weedless beds. Rude and mercenary hands had not planted and trained them, but at early dawn and dewy eve, before they had be- gun, or after they had ended the earnest toil, which sur- rounded them with so many comforts and even elegancies and in great part had reared the house itself, these young girls were busy here. Every flower was planted and trained by their hands; their taste and skill were manifested in the choice and arrangement.- We  will enter, with them, the pleasant sitting-room, not kept tidy for the reception of vis- itors merely, while their work was performed elsewhere; but the scene of their continued toil, while they there enjoyed social intercourse with the friends who called. Mrs. Edwards was sitting in her accustomed seat in the corner, and Aunt Dorothy, of whom we have heard before, occupied the other, nearly opposite her. Several boquets of flowers filled the room with their fragrance. One of peculiar beauty, stood under the glass, upon the table between the windows. Each'side of this table, Delia and Helen had their A regular seats, through summer and winter, with the imple- ments of their work in a little basket by their side.  "You are rather late," said Mrs. Edwards; a what has hap- pened to detain you?" "O, nothing in particular," said Delia, who was always the first to speak, "only Helen has been disputing with me, and trying to prove we should not be any happier if we were rich   THE EDWARDS FAMLY.        17 I suppose she is sincere, but I wish some one would offer her a hundred thousand dollars, and see if she would refuse them. She knows how you would decide it, and so she has agreed to leave it to Aunt Dorothllly" "I could n't tell, any- better than you, whether she would refuse it," said Aunt Dorothy. "I presume I should not, Aunt; I would like to be rich, as well as any one, but there is a seeming paradox we don't understand, and we would like your opinion." She then related the conversation which had passed be- tween them, and waited for her Aunt's sage reply. "Well, girls," said the good old lady, adjusting her spec- tacles, her benign face assuming a pleasant smile, ( I am not surprised that you were late. You have taken upon your- selves to decide one of the knottiest points. Helen represents theory, and Delia practice. Every one can see the danger which might result to others from a possession of wealth, but every one thinks he should be able to escape them himself. I suppose, to make a long story short, you might be a great deal happier in some respects, and a great deal more misera- ble in others." "More miserable, Aunt! no, not if we have the ' blessing of the Lord, which maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow therewith.' That's the kind I seek ; I always look out for the genuine article." "I doubt if that is the kind you are seeking, or whether you would take that kind, if it were offered you." "I certainly would, Aunt." "Well, let's see. What do you suppose that passage means?" "Why, plainly just what it says, that the blessing of the Lord will give a man riches without any trouble with them." e '  '        .   18       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. ' Do you suppose God means there to promise to work a miracle?" "No, and I do n't see any occasion for it." "He certainly must go out of his ordinary course, and act contrary to his general laws, if he fulfils that passage accord. ing to your interpretation, for that would be separating the sweet from the bitter, which he does not do in this world. As my old minister used to say, every situation in life has its troubles and its pleasures, which necessarily belong to it, and cannot be separated from it. For instance, if you have a great deal of property, you can have many pleasures that the poorer cannot; but then this property inevitably brings with it care and anxiety just in proportion to its amount." "I 'll take the care, only give me the dollars," said Delia, stitching away as though she meant to have all she could. "I should rather have the care, than to be without the money." "Old 'Mr. Solomon Strong told me last week," said Aunt Dorothy, " that the care of his property had cost him more vexation than all his labor in acquiring it, twice told." "Go right to Mr. Strong, and tell him," said Delia, " that I'll take his care, if he will let me have his money, and he may enjoy himself by earning his living over again. I'll employ him, and pay him cash." "I'm afraid it would be of no use." ' I do n't suppose it would, and that shows he is not sincere," said Delia, with some triumph. "It shows he likes the pleasures and advantages that money gives, but is very unhappy and dissatisfied because he cannot get rid of the care and perplexity that necessarily goes with it," said Aunt Dorothy, "-and proves just what I was saying. Then there are other troubles. As soon as a man is rich, everybody wants his money. He can't enjoy it without being   THE EDWARDS FAMLY.        19 harassed with calls for charity, which it would take more than he possesses to supply." , He is not obliged to give to all! It would be a pleasure to me, to give to some people, and those I chose to refuse, I could very easily answer with a little word of two letters." "Yes, but that might be attended with some troubles that you cannot realize now. Then, a rich man is liable to the envy of the poor, which sometimes leads to serious inconvenience, and he is obliged to keep on the continual look-out, lest he be imposed upon by designing sharpers, or lest he ruin himself by self-indulgence. These troubles will attend riches,-are as inseparable from them as the inside and the outside are from the bag that holds them." "That seems very sensible, Aunt, and would be quite con- vincing, if it were not for one slight objection." "What is that?" "It directly contradicts my favorite text: 'The blessing of the Lord it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow therewith' How do you get over that difficulty?" "Simply by a different interpretation of the passage. I have my doubts whether a man ever is rich, till he has this 'blessing of the Lord,"'" said Aunt Dorothy. '"He may have property enough to make him so, but he will not feel rich- enough. The more a man has, the more he may want. It is this constant hankering after something else,--this rest- less, dissatisfied spirit, that makes men miserable. One of the first things, then, to make a man happy, will be to give him a contented, obedient, self-denying, benevolent spirit, which will regulate these desires. Then he will be prepared to enjoy what property he has, whether it is much or little, --he will be enabled to get along with the dangers and difficulties that attend the possession of great wealth, so that, in the end. he   20       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. will not be ruined by it. But I suppose the passage is fulfilled more generally, when God so controls circumstances, that a man really enjoys as much, with very little property, as if he were rich, without the evils which necessarily attend the actual possession of wealth. I heard a poor, venerable returned mis- sionary s;ay that he had experienced the truth of Christ's words: 'There is no man who hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or lands for my sake and the Gos- pel, but he shall receive a hundred-fold more in this time, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands,' etc. ' For,' said he, ' since my return from a hea- then land, where I have spent my health and strength, I have found the best houses in the country open to receive me, with- - out charge. I have been astonished and humbled to see what noble and honorable men God hath raised up to minister to me. They have been the servants, to hold and improve them, while I enjoyed all the comforts, without any of the care and perplexity. I have manifold more homes than I could take care of, the use of which are all tendered to me freely. While other people own them, what more can they enjoy of them than I do? My children, also, are benefited, as well as my- self. These people educate them, and they are admitted to society which, under other circumstances, they could never have entered.' Now I think his case is an illustration of this passage to which you have taken such a fancy; but I sup- pose you would rather not be rich in exactly that way." "No, not I. It looks to me too much like dependence, to suit my spirit." "So I thought; but you see he worked as hard to earn his privileges, as you ever did to earn anything; and you see, too, from the passage he quoted, that he only received the hire which was promised him."   ;f          THE EDWARDS FAMLY.   -21 "Well, now tell me what is the kind that you think I do want, and over which you and Helen hold such a cloud of horrors." "I suppose you would like to be what the world calls inde- pendent, - able to live without work." "That's the kind, exactly, Aunt. I should never wish to be idle; but this being obliged to rise early in the morning, whether you feel able or not; to wash, and iron, and bake, and then sit down to this straw, the livelong day, does not suit my ideas at all." ( But can't you see if the necessity to labor was taken away, and you had the opportunity of self-indulgence, you would be in a dangerous situation? You know the child's hymn says: "For Satan finds some mischief still For idle hands to do." "Yes, but we ought to Pe Christians at any rate.; and I should think piety with riches would be better than piety with poverty." "With competence, perhaps you will say, when you are older." "What do you mean by competence?" "It depends upon the different stations in which a person lives, what reply ought to be givenm In your situation, you possess competence." "We, Aunt!" "Yes, you and Helen possess a capital of more than 6,000 dollars." "6 Aunt, you are wild!" said both girls at once. "Not at all. You both together earn, annually, more than the interest of that sum. Your health, faculty, and opportu- nities to work, are your capital; and if you should be sick,     22       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. you would be in the same situation with a person who liad possessed that sum, but lost it by some misfortune. The only difference is in your favor; for while your habits are regular, and you accustom yourselves to useful labor, you are less likely to be sick than if you were under no necessity for exertion." "I think you have over-shot your mark, there; for if they had their health, they might work as we do, while we should be sick and not able to'do anything." "Yes, but what would their work amount to; unless they had the training and'practico that you have had? They would be as long in getting used to work, probably, as you would be in getting well, and perhaps longer. I do n't think either you or Helen would have been as smart and energetic as you are now, if you had thought you had each $3,000 to fall back upon." "Thank you, Aunt; but don't you think," said Delia with a playful smile, "' that as we are so smart and energetic, we ought to be rich now?"It would n't hurt us much, you know." "If God thinks so, he will give it to you," said her Aunt. "There, Aunt, there is the carriage again, that gave rise to this homily upon riches. See! they are looking out! "Perhaps they are envying you, as much as you envy them, --- who knows?" said Aunt Dorothy. - If they would like to exchange, tell them it's a bargains" said Delia. * ..     , .  !   T   CHAPTER III. THE SURPRISE, "How bright so e'er the prospect seems, All thoights of friendship are but dreams, If envy chance to creep in."-Cowper. ABOUT a mile from the village of D--  stands an old- fashioned farm-house, under the shade of three noble elms. A soft carpet of luxuriant grass covers the yard, and the coolness and verdure invite you to enter and tread the well- beaten path to the half-open door. One glance witlhin shews there is something of more than ordinary interest transpiring, or expected. The " best room" is open, its carpet thoroughly swept, its shining mahogany tables, and straight, old-fashioned chairs, neatly dusted. The beaufat in the comer displays, through its glass doors, rows of antique china and a silver tankard,--an heir-loom in the family, well filled with spoons of the same bright metal. The white fringed curtains, fes- tooned to one side, are swaying to and fro in the breeze that enters through the open windows.   The capacious fire-place is garnished, expressly for the occasion, with large branches of asparagus and a boquet of flowers.  The lon table in the "keeping-room," is loaded with excellent bread and butter, tarts, cakes, strawherries, etc.; and the sound of numerous happy voices in the yard, proclaim the presence of a rustic party. : Laura Temple, the farmer's daughter and belle of the evening, is the intimate friend of Delia Edwards. She is easily distinguished from the others, not only from her prex-   'f: 24          CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. I' imity to Delia, but from her tall, slender figure, profusion of glossy, black hair, and sparkling eyes of the same color, which contrast finely with her clear white skin. Her delicacy of complexion is not the paleness which is the result of dis- ease, but the beauty of health, with its own peculiar bloom upon-her cheek, and ruby stamp upon her lip. Healthful working at early dawn, a plain, nourishing diet, and the joy always attendant upon the cheerful performance of labor, had much to do with preserving, if not causing Laura's beauty. She has not as intellectual an expression as Delia, but what gentlemen like in a lady quite as well, a playful, happy coun- tenance ; gentleness is written in every lineament of her face, and a disposition to lean upon, rather than lead,--a counte- nance which would please rather than command. Delig taken aside from Laura, is a fine-looking girl: her hair and eyes are of the same color, but she has not Lauras delicacy of com- plexion, and her expression of energy, together with her commanding appearance, make her quite a contrast to the fair Laura. Many belles and beaux are present, but none of them will be introduced to the reader, save Frank Atherton. He is a native of D--, whose enterprise has led him from his quiet village to a neighboring city; but he has not forgotten his youthful associates, and joins them as often as possible in their rustic sports. When with Delia, her ready wit and good- natured independence make him forget the fairer Laura. When with TLaura, her beautiful laughing eye, sprightly and harmless gaiety, make him feel that good looks, good humor, and a tolerable share of sense, is all he wants in a wife, Laura had plenty of beaux,-it was a thing of course. She enjoyed the flattery of them all, and hardly stopped to think of confinig herself to the admiration of one. Delia had not as many. She did not wish for particular   THE SURPRISE.        25 attentions from those for whom she had not an equal regard, and such did not dare approach her as they would Laura. Delia liked Frank Atherton. He was not wealthy, neither was he beautiful. He did not profess a particular regard for her. It was evident he liked her; but he did not manifest any more regard for her than he did for Laura, though it was plain that he cared little for any others in the group. Frank was manly in his appearance, possessed sterling good sense, a command of language, decision of character, and at the same time a mildness of temper and pleasant voice and man- ner, which made the ladies forget to look into his face, to see- if he was handsome or ugly. When in conversation with Delia, he practically complimented her good sense by the choice of topics and the intelligence and thought which he displayed. If he was going to break lances with Delia, he always kept his armor bright. He exerted himself to appear sensible m her eyes. When with Laura, 'most anything would do. Her cheerful '-i face always made him feel pleasantly, and they talked mer- rily, but with so little weight that they seldom cared to remember the conversation. Let it not be here understood that Laura was silly. She was thoughtless, in the common acceptation of the term. As Delia stands under one of the noble elms, apparently listening with polite attention to the tedious conversation of a rustic admirer, her eye often wanders to the beautiful rose-bush, beside which Frank and Laura are standing, and her heart beats violently as she sees him place a lovely bud in Laura's hair. Delia felt that evening, as she laid her head upon her pil- A low, that it was evident Laura's beauty had won the heart of Frank, and it was long before she could compose herself to sleep. She, however, was a girl of too much good sense to pine for a heart in possession of another. She loved Laura,   6 CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.           . and felt that she had the regard of Frank to some extent; so, summoning all her fortitude, she at last believed she had given him up entirely and with perfect good will. It was late when she sunk to rest, and she awoke the next morning to se'es in which she had hardly ever dreamed of being an fto1 r.                          "Helen, hand me my spectacles," said Mr. Edwards, as he e into the house bringing a letter. After perusing it long enough, as Delia said,' to devour everything in it worth read- png, he folded it in his hands and sat musing very abstractedly. "( Where is your letter from?" said Mrs. Edwards, looking i:xioously at her husband. "Is anybody dead?" , So, .-I do n't know, - y-e-s," said he, after a pause of a few seconds, which seemed to the group as many minutes. "4'It most be an intelligent correspondent who writes so yod FRn't understand him after so long a time," said Delia. - The Lord have mercy on you, my child!" said Mr. Ed- wtAds? at the same time handing the letter to his wife.  : "P:berhps yo will know more about this, than I do," said he yith a sigh,  "D eWia., whose curiosity was at the boiling point as soon as : 4he noticed her father's strange look, now became alarmed at hs intimation that the letter had a fearful reference to herself.  tfer dreadful suspense was, however, partially relieved by the brightening of her mother's countenance, as she replied, ?1 u IYTes, I do now remember about it, but I never expected it tt mpyid h appen." At the same time she sat with the most ^: provoking equanimity, regarding Delia's countenance, as : uthpgh in 4eep thought,-forgetting the girl had any cu-  : 4' 4P iity,                          i? ' '. other," said Delia, going up to her and tapping her on the .hbul4er, "come back here, please, and tell me if I may X red this wonderful letter."    THE SURPRISE.         27 it Mrs. Edwards said nothing, but quietly relinquished her hold of the letter, and sat musing most happily, as before. "Now, Delia," said Helen, " have mercy upon Aunt Doro-- thy and me, and read that letter aloud:" "Wait, and let me see whether I 'm to be hanged or mar- ried," said Delia, "for you see by their looks that some kind of a halter awaits me." Delia read rapidly, and fell to musing as deeply as her pa, rents. Helen seized the enchanted epistle, and read aloud the following letter:- Calcutta, Matrck ,. A MR. JOHN EDWARDS- Sir, "This will inform you that by the decease of Jacob Storef merchant in this city, Miss Delia Edwards, daughter of Johh and Lucy Edwards, of   County --- State, U. S. A., is principal legatee, and by his will entitled to his property in this country, and those investments in New York and Bos- ton mentioned in his will, a copy of which I enclose. It is necessary that said Delia show proof' that she is the indi- vidual in question, and arrangements shall speedily be made to convey the said property into her hqnds, or those ofher agents." Then followed a copy of the Will, with some explanatory remarks, from which it appeared that Mr. Storer's property was, at the time of his death, estimated at half a million. Small legacies were bequeathed to several friends; but as Delia was residuary as well is principal legatee, it was evi- dent her wish was now to be. gratified, though the exact amount of her share was not definitely stated. There are times when excess of joy oi sorrow, like a stun ning blow upon the body, paralyzes the mind, and for a time renders it incapable of expressing any emotion. Mr. Edwards was deeply concerned for his child; Mrs. Edwards and Delia, overcome with delight; and Helen atnd   -28      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. Aunt Dorotlhy, confounded by surprise. While they are each pursuing their meditations, looking at one another, and col- lecting their scattered senses, it is but fair thdatthe reader should be made acquainted with the testator. Jacob Storer, many years before, had married Mrs. Ed- wards's youngest sister Delia. Mrs. Storer lived only to give birth to a daughter named for herself, and who survived her mother only a few months. After the decease of his wife and child, Mr. Storer became a resident in Mr. Edwards's family. Delia was then an infant, and not far from the age of his own lost child. The bereaved father gradually transferred his af- fections from the dead to the living. He entreated that sha might be called Delia, and said, "as he had named the child she should inherit his property." The parents were more flattered by his affection for their child, than by his promise of heirship, for he was then a poor man, and in all probability would remain so. It waa therefore considered a good joke upon his poverty, and if not forgotten, remembered only as a piece of pleasantry. Mr. Storer remained-in Mfr. Edwards's family till Delia was be tween two and three years old. He was then called away on business, and the parting with Delia seemed to him like bury- ing again his lost child. Mr. Storer intended to be absent only a few years; but, contrary to his expectations, went never to return. For a time -he occasionally wrote to Mr. and Mrs. Edwards, and sent a love-token to Delia. But as nothing had been heard from him for many years, he was very naturally supposed to be dead. "Now, Delia, I hope you will be as happy as you sup. posed you should," said Helen, who was the first to break the : i silence.                           : a "( Thank you, I am not going to be so closely confined to  : X' ( + A.   THE SURPRISE.         29 work, from morning till night," said Delia, throwing aside her straw; "I mean to have some time to read, improve, and enjoy myself." "I want you to think," said Mr. Edwards, as he noticed her look of exultation, that as yet you have received nothing, and cannot until you have taken the proper steps. Yodu do nt know certainly how much property there is, nor how much will be spent in obtaining it. i4l is, in a measure, uncertain. Be not lifted up, but be humble and industrious, and if it - should prove as the letter and Will indicate, may God: give you grace to bear this sudden accumulation of fortune safely, Meanwhile, I will take the papers to Esq. Nortlh, and get his advice." "HHow much are you going to give me?" said Helen, looking up archly, as her father left the room. "O! you are satisfied with your present condition ; andi I do n't think it is best to disturb and endanger you with the trials and hazards to which the possession of wealth woulid expose you," said Delia playfully. "That is very thoughtful in you, truly," replied: Relei, "but I have been equally as considerate. It was out of be, nevolence, I can soon convince you, that I asked the question, There is nothing more mortifying and harassing to rich person than poor relations,--especially if they are very neat kindred. Now I was thinking how embarrassing it must befto you, in your glory, to be pointed out as the sister of poor nme i So you see if you share your riches with me, the comparisot- will not be so invidious." "Share!" said Delia, laughing; for she considered the matter rather a caustic joke; "and for how large a share :of "the joys and sorrows would you subscribe?" "You know," replied Helen, I do n't believe in dietating Providence; and doing so to a richer and elder sister,; would  80       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. be about equivalent to that; but if you should be inclined to share them equally, it would be a dispensation to which I ought to submit with becoming grace, both on your account and my own." "A modest proposition, truly," replied Delia; "I'm afraid you would submit better than I." "You laugh," replied Helen, " but it's no laughing matter! Next to being poor ourselves, it is the hardest thing to bear, to see our near relatives poor. We sisters have always dressed just alike, and there was a sisterly propriety in the thing. We appeared better in the eyes of the world. Now, the inequality will, in its practical effects, be something be- sides a joke." So Delia began to see. "I hope you will remember;" said her brother George, who, with Timothy had been listening to the wonderful letter, a that you have a brother as well as a sister, and brothers be -r up the family name! Helen may marry a rich man, and oo as well off as you, but it is hard to shake off the reputation of a poor brother.". "And how much do you want," said Delia. "I? I want to be an honor to you and the family! so I'd like to have you send me to college, and carry me through a profession; aid then how proudly you can speak of 'my broth- er, Rev. Mr. --,'-or ' Judge -- or ' Doctor EdwardsP!' I'll distinguish myself, I'll warrant you, only give me the money.   "How much do you want, to accomplish your object ." said Delia, laughing good-naturedly, for she had not yet grown close by' actual possession, and it was not a bad idea her brother named. In her imagination, she was going to ,o .  great things.                   n     : "Samuel Doane says his father has spent $2,000 on James'a  (?. ,   THE SURPRISE.         31 education, and he is not through yet," said George. But I 'll be economical, and only take that sum to carry me through, and make a man that you will be proud of." "And then you would still have the disgrace of your older brother," said Timothy. While you are figuring in your silks and satins, I shall be round the farm in' my dirty clothes, looking so you will be ashamed to speak to me if any of your rich and gay acquaintances are near you." "And what do you want?" said Delia, determined to hear it out. "I should like money to set myself up handsomely i busi- ness ; then I 'll make a merchant-gentleman! If I had had the capital, I would have done something handsome at it before now. I never could bear the idea of being in debt, or perhaps I should have tried to borrow." Delia knew that her brother possessed the abilities to make him a good merchant; and if it had not called for so much money from herself, would have entered into it with all her heart. "How much would it take to carry your plans into exe- cution," she continued, addressing Timothy. "Two thousand dollars would be little enough; but I will be as moderate as George, and settle for that," said Tim- othy. "Then here are Father, and Mother, and Aunt Dorothy; it wont look very well for all of us to be rising in the world, and leave them delving; it would be a greater disgrace than all the rest," said Delia. "This is a pretty good beginning! Helen will take half, George and Timothy $4,000 more, and then add the support of Father and Mother, and how much should I have left?" "O! I promised to share the joys and sorrows; so I'll be responsible for half you give to Timothy, George, Father,    32:      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. Mother, and anybody else you choose to, include," said Helen gaily. "And then you 'l have double, treble, and I can't tell how ; many times more than any of the rest of us, save Helen!"  said Timothy. "If we can get along with so small a portion, ^ -wliy can't you be content with forty times the amount?" I think Mr. Storer had better have left his property to the , family, and done with it! ' said Delia, pettishy.   '-It would doubtless have been as: well for you," said Aunt Dorothy. "Here at least is one vexation it would have saved  , gou. "O! we will share them with her! they all said at once,   right merrily.  "You are; very kind, but I think IP'l keep my money, and dispose of my vexations for the present, myself," said Delia;  or rather, I will do neither, now, for I have not received it  yet. But when it does come, you shall be remembered, and  I hope satisfactorily."  Though Delia spoke kindly, this was a vexation she could wiot drive away.- The conversation had taken a playful turn, but it had been based upon disagreeable and' perplexing truths, And questions of practical moment had arisen, which were not  easily settled. And, as she intimated, it would have been  easier to have had less bequeathed to her, than to part with so much after it had all been, once, her own; and yet it looked very reasonable in them to desire a share. Nothing is more  vexatious th human nature, than reasonable difficulties or ob- jetfions: to our' wishes. It may be proper here to state, that in the interval between the time that Delia had expressed the wish to take the risk of being rich, and the receipt of this letter, which was nearly a year, she: had) with several of her associates, become hope- fully pious; And though she appeared well, yet she looked:at   THE SURPRISE.         83 he world with the eyes of a young and inexperienced per- son. It seemed to her bright and beautiful. Her conversa- sion with Aunt Dorothy at the time she expressed the wish, now recurred to her mind, and she resolved that this legacy should not injure her. In the retirement of her chamber she prayed fervently for grace to do right-that she might be kept from evil and do good to others, as well as enjoy herself. i And she was sincere in this prayer. Her consciousness of sincerity led her to look upon herself with some complacency. The presence of such desires in her heart, seemed to her a pledge that she should not fail in her resolves; so she con-  X sidered the matter safe in God's hands, forgetting that we are commanded to " watch" as well as pray, " lest we enter into temptation." God has never promised, that if we "take coals in our bosoms our clothes shall not be burned," even if we pray in faith that they may not. Neither has he promised, if we adopt wrong principles of action, that we shall be kept from- the evils to which they legitimately tend. The beautiful world, with its myriads of untasted joys now within her reach, never appeared more desirable, and she sat down,--not to inquire, first, "Lord, what wilt THOU have me to do?" but to ponder (wisely, as she thought) on the nice boundaries between serving God and mammon, and determine how near she could come to the line, and not go over it. ' "I may," said she to herself, " certainly purchase many things for my comfort and luxury, which I could not before; it would look niggardly if I did not, and I shall, in that way, do good, by keeping my money in circulation. Purehasing articles of those who are obliged to make or sell them,is as important a way of doing good as giving them money. I may now stop earning my living, there is no necessity for it, and there are enough things that I can do beside, without being idle; and then, too, I have a right to enjoy myself. There is   84       CITY AXD COUNTRY LIFE. nothing gloomy in religion, and I ought not to conduct so as to lead others to think so." After all these duties were attended to, she was going to give what she could spare, for benevolent purposes. The principles which Delia here laid down were true, so- far as they went. But in stopping there, she adopted a creed, which every worldling would approve, and even the arch- apostate himself could sign, without being hampered! Half thie truth for the whole, becomes, in its practical application, a falsehood. This was Satan's first step in corrupting Eve; and his first attack upon Delia was turning glorious truth into a lie. Her last proposition, to give what she could spare after her other desires were gratified, though according to the course of many Christians, was wholly wrong. She had no right to serve herself first, and God last. He who said to the poor widow of Sarepta, who had but a lhndful of meal in a barrel, and a cruise of oil, "Make first a little cake for the Lord arid live thou and thy son upon the rest'" equally required of this rich girl, to " honor the Lord with her substance, and the first-fruits of all her increase." After she had " brought all her tithes into the store-house," she had, as she said, a right to purchase many things, which she could not afford while poorer, and to enjoy them; but she had no right to place her happiness in them. She should have regarded them as a means, and not an end. She should have graven on her heart, that Christ has said, equally to the rich as well as the poor, "He that would come after me, muist deny himself daily, and take up his cross, and follow me'"- deny himself in not set- ting his heart upon these things, in not obtaining them, when his enjoyment of them would be the means of injury to others, and in, spending all his time and talents to the glory of God. : Had she reflected that it is; as much more difficult to deny !   THE SURPRISE.         3S one's self with the means of gratification in one's power, as it is more trying to suffer amputation than bear the same amount of pain in an ordinary way, she would have seen that not merely a single prayer, but a double and constant watch was necessary, She would have seen that increased wealth would call for increased self-denial,- instead of open- ing before her a life of ease, great riches would require as much active effort as extreme poverty, though in an opposite direction. This she entirely overlooked. She believed she now had a right to a life of ease; she would not have dared call it idleness, and she left her chamber satisfied with her good prayer and good wishes. u Here is a document that Mr. Edwards left for you," said Julius to his father, as Esq. North entered his office. "He says he will call again in a few moments, and see what you say to it." "It is nothing very extensive, I suppose, if it comes from him, for he is neither rich nor quarrelsome," said Esq. North, as he sat down in his ample chair, and began to look it over. "Aha!" said he, looking over his gold-bowed spec's, as he finished reading it, this bids fair to be a profitable concern to the one who has the entire control of it! It may be worth our while to secure the management of this case!" Mr. Edwards called again, and, according to advice, left the business in their hands. At dinner, Esq. North communicated the intelligence to his family. , I expect we shall see some rare specimens of mushroom lignity," said Mrs. North, straightening herself, as her hus. band detailed the circumstances of the bequest. "Very likely," said Esq. North, " but there is no putting   86       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. them down. Delia is by far the richest person in the place, and it will be for my advantage to have you on pretty good terms with them." "Well," said Mrs. North, "I'll call there with the girls; it will be a rich treat to see them so suddenly undertake to play gentry." "a They are not a low family," said Esq. North, and the girls and Mrs. Edwards will play their part well. Indeed, it has been hard for them to be anything else but ladies this long time." Y-"'Yes, I think so," said!ss North, who began to see some good in them, now there was plenty of money there. "Do n't you recollect, Phemy, we noticed what a stately and majestic air Delia had, when we passed her, some time ago?" "If they took upon themselves such consequential airs in 'the green tree, what will they do in the dry? '" said Mrs. North. There is the old man," said Miss North, "it will take all their skill to remodel him!" "I hope if they do, that they wont try to put a new soul into him," said Julius, " for he is one of the best men living." "I long to go and see how they will manage," said Miss North, in an ecstasy. "Wait till Mr. Bartlett comes," said Phemy, "and let him go too." But Miss North had her own reasons for wishing to pre-4 vent a meeting between him and the interesting heiress, and she therefore replied, " O, I can't wait his slow movements; and besides, you and he will quarrel, all the way, about the duty of girls being domestic. It is so tiresome! Mother, you ought to have heard them I I don't know how Phemy dared to say such things to him "I           I    THE SURPRISE.         37 "Was he offended?" inquired Mrs. Nlorth, with some anxiety. "No, he 'll take anything from her; let Phemy and him go together," said Miss North, who knewfthat this proposal would lay the matter on the table, - at least she supposed it would, for the present, as it would hardly seem proper for one of her age to introduce a stranger to them. The news of Delia's good fortune now spread rapidly. She became -the object of attention and conversation from every one in her native town; and if she had been disposed to employ her time in the execution of any important plans for her own good, or for the benefit of others; the interrup- tion and dissipation of mind, which such an influx of company produced, would have rendered it impossible. Laura Temple, the particular friend of Delia, was deeply affected. Instead of rejoicing, as Delia supposed she would, she grew envious. She had known no rivals among her asso- ciates, but now felt she had a formidable one. Delia was raised to a position she could never occupy, unless she should marry a wealthy mnan, which was very unlikely to happen, because she did not associate with any such. Mrs. Temple, who had always looked upon her daughter with maternal pride, and felt she had no superiors in her circle, was no less affected than Laura. "I suppose she will feel quite above us," said the mother., "We shall see," said Laura, " you know she promised to come and make us a visit on Tuesday." It so happened that an unprecedented number of calls necessarily prevented Delia from going at the unfashionably- eaMy hour at which she had always been accustomed. As soon as possible she left for the farm-house, rejoicing in the thought of meeting her dear friend. To her, she thought she could impart the news of her good fortune, and find the same 4r          -      '    38      .CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. ardent sympathy that had ever .been manifested in all that interested her. She was therefore unprepared for the saluta-- tion which awaited her. "You have grdwn quite fashionable, as well as rich," said Laura, in a tone which ill concealed that she felt hurt at the lateness of the lour.- "I came, dear Laura, as soon as possible," said Delia. "I was detained by company so long, that if I had been going anywhere else, I should have given it up. But I could not deny myself the pleasure of coming here." "I suppose you have a great many visitors, now you have become so great a lady"' said Laura with a sigh. You'll hardly have a place for old friends!" Delia smiled tenderly, and said, "I am not aware that I am really any more of a lady now, than before. And as to new friends, you never need fear that they'll crowd you out." But her quick perception now taught her what she had entirely overlooked before, that rejoicing with another in the possession of things which reminds one of his own want, is a severe test offriendstip ; therefore she could not expect sym- pathy in that which now filled all her thoughts. Delia was in the habit of controlling her feelings, and con- sequently was enabled to pass the afternoon in a manner which was agreeable to her friend, but it was far from being so to herself. She was constantly reminded that they con- sidered her above them, and they felt obliged to briilg to her mind everything which would prevent her from setting an undue value upon herself. "What are you doing," said Delia to Laura, as she noticed her carrying out the best china at tea-time. a Going to set the table, to be sure," replied Laura. "Now Laura," said Delia, going up to her and putting her arm around her affectionately, " carry that back and treat me   THE SURPRISE.         39 tsA one of the family, as you used to do. What have I done, that I should be treated as a stranger?" Laura looked up and returned the loving expression, and Delia began to feel she had at last conquered the envious feelings, when she was chilled by Mrs. Temple's unwelcome response. "Yes, yes, Laura, carry them away," said she, "you never used them on common occasions when Delia came here before, and she is n't any better now than she was before she Was rich. Our common set are good enough for us, they are good enough for her."                  i Delia knew all this was true, and would have been willing to have said as much herself; but what would have fallen with condescending grace from her own lips, seemed almost an insult, coming in such a mariner, from one whom she had always considered as an old friend. "I'll just step out and look at your flowers, while you are so busy," said Delia to Laura, for she longed to be free from constraint for a moment, and thought she could, in that way, better avoid showing ler wounded feelings. O, ho! How d' ye do, Delia!" said a well-known voice, as she was standing in the garden, which was in the rear of the house, picking a rose to pieces unconsciously. The voice proceeded from farmer Temple, who stood on the broad stone of the back door, washing his face and hands. "So you 've got to be a great lady," said he. "Do you think so?" said Delia ; "I am glad you think- I am so much improved." "I do n't know about the improvement," said he, wiping one finger after another, "but they tell me you've had a great deal of money left you. Niow,' Delia," he continued, "there 's one thing I want you to remember." "What is it?" replied Delia. "That you a'nt any better now than you was before:'   40       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. -"I sha'n't be very likely to forget it," replied Delia, " if all my friends are as kind as you," and she mentally prayed that they might not be. ' You must remember you are a poor man's child," added Mr. Temple, as though he had not said enough. "The garden is no shelter from envy," thought Delia, and taking a beautiful rose-bud, she reentered the house, resolving to repress and rebuke, by sweetness, what was so unpleasant, and, in every other way, so invincible. "There! does n't that look beautifully?" said she, turning 'to Mrs.. Temple as she placed the bud in Laura's hair. "Yes,I thought Frank Atherton would- never stop looking at her, one evening, when she had one -in her hair," said Mrs. Temple, who always thought Frank was a favorite with Delia. "A serpent among roses," thought Delia ; but she persisted in her attempt to drive away envy by good humor, and re- plied, pleasantly, "Frank is a very good judge of beauty, , and I suspect he's pretty neighborly here, when he is at ' home." "Yes," said Mrs. Temple, "Frank is very friendly. I thought when he saw the city belles, he would never think of his country associates again, and I told him so. 'I have n't found any handsomer there than here,' said he, looking at Laura. 'But you have seen richer ones there,' said I. Yes,' he replied, 'but I've seen some here, that are rich in themselves, and do n't need anything else.'" "He would n't say you needed nothing else, if he was here now," thought Delia, almost discouraged.   CHAPTER IV. A DILEMMA. "Gold pays the worth of all things here, But not of love." THE news of Delia's good fortune was not long in reach- ing Frank Atherton. But he could not gratify his wishes to visit her, if he had any such, till his usual vacation, which was long after the news had become an old story. Delia had not supposed he was decided in his preference for Laura, without some appearances of reason. Divers little presents had been repeatedlv shown her by her friend, which hadl served to strengthen her former views. Now, his call upon her she considered only as a thing to be expected from an old acquaintance. But the thought of Delia's wealth, added to her other good qualities, which he had long known, now made her far more valuable in his eyes, than the more delicate Laura, with the prospect of scarcely a competence. Of this, Delia had no idea. She always enjoyed his:society, and now, that she supposed he knew she was acquainted with his partiality for Laura, she wished to appear as happy and attentive as she had ever done, or rather more so, that he might neither think her unhappy now, or particularly interested in him before. Frank was one of those young men who never dreamed of being repulsed by a lady. He never meant to venture an of- fer, till he was sure of his acceptance. It was therefore with the intention of ascertaining the views of the interesting heir- CSs in reference to himself, as well as in remembrance of days of " auld lang syne," that he made this call. He was pretty sure, before she knew of this bequest, that he was an object 4*   42       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. of more than ordinary interest in her eyes ; but whether she would not now look down upon him as presuming, if he aspired-to her hand, he was not certain. The uncommonly cordial reception which she gave him, was so flattering to his vanity, that it enabled him to-appear to the best advantage. Delia, as we have said, had her own reasons for desiring to do her best. The reader will not, there- fore, be surprised, that with such materials the afternoon passed pleasantly, or that they became increasingly interested in each other. Mrs. Edwards, who knew nothing of Delia's supposition in regard to his predilections for Laura, warmly in- vited Frank to stay to tea, which invitation he gladly accepted. That evening was one of those bewitching moonlight nights, which makes lunatics of more staid people, - throwing its own loveliness over the sober realities of life, making all ap- pear as faultless and beautiful as characters and life in romance. Frank proposed to Delia to call, with him, upon Laura, which Delia felt constrained to do for the above mentioned reasons. This invitation rendered certain, in Delia's eyes, her former suspicions ; and the readiness with which she accepted it, as - much deceived Frank. And now, reader, you have three things given,- a digni- fied, interesting heiress, a sensible, agreeable gentleman, and a fine moon-light. If, with these known quantities, you can- i not surmise a fourth, you are not a Yankee. As they chose to be alone, it would hardly be doing as we would be done by to relate the particulars of the conversation. Delia was aston- ished. She had considered this question settled, long before it had been asked. And when, as she supposed, Frank was fairly beyond her reach, he appeared as valuable as articles usually do, which are not easily obtained. While she liked his manners and abilities, she respected him none the less, because he freely chose her friend in preference to herself g   -            A DILEMMA.  .        4 as trying as it was. It is natural to wish to appear well in the eyes of those who can be happy without our mighty selves. But now a painful thought flashed across her brain. He loved Laura's person, but her money! Her proud spirit now contended with her long-cherished regard, and the result you have already anticipated: yes, she refused the only man whom she had ever thought she could love! It had been a bitter drop in Delia's cup, to resign Frank to Laura in the first place; but now, her trouble was, for a time, greater than she could bear. Before, if he was not a lover, he was a friend; now, a refusal must turn acid all those pleasant remembrances, and that long-cherished friendship, which had been among her heart's dearest treasures. Delia's self-command enabled her to preserve a proper control over her emotions, till after her return home. "Are you sick, my dear," said her mother, as she noticed her pale countenance. "I do n't feel quite as well as usual, but I shall feel bet- ter...." Delia was not'able to finish the sentence, but staggered back and fell, fainting, into the arms of her mother. The next morning Delia rose pale and dispirited. Going to her drawer for some trifling article, her eye fell upon the letter from Calcutta. A shudder came over her, a strange flashing of the truth. Taking it up, while the tears fell upon it, she sank down into a chair, and indulged in the following soliloquy :-- I  L("Why should I weep when I look upon you,-the cause of lsuch bright hopes, the messenger which promised the ful-   filment of my long-cherished desires! Who could have sup-  posed that anything but pleasing, emotions could be awakened i:  .               .          .     "      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. by the sight of you? But alas! you are innocently the caube of my sufferings at this moment. :If Frank had never heard of you, he would never have been induced to make this fatal offer, and we should have been friends as before. But now, 1 have been obliged to refuse him, and this friend- ship will be changed to cold neglect and perhaps bitter scorn. It was hard indeed, in the first place, to think he should like any one better than me; but now it is infinitely worse,-- friendship changed to hatred! Kind, cruel letter! you ought to bring untold happiness to pay for this! But perhaps I wrong you and Frank too! Perhaps this offer was the result of disinterested affection! Then why did he not manifest as much for me as for Laura, before I was reputed so rich? True, but if I can't trust Frank, how can I ever know who is disinterested in his friendship? Perhaps I was too proud and jealous, and felt that a girl who had so much money to be- stow upon a lover, ought not to take up with half a heart. Well, what if I did! that is right. - Yes, but right is not might, if the converse be true. "It is a clear case, Imust make up my mind to remain single all my life, or manry at a venture ; for I never can know that my wealth is not my chief attraction : a sad dilemma, truly!" Well, if 1 must be married for my riches, why not marry the one I like, and one I know can make me happy, and is every way worthy of me? That would mend the matter greatly, if I felt all the while that if, by any sudden freak of fortune, Laura should become rich, he would still wish for her, though bound to me I "But why, if I think so badly of Frank, do I care so much for him, and make myself so miserable? If my suspicions are true, I am very foolish. The truth is, I do know; that is, I have good reason to believe he had a great regard for me before. But what is the use in talking or thinking about it?   .I          A DILEMMA.          45 ;::Whether he ever loved me before or not, one thing is certain -he does not now. I have done the deed which has decided it--I must make the best of it, and I will." At these words, she leaned forward, and placing her elbow upon the window- seat, sat with her head upon her hand, looking vacantly upon the prospect before her, till she was startled by the kind voice of Aunt Dorothy, who had entered unperceived, and noticing her dejected looks, inquired in a sprightly tone: - How is the heiress this morning?" ,Vinegar upon nitre' could not have been more unwelcome. "O! Aunt, don't call me so; perhaps that was a false alarm," said she, striving to conceal her tears. "I have not received a cent yet; it is inconvenient to have the fame of riches without the reality." Could Delia's proud spirit have stooped to unburden her mind, Aunt Dorothy would have been just the person to have given consolation and sympathy. She, it has already been intimated, had had her own trials of the same nature. -  When young, she was not beautiful, but good-looking. Her principal attraction consisted in a kind of smartness, de- veloped not only in her air and manner, but in everything she said and did. When about twenty, she became interested in, and ultimately engaged to a young man, to whom she gave her whole heart, and who, in her eyes, was worthy of the treasure. About two years she was happy in the enjoyment of his love, and in blissful anticipations of the future. She was sitting at the window of her chamber one evening, ; expecting to visit with him, the next day, some of her friends, ' :: when she noticed him coming towards the house. She has- ? tened down to welcome him as soon as he entered. His man- ?i ner was constrained,--he appeared embarrassed. She at- A, tempted to draw him into conversation. At last, with some I hesitation, he disclosed the object of his visit. He briefly   4.6      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. stated that he always respected her but he began to doubt if the affection he "had for her was sufficient to justify mar- riage. He would carry her to her friends, as they were ex- pecting her, and she had no other conveyance - wished they might remain friends;" said, " it was very possible he might wish to renew the engagement-he wanted only to under- stand his own feelings." Aunt Dorothy drew herself up with offended pride and dignity, while her heart sunk proportionately low, and replied that she " certainly would release him from all present and future engagements to her. If he could not know his heart in that time, he never could; she did not blame him for not loving her, he was undoubtedly right; she should insist upon visiting her friends alone, and trouble him no further." The young man was considerably moved by her manner. She never looked better than now. Her eye flashed, her form was erect, and her spirit such as he liked in a woman; and he was not a little piqued that she should have granted him more than he desired, and dismissed him forever. ZBut he had no alternative; she bade him good evening, withdrew to her chamber, and threw herself upon her bed, a perfect con-, trast to the spirited Miss she had appeared in the parlor, in the presence of her former lover. That had been a show of resolution. Her's was a firm, unyielding disposition, and her affections once placed uponl an object, were fixed intensely. Therefore the greater the trial. Affection and pride seemed to have had their death-blow. For hours she lay moaning upon her bed, or walking her chamber in agony. She passed a sleepless night, but she could no longer remain unnoticed. The family with whom she boarded, expected she would leave the next day, and staying would not conceal the matter. Something must be done, and it was that necessity of doing something, that under   A DILEMMA.          47 -i God, as it has a thousand times before in similar cases, helped , her to endure the trial. She must meet the family,- they would know that her lover did not come for her,-and she again determined to meet it with firmness. She dressed her- self, appeared at breakfast with composure, and engaged an- - other conveyance to her friends, where she tried to console herself with visiting. But that would not do. Her affections were not so easily healed. She could not bear the mirthful- ness of her associates, and she determined to leave them as i soon as possible for some quiet and retired place. A " lodge in some vast wilderness," would have been preferred, where she could indulge her melancholy. A situation soon offered, i and she determined to accept the solicitation of a Mrs. Wells, who had long been an invalid, to come and keep her com- pany, and assist is taking care of her, for her board. It was a place that well accorded with her feelings,-- a two-story unpainted house, out of sight of any other habitation. There - t were no rose-bushes, jasmine, or anything romantic. Two tall, straight poplar trees stood, in proper dignity, each side of the - front gate, and guarded the grassy yard. The windows were -ligh from the floor, which gave the rooms a gloomy aspect, and the panes of glass were small and numerous, as in many old-fashioned houses. The family consisted of Mr. Wells, his wife, one son, and a girl, a "maid of all work." Here a young, romantic girl, a could find nothing attractive. Mr Wells's little boy was bright enough and well enough, but his hair had a most unruly stiff- ness about it, and his clothes an unfashionable make, that would have suited the most fastidious stickler for plain dress. He was washed clean every night and morning; but during the day his tumbles and gambols in the ploughed ground, : gave him anything but an appearance of cleanliness. ;i In this retired place, Aunt Dorothy's remedies for a   48       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. wounded heart, were to be found in making mustard plasters, dressing blisters, and in performing many of the tedious ope- rations of taking care of the sick, - one of the last places to which we should suppose a young girl would resort to divert her mind from trouble. But this was an afflicted family,- here was a bond of union. Mr. and Mrs. Wells were also intelligent Christians, and he spent all the time he could com- mand in reading aloud from the Bible and other kindred works, and endeavoring to prepare the mind of the invalid for an entrance into that world, where the inhabitant shall no more say I am sick, and where God shall wipe the tears from all eyes. Aunt Dorothy had, several years before, "obtained a hope," during a revival in her native village, and there was reason to believe she then became a Christian; but she now saw  H that she had not only hoped for forgiveness through Christ, i: but also to be able to serve God and mammon; that she had been imperceptibly worshipping and serving the creature more than the Creator. The next day after her arrival at the farm-house was the Sabbath. Mr. Wells sel cted the hymn for family worship that evening, with. referen -e to his own and his wife's peculiar afflictions, knowing notiing of Aunt Dorothy's trials. But her young heart responded to every sentiment, as he read, slowly and distinctly, "How vain are all things here below; How false, and yet how fair! Each pleasure has its poison, too, And every sweet, a snare. The brightest things below the sky Give but a flatt'ring light; We should suspect some danger nigh, Where we possess delight." But as he proceeded with the next two, she sobbed con- rulsively.   A DILMMA.          :49 "Our dearest joys and nearest friends, The partners of our blood, How they divide our wav'ring minds, And leave but half for God I "The fondness of a creature's love,- How strong it strikes the sense! Thither our warm affections move, Nor can we call them thence'" And with the heart and the understanding she joined in the prayer of the closing stanza: "Dear Saviour! let thy beauties be My soul's eternal food; And grace command my heart away From all created good." She now turned again to the only Being capable of satis- fying the cravings of an immortal mind, and consecrated her- self to God anew and forever. And she was not only resigned and submissive, she was ihappy, -was willing to spend her days in the humble and self-denying duties in which she was now engaged. It was no longer a gloomy place. Everything looked beautiful. She was not only with God's people, but she was surrounded by his works. The grass, the woods, the sun, the stars, were to be seen there, in their glorious beauty. The moon shone just as when she had viewed it walking with her lover; but now, instead of throwing its delusive spell around every object upon which she gazed, its sober light spoke to her of change, and of a higher source, from which it drew its lovely beams. Her lover again sought an interview, and plead to be re- ceived back, but she was inexorable. "If he marrmed her, he might then find out he did not love her. She bore him no ill will,-hoped he would be happy." Aunt Dorothy would never afterwards receive proposals ,F   50       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFI.. of marriage from any one. She literally became a folliowcr of Christ. She ministered to the sick and suffering, comforted the broken-hearted, endeavored to bring lost sinners to God, and make the rough places of life smooth and even. And she found plenty to do. Her countenance was quiet and peace- ful as the heart it indicated, and her joyful presence welcome everywhere. She found her comfort in blessing others, and in patiently meeting the ills of life, rather than in murmuring or striving to escape the trials allotted her by Providence,- like the busy bee, extracting honey even from thistles. She be- came a living illustration of the words of David: "I understand more than the ancients, because I have kept thy precepts." Let no one say that Aunt Dorothy was a fictitious charac- ter, and that we may expect such good things only from ideal persons, who never had a real existence. She was a living Christian; one of those burning and shining lights kindled by divine grace, to shine in this dark world. And though now eclipsed by death, is not extinguished, but burns with a brighter lustre, and mingles its rays with myriads of the re- deemed church, in one of the golden candlesticks before the throne of God. But though dead, Aunt Dorothy will- continue to speak throughout this narrative, as she did while living, when suit- able occasion offers. We will now return to Frank. The truth was, lie, like all the other gentlemen, had bowed down to Laura's beauty, for in this she reigned supreme. It was the custom for all to pay her attention that they would not pay others, and they would hardly have gained any notice among such a crowd of ad- mirers, if each had not tried some special method to obtain her favor. Frank had never made up his mind to marry hier, but he had striven to be one of the favored among so many I admirers. Delia he had always liked for other reasons, but   A DIEMMTIA.         51 he hacd never seriously determined to marry either, till he eard of Delia's good fortune. le then felt aroused to make decision, and act immediately, lest he should be antidpatel by another. Heforc, he felt there was no necessity for haste anc was disosed tou enjoy himself by being the favored, both. of beauty and good sense. He rejoiced that he could distance many, when he approached either Dclia or Laura. For De- lia he had a real regard, and she was beautiful enough, in his eyes to have satisfied his reasonable wishes; and if he could have been content to have laid aside the vanity of flirtation with the belle of his circle, He might have been the accepted If Delia had not imbibed the spirit too often felt by rich people,--a jealousy of the admiration which is justly be- stowed upon some slight personal advantage of those who possess but a tithe of their blessings, she might have post- poned so momentous a decision. Frank was a deeply chagrined at his rejection. His first thought was to go and be revenged by marrying Laura,- but no, he spurned the idea, now that he compared her with the sensiole Delia, doubly valuable because out of his reach. She felt that he would be a man, and a man, too, whom she should be proud to honor, as rich as she was; but a nature like Laura's woulod not assist him to do this. He therefore - sought to cure his wounded heart by visions of future great-   ness, and engaging his whole soul in pursuit of the means of attaining it,--ambition taling the place of love. This was an Ce* in both of their lives, from which they ;;. might date a new development, or formation of character. Disappointed love, in the words of the experienced, "is one of those trials, the result of lwhich- upon the after-life is so - critical, that he who is enabled to endure it manfully, should be grateful to God, not only for his escape, but for the trial; ^S1 1.   52       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. because the graces of mind and heart, not necessarily Chris- tian graces, which are devolved in the exercise of such a trial, form a character so much more noble and exalted, than the same individual would ever have attained by smoothly   : passing along with the current.      - Frank met the trial by turning to a source of comfort which constantly required control and self-denial; Delia, by pluzgngi into new pleasures, to crowd out the renmembrances of the old. Not that Delia was really worse than Frank. We are more the creatures of circumstance than we suppose, till subjected to the trial. When Frank was refused by Delia, he lost all; when Aunt Dorothy was disappointed in her lover, her earthly all was taken away. But Delia stood upon the threshold of a life of wealth and fashion, with its thousand novel charms before her imagination. - She was just entering a state, where "the cares of this world, the deceitfulness of riches, and the lust of other things, choke the word," and pervert the provi- dences of God, " that they become unfruitful."  t   CHAPTER V. A PEEP BEIiIND TIIE CURTAIN. "Oft expectation fails, and mos oft there  "ere most it promises; and oft it hits Where hope is coldest, and despair most sits.-Shakspeare. THE time that elapsed between the arrival of the letter, informing Delia that Mr. Storer had bequeathed the principal part of his property to her, and the reception of the same, was long and tedious. She, like most other girls, had no practical knowledge of the delays which frequently occur, of necessity, in the settlement of estates where everything is done as rapidly as may be. Of course it is not strange that she should grow impatient at the length of time which was consumed by Esq. North in nursing the case to his own advantage. It is true she was not left, all this time, without any Otidings or remittances from India. It seems that iMr. Storer had not only been very fortunate in accumulating wealth himself, but had also married a lady of fortune, by whom he was blessed with several children. Again surrounded with a lovely family, and possessing the means of procuring almost every luxury, hemight have been, for a short time, consid- ered happyman. But his joys were fleeting. Hiswife lived but a few years, and her children did not long survive her. This second and severe bereavement, of his whole family, preyed upon his health; so that, in a few years, he wasted away by chronic disease, though in the midst of his days. During his sickness, which was of such a nature that he knew it was incurable, he found a melancholy pleasure in bequeath- ing his last blessing which remained to him - his property-- in such a way as would tend most to keep him in remembrance of those by whom he had formerly been known and loved.   54       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. In order that his friends in D might have some idea of the magnificence in which he had spent his last days, he gave direction that his full service of plate and Sevres china should be sent to Delia. The first remittance that she re- ceived was the chests containing, in little partitions for the  purpose, lined with velvet, the several articles of plate which he had used at his own table. After another delay, a little money was received, but hardly enough to supply the present demands which seemed to be necessarily made upon her to support the style of living in accordance with one who had such great expectations. Mr. Edwards's house was neatly and prettily furnished, a simple elegance was visible through- out, but it was a simplicity which looked like meanness in the eyes of Delia, whose ideas, since the reception of the plate and china, were raised to a proportionate height. The home of the possessor of so much wealth, must undergo a thorough repair. As Delia received money from time to time, she made im- : provements upon her father's house, and substituted costly furniture in place of the plain, but neat and pretty articles I whouhich had corresponded so well With one another and the  house. The plain white fringed curtains, which in her younger days she had considered the ornament and glory of the par lor, were now removed, and gorgeous crilson d amask and Torgeous crimson damask and white muslin flowed down from gilded branches, which sup- ported them.  The plain mahogany table, with its twisted legs, was discarded, and an elegant one, .of the same material, with a marble top, was substituted in its place. The flag-bottomed chairs were supplanted by sofa and chairs of mahogany and hair, a  mirror of sufficient size to reflect her whole person, occupied the place of its humble, predecessor; and similar changes were effected throughout the louse. Al-   A PEEP BEHND THE CURTAIN.      55 terations were made: some new apartments were added, the former sitting-room furnished like a parlor, and the straw, which BMrs. Edwards, Aunt Dorothy, and Lucy still continued to sew, removed to a more retired and re- mote part of the house. "What makes you look so sad, my dear," said Mrs. Tem- ple, setting down her flat-iron and looking sympathetically at Laura as she entered the farm-house on her return from Mr. Edwards's, where she had surveyed the new furniture. "Everything lboks so shabby here!" said Laura in a de- sponding tone, "compared with things at Mr. Edwards's. And Laura glanced contemptuously around the ample kitchen, with its huge fire-place, its dark-colored ceiling, its two long poles, resting upon hooks, where sundry garments were air- ing, and from which, in fall and winter, many a long crook- necked squash, and strings of dried apple and pumpkins, were suspended,--to the dresser, with its rows of shining tin and pewter, where white plates, large and small, with an edge of blue, were decorously ranged. The door was open into the 4keeping-room."  How tasteless appeared the uncarpeted floor! the cherry table, with its white cloth! How simple and inelegant the small looking-glass above it, adorned with wreaths of evergreen, studded here and there, with flowers made of painted cotton! How old-fashioned and despicable now appeared the pictures, in small wooden frames, ranged around the room, of the Prodigal Son, in his several stages, from his abandonment of his father's home, with his bag of money, to his return in ra s! Once she had thought her home was a pleasant and happy one; now she utterly despised its ancient simplicity. "So they've been fixing up there!" said Mrs. Temple, with a tone of mingled contempt and envy.   CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "You would think so, if you were to go there! Delia has ; bought elegant sofas, carpets, curtains, mirrors, pictures, and such beautiful mantel lamps; you ought to see them! How : , I shall feel now, to set our brass candlesticks before her! I i do n't want her ever to come here again, while we look so; I should die with mortification!" and Laura burst into bitter  tears.                          A O O! do n't take on so," said Mrs. Temple, evidently much : distressed at Laura's misery. "Those candlesticks, and all the rest'of the things in the house, have been set before better people than Delia Edwards ; and I'll tell her so, when she comes here. I don't believe in girls taking airs, and i: thinking they are better than their betters, just because they've got into dead men's shoes. Handsome mantel  lamps! let her buy as many of them as she pleases, and she i wont dare come as near them when they are lighted as you ; will. It will take more than her money can buy to make her look- as well as you."  "You say so, mother, because you haven't seen her dressed. What she lacks in beauty, and that is n't much, is more than made up by her splendid dress. You would n't boast of my looks, if you should see me in my plain clothes beside her, when she has on her fashionable clothes, and is glittering with jewels." "The extravagant girl!" said Mrs. Temple, whose envy, as is frequently the case, had taken a very religious turn. ' She'd better spend her money in giving to the poor, than in finery. What a wicked example she sets, making folks feel so unl!appy, and turning all the young people's heads to think upon such vanities all the time! She'll have a great deal to answer for, so cheer up, and be thankful you have n't got it. It makes me tremble, to think what will become of Delia, if she keeps going on as she has begun;" and Mrs. in, . Mrs.   A PEEP BEHND THE CURTAIN.      57 Temple worked away at her ironing, as though she would demolish all such wicked folks. I do n't feel thankful, nor anything of the kind; I should like to be doing just so, she must be so happy," said Laura, weeping convulsively. While this scene was acted at the farm-house, and Laura was manifesting in other ways her envy and discontent, another, more similar than Laura supposed, was transpiring at the home of the " happy "Delia. There she stands upon the threshold, between the sitting room and parlor, surveying for the hundredth time her newly-furnished rooms, her coun- tenance the perfect picture of mingled disappointment, morti fication, and discontent. "You'll spoil your eyes looking at them[" said Mrs. Ed- wards, going into the back sitting-room and taking her work. , Come and sit down with us, and think of something else.", "I can't help it," said Delia, mechanically following her mother into the same room and sitting down in a low rock- ing chair, and sighing deeply. , When I've spent so much, she continued, " to have the house look no better is really trying!" and she picked up a refuse piece of straw braid, and began to ravel it unconsciously. "You've been working over them so long, that you've got nervous," said lMrs. Edwards; "they'll look better to you by and by. Your furniture is rich and beautiful; some of it is better than they have at Esquire North's." "What's the use in talking so, mother? The furniture is rich and beautiful, I know, but it do n't look well here. What a fool I was to spend so much money in trying to modernize this house! It's only an old and patched one, after all. Putting such elegant things into an ordinary house like this, is like lighting a chandelier in a dark and dirty room-it brings out every defect." L  "But it is neither dark nor dirty; the rooms arc newly painted and papered as handsome as any body's in town," replied her mother. "Yes, but the windows are small and old fashioned; the rooms are low, and the size, style, and finish of the house is totally discordant with such furniture. When I began my improvements, the rooms looked so neat and pretty that I thought the new things I bought would make them perfectly elegant. But every thing I have done hat been making them look worse and worse. Before, it looked as though people of correct taste but moderate means lived here. gow it looks like a coarse person bedizzened with finery,. I can't ' endure it; I shall be mortified to death when any person who is accustomed to correct, style calls upon me. I must get another house immediately. If I had not done anything, I could have borne it; but now I have been making such an effort, it will be considered as a specimen of my low taste." "But, my dear, consider this is- your father's house, and not yours,"said Mrs. Edwards. "We are poor, you are rich, and this is in perfect accordance with the facts; a poor girll beautifying at great expense her father's humble resi- dence. That's a language I like to have it speak. You will soon get married, and then you will be expected to set up an establishment for yourself, and then you can make it as ample as you please; save your money for that time. " "I shall never be married," said Delia, with a long si h. Mrs. Edwards, to whom Delia had not confided her secret in reference to Frank, looked provokingly sceptical upon this point, "The house is n't perfect, we know," said Aunt Dorothy; "and nothing is in this world; but it is richly furnished, and really looks handsomely. It looks worse to you than it does to us, because you have nothing to do but to spy out the Spy out tho   A PEEP BEHND THE CURTAIX,      59 defects. Now look at what is beautiful, as your mother does, and then you will feel happier." ,' Would you tell me, if I had an ink spot on a white satin dress, to be thankful that the rest was white, and pure, and beautiful?" said Delia. "]No; you would say, and say with truth, that because the rest was so nice, it was a greater pity the ink was on- it." "You are right; I should. The better and more excellent an article is, the more obvious is any defect. And now, Delia, learn a lesson in season. One reason why rich people are sometimes very unhappy is because they set their hearts upon having everything exactly right, which they never will have in this world. The nearer they approachi to attaining that end, the keener is their disappointment in not reaching it. The lack of a very slight thing will tarnish a rich man's pos- sessions- it is like the ink spot on the white satin dress. If you cannot be satisfied with anything short of bringing your circumstances exactly to your mind, you will always be un- happy, if you are as rich as Croesus--both because you never will succeed, and because your attention will always be turned to that which is lacking and disagreeable. Bringing your mind to your circumstances is a more humiliating but at the same time a happier process. It begins by submitting cheerfully to those evils which we cannot help, and thus shuts out all those desires which cannot be reasonably grati- fied. Then we are in a state to look at the blessings that remain, and we are increasingly astonished and pleased to find there are so many. We then see that we have 999 reasons for being happy, where we have one for being miser- able. This receipt for happiness will answer for both rich and poor, and produce the same results in both circum- stances." "But there is no necessity for my submitting to this defect.   60      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. I am rich enough to have a large and handsome house, and I mean to have one befitting my circumstances." , "I would wait till you know more definitely about your property," said Mrs. Edwards. "I am sometimes afraid there's foul play between here and India. You may not realize enough to make -it safe for you to make any exten- sive alterations." "That's the worst of it," replied Delia; "I must have this matter investigated immediately." "What can you do?" replied Mr. Edwards, who had come in from the field for his lunch, "I 'll goand talk to Esquire North," replied Delia, ener-' getically. "What good will that do? If he has not done right, he will not hesitate to deceive you now by fair speeches, and if he is doing everything as fast as may be, he will tell you so. I do n't see as anything will be gained, if you go. It will be a smooth story, either way." "But I can't sit still and let things go on so. I 'll consult another lawyer, and have the matter investigated!" "What, before you know there is anything wrong?" con- tinued Mr. Edwards. "You will only irritate Esquire North, and perhaps dispose him to vex you, when he never intended or thought of giving you any trouble. If he is disposed to do you injury, I do n't see how you can help it, because you are in his power. If you only knew just what ought to be done, you would know better whether he was doing right, and whether the difficulty, if there is any, is between him, or some one else. The only course for you to pursue, is to wait and see what the result is. If he has done wrong, it will be made evident sometime." "Yes, when it's too late. I do n't feel disposed to keep 'still and submit tamely to being defrauded of my property."   :X::H?      A PEEP BEHND THE CURTAIN.      61 "You do n't know as you are; you have always had rea- son to suppose Esq. North was an upright man. If you should consult another lawyer, you might find him more dishonest than you are afraid Esq. North is. He might induce you to believe things were going wrong when they were not, simply to get a profitable job. My mind is, you would lose as much as you would gain. All the lawyers about here have heard of your good fortune, and they will be willing to share it with you, if you give them a chance. I told you, when you first received the letter, not- to place too much dependence upon it. You have realized more now than I was afraid you would. I've seen a great deal of manoeuvering in my day"' "Well," said Delia, drawing a long breath, and taking up a bonnet her mother had just finished, and revolving it rapidly upon her hand, " then if it must be so, I'll try and wait as patiently as my impatient spirit will let me. But if the money ever does come, it will be a happy day to me. If I once get it into my hands, I do n't think I will trouble the lawyers with it any more, and I hope they will reciprocate the favor and not trouble me." "Lawyers are not the only persons who will help you spend your money," said Helen, putting a bonnet on to the block and trimming it to the mark. "This reminds me of a conversation I overheard when I went down to see poor widow Simonds, the other day. I meant to have told you before, but we have had so much to do, and so many things going on, I forgot it. Mrs. Simonds had Smith, the master- workman that repaired this house, there, to do a little work for her. He thought I was gone home, and so did Mrs. Si- monds; but I was stopping under the window, to look at her flowers. The window was open, so I heard the conversation distinctly. 'What's to pay?' says Mrs. Simonds. '0,I guess I sha'n't charge you much,' says Smith. ' You may pay me   62       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. what the stock cost, and I'll throw in the labor, as you've had a hard time.' Thank you a thousand times,' said she; 'the God of the widow and the fatherless will reward you.' ' I do n't take any great credit to myself for my generosity,' replied Smith; 'I ve been to work for Delia Edwards, and I have charged her enough to make it up. She's rich, and can -pay me a good price, as well as spend her money for some-: thing else. When I work for poor folks, I make it as easy for them as I can; when I work for folks that are in mode- rate circumstances, I am moderate in my charges; but when I work for irich people, I do n't hesitate to make a handsome profit, that will pay for my losses in other ways. What 's their money given them for, if it is n't to help poor people!" So, he's going to take my money, whether I will or not, to give to the poor, and receive their blessings!' said Delia; "he wont get my blessing, nor any more of my work, he may be pretty sure of that! I thought when I paid his bill, and those of the other workmen, that they were made out'in an exorbitant manner. Now I understand it; how provoking!" "You wont get rid of this trouble by not employing Smith," said her father. "You must stop employing anyboldy, if you expect to escape this vexation; it is a custom among me- chanics, merchants, lawyers, and doctors to do so, when they can, and may as well be submitted to with a good grace as to chafe about it." "If a rich man can't get any more than a poor person can get with half the money, where's the comfort of being rich?" said Delia. Aunt Dorothy looked up archly, and replied, " in the com- fort they thus have of helping the poor to live." "But they get no credit for it," said Delia; " why do n't they charge uniformly, and let the rich give to the poor them- selves?"   ,/??      A PEEP BEHND THE CURTAIN.      63 ," Because a great many of them would not do it," said her Aunt. "I think they would much prefer doing it, to having it ex- torted from them in this way." "Yes, but you see the world is too wise for them. They are obliged to do it, in this way; and in the other, they could get rid of it." "How provoking, that a rich person must be ruled in that way!" said Delia. "That's the dark side of the picture," said Aunt Dorothy. Poor people can seldom make alterations, and the favor that is shown to them is one of the bright spots in their life, and the rich do n't feel it enough to hurt them." ("But only think how unjust it is! property is thus reduced to half its real value; for money is worth no more than it will bring," said Delia. , That's a thing that must be submitted to, because you can't help it; and, like all the evils under the government of God, it results in good to the greater portion of'mankind, who are among the poor; and this should comfort you under this vexation. There is another thing, too, that I want you to re- member: though the poor have the advantage over you there, you have the advantage over them, in many other respects. Comforts and troubles are pretty equally divided, after all. The rich, because they have money, can buy sometimes at great discount; and they can, and often do, take advantage of the necessities of the poor; and it would be a pity if the poor had not some compensation." "But it is more than counterbalanced," said Delia; "for besides having so much taken from us, whether we will or not, we are considered mean if we do n't of our own free will, : give away nearly all that is left! I could have given away half I had, if I had paid attention to all the calls I have   "      CI'rY AND COUNTRY LIF E. received since I began to fix this house. There's the door-bell now! I wonder who is coming with a pitiful story!" Helen went to the door. "Esq. North would like to see Miss Edwards," said she, as she returned. "Yes," replied Delia, Miss Edwards would like to see Esq. North." "Now be cautious, Delia, and don't say anything to pro- voke him," said her father; " for he can be calm and cool, and yet revengeful."-- "Don't fear it; since I've got my head into the lion's mouth, I sha'n't be particularly anxious to make him bite it off. I shall be so gracious, he will fancy I've been to Blar- ney Rock this morning." After a short interval, Esq. North went out, got into his carriage, and drove off, and Delia reentered the back sitting- room, with a sobriety and thoughtfulness which was not easily interpreted by the waiting and anxious group. "Well, what did he say?" said Mrs. Edwards, after a silence of a few seconds, in which she waited for Delia to communicate any information she chose. "I've got through with him," replied Delia laconically. -"Through!" how? I hope you haven't offended him, and taken the business out of his hands!" "I have taken it out of his hands, and I do n't think he'll have any more of my business at present," replied Delia. "Do explain yourself," said Mrs. Edwards. "I 've got my money," replied Delia. "O, you have!" they all exclaimed at once. "How much is it?" it Only a hundred thousand." "You have n't, though! have you?" exclaimed Mr. Edwards, with evident delight; " that's better than I ever expected."   ,):7'  -A PEEP BEHND THE CURTAIN.           65 "It isn't as much as I expected," said Delia; " the letter represented Mr. Storer as worth nearly half a mil- lion." "Consider yourself well off, well off, if you have got off so," said her-father.   ,' "Have you that left, after paying all expenses, and besides what you have had?" said Mrs. Edwards. "Yes, I hope so." "Well, then, I hope you are satisfied!" said Mr. Edwards. "I am satisfied, if the representations in the letter were true, that somebody has got the lion's share." "You are not certain that it was Esq. North," said her father; " but what excuses did he make?" "He said there were a great many debts and expenses, etc.; and his bill, I think, is exorbitant." "I suppose he has only been doing just as everybody else does, charging you to make up what he may lose on others," said Helen; "but I thinl I should look a little pleasanter,if I had a hundred thousand dollars!" . "Perhaps you would n't, if you thought you ought to have two, and some one had defrauded you of half. That alters the case considerably." "Have you got it all with you?" said Mrs. Edwards. "Yes, I've got some of it in money, but most of it in checks upon the Banks where it is deposited. He wanted me to let him invest it for me; but I thought I 'd take it while there was any left, and do that business myself." "You was very foolish there; you can't do it yourself. Somebody must do that for you that understands business, and you might as well let him do it as somebody who may do worse by you," said her father. "O dear! I used to take care of myself when I was poor; I was n't dependent upon others to do my business, and I had Ac^    6o   "G      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. no fears that they would ruin me in doing it. But I see it may be as trying to be dependent upon others, as to be de- pendent upon one's labor; I thought if I was rich I should be independent of everybody!" ' That's true, but you have n't begun to realize it yet, as you may when you are older- and have had more experience," said Aunt Dorothy. "I shall feel a little scarey, I confess, to-night, with so much money in the house," said Mr. Edwards, getting up and putting on his hat. "I guess I'll go down to Shephard's and see if I can't get a dog." "But father, I haven't much money, and the checks are good for nothing until I 've endorsed- them; so the money's safe enough." "-But folks may hear that your money has come, and think they can get at it, or try. I shall sleep better if I have a dog." "What are you laughing at, Helen," said Delia. -"At my thoughts." ' A penny for them!" "I do n't sell them as cheap as that to you; a great many people have had them gratis, and now I 'm going to charge you enough to make it up." "Then I'm bankrupt; for wisdom is above all price. I can't pay for half your wise sayings, so you will have to keep this thought, or let it go cheap, on the ground that I'm poor, and belong to the favored class," said Delia. "Your. compliment pays, amply, for all past and present -debts. Since you are pleased to call my nonsense wisdom, you shall have it free from all further expense. I was think- ing what an elevating process it is to have a hundred thou- sand dollars brought into the house!-it brings intelligent -beings, who -have always lived fearless, and taken care of   'i X. A PEEP BEHND THE CURTAIN.            67 themselves, down to the necessity of depending upon a dog to take care of them I " said Helen. "We lived fearless before, because we knew nobody wanted us; it is the money, now, that is in danger, and not us; and according to your and Aunt Dorothy's opinions, money is more fit for dogs than men to keep," replied Delia. , Yes, but our having the money endangers our persons; so we are dependent upon the dog, as well as the money." "O, you are disposed to laugh at me now; because I have so much trouble at the commencement; but have you forgot- ten the old proverb, A bad beginning makes a good ending?' Everything is low before it rises. The butterfly was a worm at first. When I come out of my chrysalis state and begin to revel in gay colors, among the flowers, or soar to the clouds, your satire will be changed to admiration," said Delia. "Only let me get my money invested." The ringing of the door-bell now interrupted the discussion. "It is cousin James Vinton, or some of his family," said Helen, who sat by the window, "I know by his four-wheeled chaise and white horse ;" perhaps he would like to take some of your money; he is doing an extensive business, and busi- ness-men almost always want money." "For pity's sake do n't say anything to him about it," said Mrs. Edwards, "if you want your money safely invested. I 'm sorry he has happened to come here just at this time. Be sure you do n't let him know that you have any money to part with." While Aunt Dorothy is ushering into the newly-furnished sitting-room a tall, fine-looking man, whose noble forehead, pleasant black eye, and cheerful face are- -indicative of the agreeable spirit that reigns within, and the rest of the family are hastening to welcome him, the reader shall be mado more particularly acquainted with Mr. James Vinton.  68       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. Mr. Vinton was the son of Mrs. Edwards's eldest sister.  He was an untiringly-industrious and enterprising man, - :; keenly alive to the wants of others, and with a heart twice as large as his purse. He was, except in money-making, a man ?; of more than ordinary shrewdness and intelligence. His thoughts flowed freely-in conversation, in words which would A?t have done credit to a scholar; and his ready wit, vivacity, warm heart, and interest in everybody, made him always an agreeable companion. But in accumulating property, he lacked tact. He either trusted those who ought never to : have been trusted, or he had failed in some other way to discover the secret of money-making. If any one failed, he almost always had a ticket in that lottery. He had failed several times himself, and some of his acquaintance were so uncharitable as to say he certainly would as many times more, if he should be so fortunate as to have the opportunity. He had no small ideas upon any subject, consequently his business was extensive, and his failures heavy. In short, he : seemed to be too good a man to do business in this wicked world, unless he acted as clerk under some one, who had tnore coolness and deliberation, more practical knowledge of human nature, more suspicious disposition, more unfeeling heart, united to some other qualities of less questionable morality than those last mentioned. To both Mr. and Mrs. Vinton, Delia and all Mr. Edwards's family were much    ; ittached. They had never suffered anything from Mr. Vinton's failures, for they had never had anything to venture, : nd his presence was always a joyful addition to their family ; ;ircle.               -    -     ' i "You've been making great changes here, Cousin, and I hink for the better," said Mr. Vinton, after the usual saluta-  ions had passed on each side. "What a comfortable thing :: t is to have a friend leave us a good handsome legacy!"   A PEEP BEHND THE CURTALN.      69 And he sank down upon one of her stuffed rocking-chairs, as though it was a very pleasant thing to enjoy the good things of others. ' It is convenient, sometimes," said Deliam , Yes"/' replied Mr. Vinton, " and I should think by appear- ances, that reports might be, at least, half true." "I do n't know particularly to what reports you refer," replied Delia. "But you live among a rare people, if you can place any reliance upon rumor." "What! have you become as hasty as the Psalmist, and ready to pronounce all men liars?" said Mr. Vinton. "I think if he had lived in these days, he need not have been in haste, but might have said it upon mature delibera- tion," replied Delia. "- You think in that case he would have made some honor- able exceptions, I suppose?" ,( He did except the ladies,"' said Delia, playfully. -That was because he was in haste," said Mri Vinton, laughing. "Well, I do n't know as it's best to dispute you; but what is the report?" "That Mr. Storer left you a million." "The Psalmist must have had these folks in view when he paid mankind this compliment,"' said Delia, considerably amused at the report. "But he has left you a handsome property, as this room testifies," said Mr. Vinton, in an inquiring tone. "He did remember me in his will, but the story of the million is an exaggeration. He did not leave me half, or even a quarter; I wish he had." "I do n't know as you swould like to be questioned about it; you can tell me what you please; but I've always felt an    70       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. interest in you, and really wanted to know the truth, and what you probably would realize from Storer's estate."  Delia hesitated, and at length replied she " would tell him ; as much as she would any one beside her parents, but she  r had never mentioned the precise sum to any one out of the t : family."  "O! well, it is of no consequence; everything shows me " it is a handsome sum, and that is all I want to know. I am : glad of it, for your sake, and I hope and believe you will do ? good with your money. There is one question I should like : to ask; have you received your legacy?  "Yes:'                  -%^ 'You have! well, I'm glad to hear it. Have you in- vested it all?"  "Some of it is invested in this room," said Delia, wishing to evade this question. Mr. Vinton said no more for the present, but during the afternoon, he drew Delia aside, as they were all walking in the garden, and disclosed the object of his visit: "Cousin," said he, "I believe you did n't say you had invested all your money?"?       " "No, I did not say that I had," said Delia, now beginning to tremble lest she should have an application for money. i- "Well, you have not?" said he, directly.   o     %' "No, not all of it," said Delia, hesitating. A 'I'm   glad to hear it, for now you can do me a great i favor."   "What is it?"  "I want to hire some money. I have just invented a new  machine, which will be of immense importance in -my busi-  ' ness, and upon which I shall realize a handsome profit. But -S unfortunately at this time,' I have met with some heavy :   A P EEP BEHND THE CURTAIN.     71 losses, which cripple me. I have some large notes to meet by Wednesday, or my paper must be protested. If I can get enough to meet them, and a little to go on with my patent machine, I shall soon be a prosperous man. I'can, dispose of my manufactures at good advantage, if I can only have time to turn round, but if not, my family will be beg- gared." "How much do you want?" said Delia, sadly. "Five thousand dollars," replied Mr. Vinton. Delia said nothing, but diligently pulled a rose to pieces, while Mr. Vinton whittled away upon a small lilac branch. "Wo is me," thought Delia. "If I let you have this money, I shall certainly lose it; and if I do n't, you will be forever offended with me, and so will your wife, and the vision of your ruined family will haunt me continually. Can't you get it somewhere else?" said Delia, after a long ai-l awkward pause--"of some one of your business ac- quaintance, who know more about letting money than I?" "I can't,-- money is very tight, just now. You are my last resort. I am sure if I had the money by me: and you wanted the same favor, I would accommodate you, if you had not half at stake that I have; and I believe I have proved myself your friend, though not exactly in that way." Delia remembered that it was so. In various ways he had assisted her when she was poorer. He had many times sold her an article at cost, and spent much valuable time in assisting her, or her friends, when they wished for any advice or help in their shopping. And Delia walked nervously along to the strawherry bed, and began to pick out a few weeds. "I'll give you security, if you insist upon it," said Mr. Vinton, earnestly. "I suppose I ought to have it; what kind of security do you offer?" said Delia, appearing somewhat relieved. ?h   72       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.          ;1 { I'll mortgage a part of my stock in trade." "It is getting rather cloudy," said Delia, " we had better return to the house." As they entered, Delia beckoned her mother aside, and are communicated James's request. "I hope you did not promise it to him" said Mrs. Ed- wards, evidently much agitated. "No, but he says he shall be beggared, if I do not." "And so will you, if you let your money to such persons as he." "But he says he will secure me from loss, by mortgaging a part of his stock in trade," said Delia, as though she would plead for him. "Secure you from loss! What good will his stock do you? In case of his failure, and he certainly will fail, you will have to hire other people to sell it for you. They know you can- not look over them, and you will be at their mercy. Depend upon it, what he cannot sell to advantage for himself, you cannot sell with safety by others. A female like you, who cannot attend to your business in person, but has to hire it all done, should invest it in the most substantial manner, and have nothing to do but to receive the interest, or take the dividends. You must tell him so. Do n't let him have it, by any means." "But it will grieve him so, I cannot." "I know he will feel badly, and I am sorry; but do you want to lose your property for the sake of making him feel better?" "No; but he has been so kind to us, it seems very hard to refuse him. Say it for me, mother; he will look so dejected, I cannot bear it." "You must learn to act for yourself, and not let it appear that you are overruled by others."   A PEEP BEHND THE CURTAIN.      73 Mr. Vinton looked hurt, - the picture of despair,- as he received his refusal. He did not seem like the same man that he was when he entered. It was in vain that Mrs. Ed- wards invited him to stay to tea. Her tempting table had no charms for him, and like a heart-broken man, with droop- ing spirits and downcast head, he entered his carriage, and drove away. It was late when Mr. Vinton reached his home. All had retired save lis wife, who was at the window, anxiously watching his arrival. His slow and heavy step, and sad countenance, told plainly the failure of his mission. "Couldn't she let you have it?" said his wife, as he entered. Mr. Vinton shook his head. "What was the matter? Had n't she received her money? or had she invested it all?" "She had it, but was afraid to trust me," said Mr. Vinton, in a tone of bitterness; and he leaned against the mantle- piece, as though he had not strength to support himself. "Had it, and was afraid to trust you!" repeated his wife. 'Is that true of Delia Edwards! Well, let her money perish with her; we can live without it." "Wife?" said Mr. Vinton, starting up, " do n't speak so. She thinks I am not capable of doing business, I suppose; and if she does, she ought not to trust me with so much money. She treated me kindly in other respects; said she had been intending to make us a present, and offered to give me a hundred dollars, but said she would rather not invest so large a sum upon such security."  "I hope you did not take it," said his wife, indignantly. "No, I told her Idid not come to ask for charity. I was willing to labor, and I only asked to have the means, and if I could not raise the five thousand, I must fail. That  7   74       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.           , the one hundred dollars would not benefit my family--it would all have to go to my creditors, and be but a few cents divided among them." t I am glad you did not take it. I would sooner starve than be dependent upon her! To think of her insulting you in that way- refusing to lend you money because she could not trust you, and then offering to give you something, as though we would be dependent upon her charity! I suppose they 've fixed up there, now, and do n't care about retaining their old friends!" "Yes," said Mr. Vinton, "they've altered and newly furnished the house, so that you would not know it; it looks splendidly, and I suppose Delia is very happy." i"We never will hinder her enjoying it," said Mrs. Vinton, "and little Delia's name shall be altered immediately." "Dear little things!" said Mr. Vinton, as he entered the room where his rosychildren were sleeping. "You sleep soundly, and know not care or sorrow; would God it might always be so! But alas! you will wake to toil and poverty." i"The darkest day, live till to-morrow, will have passed away; so cheer up, it is almost morning; see! it'lacks only five minutes of twelve," said Mrs. Vinton, trying to look cheerful. "The darkest day has not come yet, Hatty," said Mr. Vinton, mournfully. I must fail, and then it will be darkness that will be felt. You and the children will be beggared, and my creditors defrauded; and God knows I would do anything to pay my honest debts!" "4 Well, somebody will let you have the money, I feel con- fident, so do n't look so dejected," said Mrs. Vinton, soothingly. "Delia Edwards is n't everybody, if she is rich and unfeel- ing!" Wednesday came, and with it brought no relief. Mr    A PEEP BEHND THE CURTAIN.      75 Vinton failed, and he and his-family, believing it was owing to the unkindness and hard-heartedness of Delia, never forgave her, but for the remainder of their lives, lived as strangers to the Edwards family. "4 How unfortunate it was, that I had the money by me," said Delia, mournfully, as Mr. Vinton left Mr. Edwards's, after being denied the loan of the five thousand dollars. "He never will forgive me, and I do n't blame him; neither can I blame myself; but it does seem hard to lose such good friends!" and Delia sat down upon a rich ottoman and burst into tears. ," Come, cheer up, and eat some supper," said Mrs. Ed- wards; " we are all sorry for him, but crying wont do any good. If you had let him have the money, he would have been in as bad a case again before long. It would n't have been any essential relief to him, and you would have lost your money for nothing." "But then I should not have converted a whole family of dear friends into enemies. I used to hear that wealth made many friends, but the reverse of it has been true in my case." "It has given you friends," said her mother, " of whom you have reason to be proud. In how many families are you welcome, where you never thought of visiting before! There are the North's, the Richmond's, and Douglas's, and who is there that is worth naming, that does not treat you with attention?" "I know it, and I feel proud of them, as you say; but they are ceremonious acquaintances, and -I feel upon my guard all the time I am with them, lest I should do some- thing to show that I have not always been in such company.   CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.  I presume I shall love them, when I know them intimate but they must be rare people to make amends for those i: have losf," and Delia mentally included other friends than the Vinton's, though Mrs. Edwards knew it not. "You are a little silly girl!" said her mother. "When you get older, you will understand there are other worthy people beside the Vinton's. You have done right, and if they are such fools as to be forever offended with you, let them go! they are not worth crying for." "I've learnt one lesson by this," said Delia, rising ener- getically, as though she had some fixed purpose in her mind. "I 'll put this business of investing into somebody's hands, who shall act as a screen for me, immediately, before I have a chance to lose any more friends. I had rather pay for it handsomely, than to run another such risk. But whom shall I get, that will be true to my interests?" "Esquire North knows more about such business, and can better advise you, than any man in the place," said Mr. Ed- wards. "He will charge you pretty weld no doubt, but after all, I do n't know but he is as honest as any one you can get, who knows as much as he does."  "Well, let it be him then!" said Delia, fetching a long breath, as though she was making a great effort to get rid of a heavy load. I wish I had never taken it out of his hands, but I hope he will do well for me, and not lead me to trust such men as James Vinton." "Of course he will be guided by your wishes." "Yes, but I do n't know what it will be for my best good to wish him to do," and Delia looked exceedingly per- plexed. "All you will have to do, will be to decide according to his representation, after he has had time to look into the matter," said her father, "and then commit the case to the    Lord. 'Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it. Except the Lord keep the city, the watchmen waketh but in vain. It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrow: so he giveth his beloved sleep.' We are dependent upon the Lord, whether we are poor or rich." Thus ended the "happy day," which Delia had so long anticipated. Anxiety lest her money should not be safely invested, and visions of Mr. Vinton's distressed family, haunted her wakeful hours, and when at last she sunk to sleep, were mingled with her disturbed slumbers. 7*    C HAPTE    VI., CLOUDS IN ELDORADO.  "Plagues that haunt the rich man's door, Imbittering all his stat%."  "COME, it is time for as rich a lady as you to get up,  said Helen, rousing Delia late the next morning. "We've all -eaten breakfast, and mother says you are getting into bad ; habits." "What time is it,' said Delia, throwing out her arms and  yawning sadly.  "s Two hours later thlan you were ever in bed before."  "It is!" said Delia, astonished. "It seems to me that I've just got to sleep!  ' You have had all the night before you, and that used to  be sufficient for you, when you was as poor as I." "I was thinking so much about Cousin James, and felt so badly that I had to refuse him the money when he knew I   ; had it, that I could not sleep." "O, that's one of your money-troubles," said Helen play- fully, and there's where I have the advantage over you. Nobody was ever offended with me because I would not lend five thousand dollars! I never lost a wink of sleep on that j account, and am never liktely to. ' The sleep of, a laboring ad man is sweet, whether he eat little or much; but the abun- dance of the rich will not sufer him to sleep.'"  "You are disposed to laugh at me now," said Delia, "be-  cause I have so much trouble at first. But it will be better ! times after I get it invested." "It's a curious way to laugh at a person, to quote Scrip- *   "LOUDS IN ELDORADO.       79  .  ture to them," said Helen; "you don't see matters very clearly this morning. You had better get up, and perhaps you will understand things better." "I see clearly enough now, to know that the trouble was not in being rich, but in not having the money in the right  - place," said Delia, rather pettishy. At this moment, Mrs. Edwards's voice was heard calling Helen; and Delia was left alone, to revolve the subject in her mind. "I'll put some of my money in the right place to make and keep friends, to-day," said she, rising and com- mencing the dressing-process. "I 'll begin to do something for the benefit of my family, and in that I shall find solid pleasure. It is in blessing others that we are truly blessed." Comforted by this reflection, she left her chamber and sat down to the breakfast-table, which had been so long standing for her, with a light heart,-- her whole mind absorbed in planning and perfecting her new scheme before it should be developed. "The neighbors have heard, somehow or other, that you have received your legacy, and Mr. Doane has been in here, to give you some advice about investing it," said Mrs. Ed- wards, handing her a cup of coffee. "How did he know I wanted any?" "Perhaps he thought you would be as glad of his advice, as he would of your money!" "What did he propose to have me do with it?" "He says they've been trying to get a new Bank here; and he thinks it will be a good plan for you to invest your money in that stock, - it would be a benefit and credit to the town, to have a Bank here." "I've never liked the idea of investing money in Banks, since the old United States failed and ruined so many," said Mr. Edwards; "-real estate is the best investment." !   80       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.  * "It may be for a man," replied Mr3s. Edwards, "but Delia can't take care of it, and you have as much as you can at- tend to."                         X "Let her get a husband to take care of it for her," said ,  Timothy just as he left the room. "To spend it, more likely," said Helen. ; I 'll tell .you what I am going to do," said Delia, as she seated herself in the little back sitting-room by the window, and took from a small box of mother-of-pearl a piece of rich lace, and began to trim a wrought collar. "Well, what are you going to do?" said her Mother. You have begun the  X day so late, you will have to tell what you are going to do,  instead of what you have done, I am afraid." "I am not going to have any more straw brought into the house; you have enough to do without it, and Ill make up the deficiency. I want to live differently now, and I'll sup- i port the family."  "Do you know what it will cost you to support us all  ii without work?" said her Mother. .  "I do n't mean to do that, exactly; I mean to take care of 5 X you and Father, and put the rest of the family in a way of supporting themselves in a more genteel manner. I should advise Helen to go to school and fit herself to take charge of some select school, or to become teacherin some Academy. If you will go, Helen, and get a thorough education, I will ! : pay your board, tuition, find your books and stationery, and clothe you handsomely, for three years. You may attend to music, and drawing, and languages, and select your own  X school." -  "I shall like the going to school, and the new dresses, much," said Helen; but teaching a select school, after I come out, looks rather formidable."'  Aunt Dorothy," continued Delia, "I do n't want you to go   CLOUDS IN ELDORADO.        81 out sewing, any more ; I 'll payou all you can earn, and you [ may stay at home and enjoy yourself." "6 I thank you," said Aunt Dorothy-; "I like to work, and wish to be independent as long as I live. But it shall be no disgrace to you, that I continue to earn my living in this way,! for I will let people know of your generous offer." Timothy and George were busy at work in the garden, which was receiving its share of improvements. Delia tap- ped upon the window and beckoned to them to come to her; Timothy, with an air of drollery, which was characteristic of him, took off his broad-brimmed straw hat, and bowed almost to the ground. "Stop your obeisance and show your obedience," said De- lia, opening the window and summoning them in. "Come," said she, "I want to tell you both something, to your advan- tage." The boys were in, in a moment. "If I had known that, I would have come before I was asked," said Timothy, bowing again, in full glee, at the door. "Well, sit down," said Delia, laughing. "Timothy, I think you will make a good merchant; and on condition that you will apprentice yourself to some man who thoroughly under- stands his business, till you are master of it, I will let you have two thousand dollars, free from interest, for eleven years, which will be about the same as giving yo tthat sum, because it would double in that time. At the end of the eleven years, you can return the principal, or pay interest upon it at the usual rate, afterwards, as long as you have it." "Thank you," said Timothy, slowly and thoughtfully. "George," continued Delia, "I'1 give you one thousand outright, if you wish to get an education. }You shall have the money now, so that it may be put out at interest, and be in- creasing all the time you are pursuing your studies; I mean   82       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.          ' what you do n't use as you go along. This will make you about equal to Timothy, because you will have the use of the money and the principal too. You can begin small, board at home at first, and partly fit for college with our minister, :d Mr. Pratt. If you manage in this way, and are economical, I think the one thousand dollars, with its increase, and what you can earn in vacations by keeping school, will nearly car-  ry you through. If you wish for any more funds, I will lend them to you at the usual rate. I could give you the whole -sum required, without leaving you to make any exertions, but it would not be the best thing for you. I have often heard -  that many of the greatest men are those who make the great- g est sacrifices to obtain their education. College is a place full of temptations, and I think it might injure you more than it  would benefit you, to give you any more." "I wonder what is going to preserve you," said George, if you are afraid I can't bear more than one thousand" , "If I am going to be injured, there's more need of my tak-  ing care of you ; it isn't best to have but one in the family i spoiled," said Delia, smiling good-naturedly.       g "Thank you," said George; I 'll try and keep myself in a good state of preservation." Delia felt she was making a great pecuniary sacrifice for the good of the family, and she felt such self-complacency at her generosity, that it seemed impossible to her, that those benefited, should not feel and think so too. Though the man- ner in which they uttered their thanks was not as hearty and enthusiastic as she expected, and somewhat chilled her warm feelings, she excused them by supposing theyfelt more grati- tude than they knew how to express. With rather an uncom- fortable feeling, occasioned by trying to repress all thoughts ' of what she consdered a groundless jealousy, she went to her room and prepared herself for a walk. George and Timothy   CLOUDS IN ELDORADO.        83 reentered the garden, and soon after saw Delia leave the house. Delia had not proceeded far, before she recollected that she had left something of importance, and returned for it. She entered just as George, in a loud tone, was expressing his feelings. Delia heard his voice in the entry, and stopped, with Eve's curiosity, to ascertain the cause of so much interest, and distinctly overheard the following conversation: - "I' ve heard that it makes folks tight to become rich, but I never so fully believed it as now," said George. "Delia used to be very generous once, but now she's grown as close and calculating as an old miser. I should think she'd had ten years put on to her shoulders, and every one of those years had been engaged in money-making!" "I should think she had done pretty well by you," said Mrs. Edwards. "Humph!" said George contemptuously, "I don't think it's any great for her! She's worth a hundred thousand dol- lars, and gives me about ha/f what I ought to have; and then I've got to work my passage the rest of the way. I should think a girl as rich as she, would do the handsome thing, and let me go through like other folks." "But she's got the rest to do for," said his mother. "Yes! but what does she do? Just nothing at all, for her! Lets Timothy use two thousand dollars a little while, and then return it! But her treatment of Helen is worse than all the rest. Helen, to be sure, is going to have a fine time being educated; but then she's got to work for her living after. she gets through, or go without; while Delia will be enjoying herself doing nothing. Where there are only two sisters,: and one is so rich, I should think she ought support her poorer sister as handsomely as herself." "-But you forget she 's going to support her parents," said Mrs. Edwards.   84       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.  "Well, at present that's just nothing for her! You keep house for her, and father takes care of the place, as he's always done. She only gives you what you used to earn sewing straw, and father what he earned by going out to  work after he had done all that was necessary at home., Now she 'll want more done here, and she'll pay you for it by tak- ing care of you! that's mighty benevolent!"  "Judge-Edwards-that-is-to-be!" said Timothy, bowing with mock-gravity (which drollery caused a simultaneous burst of 3 laughter from all present, and seemed to restore good humor), "I would advise you to study policy before you do Law; it's i  amazing useful in that profession, and would n't be out of place now! Mother has always taught us that to be thankful for what :I we 've got, is the way to get more ; and many 's the time she 's taken away what she's given us, because we were not satis. fied with it. Now I 've been served so too often to forget, and X I mean to be wise this time, and save what I've got, and get . as much more as I can. For my part, I think she's done pretty well,-not so well as I wanted her to, to be sure,  I but perhaps better than I should have done, if I had been in i : her place. I think she's given away a good deal, first and last." S A "We are to suppose you are very sincere, after your lee- ture on policy," said George.               e "Well, I am."     ' "But what's the harm of our expressing our feelings here!" said Helen; " we've all thanked her and treated her well, and who would be so mean as to tell her what we say now?" "No one, that I know of," said Timothy; but the wise man has said, 'Curse not the rich; no, not in thy bed-cham- ber, lest a bird of the air tell of thee.' I think likely it means that such feelings are very apt to get to them in some way,-- perhaps if we feel so, we shall tell of it ourselves, by expressing the same in our actions."   CLOUDS IN ELDORADO.       85 "I do n't intend saying anything against her, or expressing' any ingratitude," continued Helen; "but as you say, I'm glad for what she's given me, and I can add, I do n't think it would have hurt her to have given me more." Delia waited till she had heard Helen's remark, and a word or two in her own defence from Aunt Dorothy, then hurried up stairs, and locking the door, sat down by an open window, where the gentle breeze fanned her burning brow, while she began to meditate, with no slight indignation, upon what she had heard. She had not been long in this situa- tion, before she heard Aunt Dorothy's gentle step, and soon her hand was upon the latch. Finding the door fastened, she said softly: "Delia, are you here?" Delia rose and opened the door. It did not require much penetration to perceive by Delia's countenance, that some- thing agitated her, and the cause was easily divined. "How long have you been here," said her Aunt, sur- prised; "I thought you had gone out to walk!" "Yes, and I suppose some others thought so, too! but I returned soon after I went out, because I left something, and I was so much entertained that I thought I wouldn't go out again."  Aunt Dorothy stood silent for some moments, as though she knew not what to reply. At length she said, "I never thought of your being in the house; I wanted a dress, that hangs in this closet, but I am sorry I interrupted you; you look disturbed." "And haven't I heard enough to disturb any one, since I came in," said Delia, angrily. 4"I don't know what you have heard, because I don't know how long you've been in." "I have heard all," said Delia, in a tone of a person deeply abused, and who fully appreciated her wrongs. 8   86       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "My dear," said the good old lady, sitting down beside  her, "I am sorry they should have said those things, and especially that you should have heard them." "If they are going to say such things, I am sure I want to know it," said Delia, the tears, which had been held back by revengeful feelings, now flowing at the sound of sympathy. "No, Delia; it is not best for us to know how others feel towards us. We know that the world is ungrateful--that we are ungrateful to God and one another. This we know as a general truth; but -in individual cases it is best to be ignorant, where we cannot make it any better. You might have enjoyed the consciousness of having done well by them, if you had not overheard these cruel remarks."      t 4' Yes! enjoyed myself by supposing I had friends, when I had not! No; I'm glad I've found them out in season; I shall know, now, how to treat them." "Well, if you know how to treat them, you've settled a  pretty important question. How is it; do you tell?" "!I'm going to take away what I've given them," said  i Delia, haughtily, straightening herself; and let them earn : their money themselves; and then see if it is n't worth some- thing!"  Aunt Dorothy looked thoughtful, but said nothing. "It's what they richly deserve," continued Delia, looking at her Aunt to obtain some assent to her proposal. "It may be what they deserve; I sha'n't attempt to defend i them," the old lady at length replied; " and if you are sure of two things, perhaps you had better do so." , "What are they?" said Delia, eagerly. "The first is, that you are not as ungrateful to God for the blessings he gives you, as your brothers and sister are : to you, for the good things that you give them; because God has only given us liberty to pray for forgiveness, as we forgive others."  .   CLOUDS IN ELDORADO.        87 "I should think that was enough to stop me," said Delia, ( without hunting up any other objection; but what is the next reason; let's hear." "The next is, are you sure you would not injure yourself in the eyes of the world more, by leaving them to take care of themselves, than you would injure them? It is as really for your interest, that your friends should be raised, as it is for theirs." "And so I've got to forgive them, whether they are sorry or not! that's more than I can do!" I ," You can do just as you like-" ( And take the consequences, I suppose. Well, that is hard! I do think I am one of the most tried and abused creatures- upon the earth," said Delia, bursting into tears afresh, and hiding her face in her handkerchief. "Delia!" said her Aunt, rather sternly; "does that re- mark look like gratitude to your HeaYenly Father? What if He should show you your ingratitude, by bringing you into a worse condition!" "I do n't complain of God," said-Delia; but just think how I've been treated! I've had the ' horse-leech and all her daughters after me, ever since it was known that Mr. Storer had willed his property to me." "All! there are only two of them," said the old lady, smiling. "There are more than that now; the family has wonder- fully increased since Solomon's time," said Delia, mournfully. I should n't think. by people's actions, that anybody else in town had any money but me! There are all our poor rela- tions; they come to me, and expect to be helped, as a matter of course; and I do help them; but who thanks me for it! They act as though it was my duty; and when I 've done it, instead of being rateful, they wonder I don't do more.   88       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. People think I can give, give, and they can take, take; and because I want a little slice for myself, they'll abuse me, after all I have. done for them! I did think my owi family would have been more considerate. What I've heard this  H afternoon, is the unkindest cut of all! -  "I 1 did n't know as you had had any trouble from other sources."    -                      "Well, just listen and see if I have n't! In the first place, there was Susan Jennings's mother's fourth cousin. She was  sick all last winter, with the rheumatism; the family are poor, the children are small, and a person must have a heart of stone, not to give something there. I pitied them, and went to see them this spring, without asking, and gave them, ,as I thought, liberally; and what was the consequence? they began to depend upon me for everything. So I thought I 'd stay away, and send them what I thought they needed. I sent them  a load of potatoes, some meal, some good thick shoes for the children--good enough for them to wear to ' meeting- such as I used to wear, and some calico for some dresses. I asked James Heath how   they appeared. HHe said the old woman came to the window, and looked' at the load. ' Potatoes! Humph; I should think she'd send poor folks some of the dainties she's cly'de with herself every I day! I  s'pose she thinks these are good enough for us!. ' - The children took out the calico, and appeared pleased. 'What homely stuff!' said she, looking scornfully; 'so she x expects you to wear that to meeting, and she's going to be rigged up in great style! I'd have her remember we are relations, if she does send us such mean things!' Then there was Cousin Jane Emmerson had a child with club feet, l and wanted to have them straightened. Of course I must   give something there, and I wanted to; but she looked as though I ought to have given the whole sum required. j'I   CLOUDS IN ELDORADO.        89 do n't complain of giving, but I do n't like to have people take what I give them as though I was -payihg a debt! Everybody that loes a cow, or a pig, comes right to me with their doleful story, expecting that I will go to my money bag, and take out enough to replace it; and the fools seem to think there will be just as much left there, after I have done it, as before! Then I have had a call from the solici- tors of more societies than there were nations expelled from the land of Canaan; and as though that was not enough, Esquire North said to me one day: ' Miss Edwards, I hope you will do something for your native town; we are in want of a clock, and I think it would be a very pretty And becom- ing present for you to give. Every time the bell rings the hour, it will speak the praises of our benefactress. It will be an important benefit to this people, and reflect great honor upon yourself, as well as give you the consciousness of having done a good act.' I thought he understood blarney pretty well, and I did not feel inclined to be influenced in that way if I concluded to give it at all. So I told him I was afraid it would hardly be in accordance with Scripture, to give; such a high-sounding present. It would seem too much like sounding a 'trumpet before me. He replied, he did not see anything in the Bible against giving the town a clock--that I might have the motive as pure as I pleased. About two hours after, our good minister, Mr. Pratt, called. The dear old man smiled very kindly, and said, just as he was going out: ' Miss Edwards, we are sadly in want of a comnmunion service; our old one is very shabby, and I have been think- ing, since I heard that you had a service of plate given you for yourself, and a handsome property left you, that a dona- tion of one from you to- our .church, would be a becoming thank-offering, not only for the temporal mercies that you have received, but for the spiritual benefits that you trust 8*   90       ITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. God has bestowed upon you.' I thought so, too; the idea pleased me, and I gave him encouragement that he might  expect one. While I was thinking it over, and calculating i the probable expense,--for you know it would n't do for me to i give anything but an elegant one,--that disagreeable old  Mrs. Pinkney called. She told me what a pleasant day it  was, just as though I did'nt know it before. Then she in-  quired after my health, as particularly as if she had been  my physician, and I had been sick of a dangerous disease.  I did not feel particularly pleased, for I thought there was  some reason behind for all this. Pretty soon it came out, in shape of a subscription paper. I fairly began to shiver when E I saw it, for I knew what a talker she was. I had been so annoyed with these papers, that I resolved when she first took it out, I would not give her a cent. But when I saw it was in behalf of Foreign Missions, I could not refuse, of course. So I took it, and subscribed five dollars, when I thought I could n't afford to give another cent, and handed it back to her folded. She had the impudence to open it, and appeared to read it with perfect astonishment. At last she  began: 'I presume  here is some mistake.' Why do you  : think so? said I. 'Because I can't think it possible that you S will give so little.' There is no mistake about it, Mrs. Pink-t ney, said I; there is all I think I can afford. I did not feel like explaining everything to her, but I told her I had a greatil nany calls, and that if money must be divided so many times, it .would leave small sums in each place. She then began to  erate-me for livin in  such a splendidly furnished house, md leaving the heathen to perish, just as though I could elp it! She called David, and Solomon, and Paul? and Peter, James, and all the prophets and Apostles, to her aid. I  poor Catholic, under the ban of the Pope, could n't have  elt worse than I did under such a heap of anathemas. I was   CLOUDS IN ELDORADO.        91 so angry, that if I had been convinced it was My duty to have given more, I would not. Her eye rested p1ticularly upon the new curtains and fixtures, as though in them lay my crowning guilt. 'How can you be so comfortable and happy,' said she, ' while so many are perishing for the bread i of life, which you can give them as well as not' She might as well have called me comfortable when sitting insulated upon an electrical stool, while every one is rushing up to take a shock from me. She seemed to take particular delight in poisoning all my comforts, by associating them with the wants of those I could not benefit. As the climax of her impudent eloquence, she charged me with trying to 'be carried to the skies on flowery beds of ease ' Flowery beds of nettles! more like, said I to myself, as she shut the door. I thought it was almost profane to quote that beautiful hymn in such a manner." Aunt Dorothy did not live in these days of systematic beneficence, yet she was, in her way, very benevolent, and ver,y systematic, and she was very glad of this opportunity of giving her niece some needed advice. "If you think you do right, there is no need of getting angry, because a person quotes Scripture to you," said the good old lady, as soon as Delia made a pause long enough for her to speak. "It was a very serious and important question that she asked you, and are you sure conscience did not trouble you, as well as Mrs. Pinkney? Does it look right to you, for a Christian to furnish a house as you have done, and give only five dollars towards spreading the gospel, which ought to be the main business of the disciples of Christ? Does it look like being a follower of Him, who, though he was rich, yet for our sakes became poor, that we through His poverty might be rich?'" "I should think, by your talk, Christians hadn't a right   92       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. to enjoy themselves at all!--that they ought to give away everything but what is absolutely necessary for their support, and that any indulgence of the taste was absolutely wicked. Now I do n't believe any such thing, and I do n't mean to! X It is the making of these good and beautiful things which sup- ports poor people. What would have ever become of us, if we had not made beautiful and costly bonnets, and found some- body to buy them? Now is it right to stop people when they are supporting themselves by honest industry, and give them S  what they need? or shall we encourage them by buying these  articles, thus pleasing ourselves and benefiting them at the same time?" "Of course you have a right to buy them, to a certain ex- tent. Your own gratification is a part of the general good, and you have a right to seek it where it does not interfere with the good of others," replied her Aunt.  "Well, so I  say. And if we buy these things, it will take money.  Now, how short-sighted and bigoted a per- son must be, to berate another for living in a beautifully- X furnished house, simply because they haven't benefited   I every body!" "Don't be too fast: because you have a right to do this  to some extent, it is no proof that you have a right to neglect  a  proper attention to other duties of more importance. We  may screen any quantity of selfishness under this cloak of I benefiting others by pleasing ourselves. The religion of Christ is self-denying. But spending a thousand for our own gratifi- cation in one thing, and giving five dollars for the salvation of I  the heathen, looks very disproportionate, and inconsistent' with the Christian character." "But I  have given so much to other causes, I had only that tef.  Indeed I thought I robbed myself, when I gave that,"said  Delia; ' you know I must do a great deal for my family."   CLOUDS IN ELDORADO.        93      1; "Yes, but you must remember your family are not objects of charity; and you have no right to take what you would give to the heathen, to raise them in the world. What you give your family, you ought to give them, but it is for your interest almost directly. It is, as it were, buying so much re- spectability for yourself." " Well, I have to give to the poor round here. You know it would hardly be right to send off money when I do nothing for those at home," " No, certainly it would not." " Well, I do n't see how I am going to do all you want me to, without giving up everything! and that would conflict with what you have just said about the duty of living hand- somely to some extent, for the benefit of others as well as my own gratification. I think you are getting your principles en- tangled in a knot that even you cannot untie without break- ing some of the threads." 'The true way to get out a knot, is to begin at the right end," said her Aunt, very calmly. Now you have been drawing it tighter and tighter, and getting dreadfully vexed, because you have been pulling the wrong string first. You began with the intention of serving yourself first, out of that which you hold as God's stewardess, and of giving God what you could spare after you was satisfied. People have troubled and vexed you, because they would interrupt you to attend to them. Those who came first, and were most clamorous, were served first and best, and, as might have been expected where there was no definite system about it, except to please yourself, there is only five dollars left for the most important cause in the world. You should have reversed the process, and set apart a portion for God first." " I should n't have given as much, in that case, as I have done now : I do n't dare reckon up what I have given," said    "      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. Delia, going to her drawer and taking out a red and gilt memorandum.            o   r "I would advise you to, by all means, and then you will have an intelligent view of your charities, in black and white;  and I'll venture to guess you'll find that with all your giving, to your family and everybody else, that you have not yet given  -one tenth of what God has given you this year.":  "No, I do n't think Ihave; I do n't intend to!" said Delia decidedly. , Why, Aunt, that would be 10,00O! I am wil- ling, perhaps, to give a tenth of the income, but not of the  ; antczpal"' . "So, then, you are willing to give God a tenth when he I gives you a little, but not when he gives you much. I should  not expect he would prosper me, if I did so. You cannot have the income, or know what it will be, till you have had the use E of it a year, and then you will be under renewed obligations for his blessing upon it, which enabled you to receive any- thing."  "Aunt, I think you are worse than the 'horse-leech!'" said Delia, walking nervously across the floor. "You require me  to give a tenth of the whole, at first, and then tithe the remain- der! that's worse than the poor Jews were required to do."  No, I think it is just about equal. Tey, like you, step- ped into possession of property which they did not earn, and, instead of cutting off a tenth of their inheritance, they were required to give three tenths of the increase thereof; so my  minister used to say. Now if you prefer keeping your prop- 9 erty entire, I suppose you could do the same, and it would be i just as acceptable, if you would only continue to do it. When you have reserved such a  portion, I think you will find you will have much more yet to give to benevolent purposes,  -much less perplexity, and as much money left for yourself as will be good for you." ' I1   CLOUDS IN ELDORADO.        95 "I am willing," said Delia, "to give one tenth of the in- terest; but one tenth of the principal, or three tenths of the interest, I can't think of giving." "Do as you please," said her Aunt, but do n't complain of people's quoting Scripture to you, till you are willing to do as much for your Lord as a poor Jew, to whom he was made known only in types and shadows." This conversation, which was carried on directly over the back sitting-room, betrayed the fact that Delia had been in the house, to the trembling and disconcerted party below. A low sound, as of some persons engaged in conversation, with an occasional tread across the floor, was distinctly heard by them a few moments after Aunt Dorothy left the room. "I do believe Delia 's in the house!" said Helen; "Aunt Dorothy can't be talking with herself." "I wish the deuce, I knew when she came in!" said George. ' I do n't believe but you knew she was in the house, Tim, and was listening, when you talked so wisely and quoted Scripture."        J ';Upon my word, I didn't," said Timothy; "if I had, I would have said some things a little different, I'll assure you!" "Well!" said George, twirling his hat on his hand, and looking up with a face expressive of despair, with an attempt to conceal it by ridicule: "I'd give as much for a thousand dollars in the old rotten United States Bank, as for my chance with Delia, now! How I shall look, meeting her after this! I think I see myself doing it!" "You are all deservedly in a pretty fix," said Mrs. Ed- wards. "Mother, as I am the ringleader," said George, "I think I had better go to Uncle John's and stay a few days, till she's 'got over it a littleo"   96       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.          X ri Mrs. Edwards was prevented from answering him by the entrance of her husband with a letter for Delia. "Do n't go till after she's read this letter," said Timothy; "perhaps it is to notify her of another legacy, and that will a make her good-natured and forgiving.'          r "A very likely idea!" says George, satirically; " it do n't rain porridge more than once in a person's life!"    i Delia was glad to receive the letter, for it closed a conver- sation between her and her Aunt, which had now become disa- } greeable; but her relief was only momentary.       ! "How often have I heard it said, that one trouble never : comes alone! I do believe all creation has a lien upon me!"P a exclaimed Delia, in anguish, as she finished reading the let- ter, and looked round the room with the air of one who was almost distracted. "What's happened?" said her Aunt, alarmed at her wild and distressed appearance. "Here's a letter from a lawyer, stating that he writes at the request of some distant relatives, who threaten to break - the Will, on the ground that Uncle Storer was insane or not competent to dispose of his property, when he made the Will. They pretend that they can prove this by a man who knew him in India, but that they will compromise the matter and re- linquish all claims; upon the payment of fifty thousand dol- r:- lars." The suggestion of Timothy, that this letter might heal the difficulty, proved true, but in a very different way, from what he had supposed. It brought down Delia's haughty and proud feelings. She felt that God, in this letter, threatened ': to deal with her, as she had threatened to deal with her X brother and sister, and she rushed down stairs with the S mournful letter open in her hand, and communicated her sor- !t rows and received sympathy and assistance from those to "   CLOUDS IN ELDORADO.        97 whom, a few moments before, she would have found it diffi- cult to have spoken peaceably. "I'll tell you what," said George, "I would n't submit to that. There are scores of persons here who will testify that Mr. Storer always called you his c; little heir;" and does it look like insanity for a man to keep his promise, and do what he always intended?" "Yes, something like it, in this wicked world," said Delia, half laughing through her tears: " but only think, if I have got this evidence, it may cost me the fifty thousand to get the case if I go to law, and then I shall be no better off than I should now, if I gave up at once!" "Well,I would n't give up, if it did; I never would let them have the money!" said Timothy. Fortunately, after many wakeful and anxious nights, much consultation with lawyers, and the expense of a few thousands, the claim was suddenly withdrawn by the death of the principal witness, who, when he perceived his last hour was come, confessed that he had never known Mr. Storer,- that he had never been in India except as a sailor, when he went ashore for a few days,--that he had been induced to give the above testimony by the persuasion of some of the heirs, and from the promise of a share in the profits if the claim was successful. The cloud of vexations, which had obscured her brilliant prospects, now seemed to have vanished. The property was invested safely,--friends were numerous and attentive- her sky seemed bright and clear, and she appeared to revel in the joys of her new station, like the butterfly on a bright summer's day. 9   CHAPTER      VII.          i- THE JOURNEY. "what virtue, or what mental grace, But men unqualified and base Will boast it their possession? -- Cowper. THE favorable termination of the lawsuit, and the calm, so grateful after such numerous vexations, were peculiarly favorable for the offending brothers and sister. Delia mani- fested her forgiveness by fulfilling her promises to them, and accordingly the reader need not be surprised to find both ; Delia and Helen located at the celebrated school of Madame B   , whose noble house, beautiful grounds, and shady walls, seemed to render the paths of science attractive. Delia's application to her studies had been so assiduous in i? the days of her poverty, that she was really a better scholar than malny who had enjoyed greater advantages, and she was us enabled to maintain a respectable standing in her -asses, with comparative ease,-her main attention being d ected to the more ornamental branches of education. As nost of the young ladies of her age were soon to " leave school," Delia felt unwilling to remain long behind them, and there-  fore returned home, after a short absence, regarded by all, as a well educated and accomplished young lady. "Now I   know why that little room, that extends into the garden, has been added to Mr. Edwards's house," said Laura Temple to her mother, as she came in from her evening's walk.                             a M-rs. Temple looked up, inquiringly.           I' 4 ' *"'   ?:- :!THE JOURNEY.                   99 "It's Delia's studio, or boudoir, or some new-fangled name of that sort," continued Laura. "Studio! ha'n't she had enough of study at that great academy, where she's been a year or more?" said Mrs. Temple, with some vexation. "She's finished her education at school, she says, but is going to pursue her studies at home," said Laura, attempting to mimic Delia's air and manner. O, mother, you must go up to Mr. Edwards's, and see that room. Nearly three sides of it are windows, and the trees bend so gracefully over it, that they form a perfect little bower in front. The windows reach to the floor, so that she can open them, and walk directly into the garden, which is perfectly lovely now. The room is beautifully carpeted; one side of it is literally lined with choice books, in elegant bindings. A small writing- desk, inlaid with pearl, stands upon a. marble table, and before it is a chair, cushioned with velvet." "Ha'n't she but one chair," said Mrs. Temple, determined to find fault with something. "She has a velvet lounge, but she do n't need any more seats, for this room is to be her ' delightful solitude,' where' she's going to read, write, and reflect, and be an angel, I suppose, for she's got a harp there, and it looks as though a good part of it was gold." "Delightful solitude!" said farmer Temple, taking off his frock, preparatory to sitting down to his evening meal. ' De- lightful fiddlestick, more like. Do you expect such a rich girl as she, is going to make a hermit of herself! No, you may depend upon it, she 'll be riding, and walking, and fish- ing, and sauntering with the beaux. All-the studying she'll do, will be the kind old Pope recommended." "What was that?"                 -/ ' The proper study of mankind is man,' you little goose,   100      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. I learnt that 'by heart' from my school-reader, long before I was as old as you."      $ "Perhaps some girls would do as you say, father," said Laura; " but Delia always loved reading and study. Do n't you remember our minister said, there was n't a book in our i town library, which she had not read while she was braiding straw? If she would attend so closely to books while she was obliged to work, it is reasonable to suppose she will not neglect them when she has nothing else to do. I 'd give any- thing for her privileges." "Why don't you go up there, and borrow some of her books; you used to be so intimate, I should think you might,' said Mrs. Temple. "I was fool enough to ask her, but pretty soon found my mistake." "What answer did she give you?" "She- drawled out a very reluctant 'yes,' and looking abstractly, said: II hope you wont mention it to any one, for - do n't wish people to get an idea that I make a practice of lending my books. Such highly gilded volumes are easily  Boiled.' I took the book, but laid it down soon after, and was : very careful to forget to bring it home with me, and I am certain I never shall remember to bring one away from there, if I live to be as old as Methuselah. t How ungenerous! She ]mew I would be as careful of her books, as she would,' said Laura, in a tone of deep dejection.            p "Well," said farmer Temple, kindly, rising and going to his desk, and taking out a large leather pocket book, "I a'nt as rich as she is, and I can't give you all the folderols that she has, but I guess I can afford to. give you as many books as you will read, without your being dependant upon Delia I Edwards.  There," said he, throwing some bills into her lap, "cheer up, and go to the city with your mother, tao-manr   THE JOURNEY.         101 row, and get what books you want, and then you may neither borrow nor lend; but do n't let her get any novels, mother," said he, turning to his wife. ,O! how literary," said Miss North, as she surprised Delia dozing in her literary retreat, and imprinted a kiss upon her cheek. "I've interrupted and scattered some bright dreams, I dare say, but you must forgive me,) dear, it is so long since I've seen you." 4, You've scattered nothing but tediousness and dullness, said Delia, rising and returning the kiss. "I 'm delighted to see you. What do you manage to do with yourself these long days?" "Nothing; I'm moped to death. I do n't know what I should do, if it were not for your charming company, once in a while. There 's no other society here in D--, and but precious little I see of you. Your exquisite little retreat engrosses all your attention, I suppose. Dear me! how good and studious you are!" and the little beauty threw herself gracefully upon the velvet lounge. "Studious! I am far enough from- that," replied Delia. I do n't know what's come over me of late. I've no relish for my books. I used to think I was fond of reading, but I find too much, even of a good thing, may be disgusting. It is so dull and monotonous, that I find myself at your house almost every day, befbre I am aware of it. I am sure you cannot complain of my staying at home, for mamma says I'm gone all the time, and you know I seldom go out without you." "I don't mean to complain, dear;l but the days are so long, that it seems an age, after you leave, before I see you again. I've been teasing papa to take me to some fashion-'  9-.   102      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.      i:s able watering place, and if I can induce him to go, you must : accompany us."          '    b.  Delia was delighted at this proposal. She had long wished for some such recreation, but had no suitable person to ac-  company her. No/w, every difficulty seemed obviated, save obtaining Esq. North's consent, wlhich was easily gained. Many a villager's eye was turned toward Esq. North's carriage with envious feelings, as it conveyed them the first stage of their journey, to that most wearisome of all corn-::: fortable places, the " sitting-room" at a rail-road station. "Now for a chapter of illustrated human nature," said- Delia, as she seated herself, and began to watch the different individuals that congregated there for the same purpose.  A corpulent man, with a red face, and silver-headed cane ! vith almost as many knots down the sides as he was years  ! ld, first attracted their attention. He came in with a lady f suitable age, who appeared to be his wife. E very article ; f their apparel was of the richest material of its kind, but  ecidedly ancient in its texture and manufacture; Esquire [orth rose and greeted them very cordially, and then intro- uaced the young ladies. There'was something so gross about i . is couple, and they manifested such consequential and self - ttisfied airs, that while they were disagreeable to the young  dies, they afforded them no little merriment.        " '  Take care how you make sport of them," said Esquire orth, aside; " theyare very wealthy people, and can be of 'I me advantage to us, if you do not offend them."      *i Where did you get acquainted with them, papa,"said iss North. ; Old Mr. Niles was a  client of mine, several years ago. elped him gain an important case, and the old miser paid  well for it and has given me much of his business since," I  Esq. North.             ,      :   ! Mti   THE JOURNEY.         103 Next a pale, lovely little woman, with a frolicsome clh!X in one arm, and a large basket on the other, took her posie tion in waiting with the others. A middle aged, well dressed gentleman, with a beautiful lady leaning upon him, accom- panied by two lovely children, about four and six years of age, and a servant, next made his appearance. Arother, tall, dark complexioned, with whiskers, a pair of sparkling eyes, a fine figure in the finest of broadcloth, accompanied by a young lady about twenty, followed immediately after. Her face was fair as alabaster, and about it her flaxen curls hung luxuriantly; but there was no color in her cheeks and lips, and she was enveloped in shawls and other garments, sufficient at that season to weaken the strongest. The rush- ing of the arriving cars left no time for further observation. The corpulent gentleman and lady sat but a short dis- tance from, and in full view of Esq. North and his party; the young gentleman and his companion, in a seat opposite them. The cars being poor places for conversation, the time, after the novelty wore off, began to pass heavily. At first, the neat villages of white houses, embowered among the trees,- the beautiful fields and winding river, which murmured now on this side, then dashing from them like a coy maiden, peeped at them  again through the tall green grass of the meadows, some miles beyond, on the other,- the tall trees,-  the mountainous hills,--for a time excited their curiOty and admiration. But the constant watching became tedious,  and they were glad to avail themselves of the news-boy, with his pile of trash, till the monotony was changed by their arrival at the boat, which was to convey them  to New York. "A gentleman wishes for ladies in No. 22 and 23," said the chambermaid, next morning, approaching the berths of r     ^   104      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. Delia and Miss North. They prepared to obey the summons !X of Esquire North, when to her dismay, Delia discovered that her watch was gone, and purse, in which she kept a part of  her money. The captain was notified, a search was insti- tuted, so far as possible, but no tidings of either could be had. The boat had stopped at a landing, about 3 o'clock, and the captain suggested that probably it was taken by some one who had left at that time. The view of the Empire City,-- its beautiful battery, parks and fountains,- stately edifices of brick, stone and marble,-its shops, and its babel-like con-  A fusion,--were now viewed by Delia, with more of fear than pleasure; and every individual she met, was regarded by her with mistrust and suspicion. She hardly dared glance at the Highlands as they sailed up the noble Hudson, or gaze at the beautiful villages and fertile banks on either side, lest  in an unguarded moment, some remaining valuable might be taken. Fortunately for her, Mrs. Edwards had anticipated I the possibility of such an event, and by her advice, most of i : the money was securely concealed. The elderly gentleman   : and his wife, the middle aged gentleman and suite, and the young gentleman and lady, were their companions through  the journey, and by the frequent meeting, were beginning to it i i feel quite acquainted, though little conversation had passed : : : between them.                        ^ The old lady enjoyed her pipe, and the old gentleman oc l casionally took his brandy. The former became quite inter-  ested in Delia's robbery, and she made many inquiries of  :l those of her travelling companions with whom she was acquainted, whether the young lady was able to lose it.  ' f Jogging Miss North's elbow, and bending forward close to  :: her, she began:                       - "Is that young lady any relation of yourn?"      . "No," replied Miss North, with forcedl eivility.   THE JOURNEY.         105 Is she able to lose so much?" persisted the old lady, in n audible whisper.  Y Yes, and many times more,' said Miss North, with in-  ifference.. The old lady, at the next convenient opportunity, ap- roached Delia as she was standing on the quarter-deck, and said, in an inquiring tone: "You could n't hear anything from that watch and puss, they tell me?"  , No, I've given them up as lost, irrecoverably," said De-  lia, looking rather sober; " there was n't much money in the purse, they are welcome to that, but I should have been glad if they'd left me the watch!"         ar , Young folks don't think much of money that they can get without any trouble from their pas, I find," said the old lady,. beginning to look knowingly from her little gray eyes, "but when some friend gives them a trinket, they know its value. However," said she, as Delia made her no answer," it is very provoking to be robbed so. I know what it is"         l "Have you lost anything since you came on board,' said Delia, looking up as though she was rejoiced to find she was not worse off than everybody else. "No, not here ; but the rogues came into our house!" said the old woman, kindling with warmth at the recollection of her wrongs, " and took a trunk of money out of the room where we were sleeping soundly! the rascals knew we were deaf, I suppose; and then they went round ransacking the rest of the house. They took all the silver they could find,  but were so good as to leave the plated ware to us," said she, with a contemptuous expression which convulsed Miss North with laughter. "I did n't feel much likelarfing," continued Mrs. Niles, who noticed Miss North's merriment, "but I guess you'd a' laughed, if you'd been into the kitchen the next morning. There was the table set out in grand style, !   106      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. and all the buckwheats that Nancy set in the corner to rise for breakfast, had been cooked and eaten! The lamps in the  parlor were lighted, and the candles in the branches burning in broad daylight!" , Did they take much money?" said Delia.  ' Six thousand, in gold!" said the old lady. "Did you ever recover any of it?"      - "Not a cent!" Here the old lady's countenance assumed  a fierce aspect. "I never felt reconciled to that. Only think, how much good that might have done! I do n't understand why such things are permitted!"  "You had reserved it, then, for some charitable purpose?" replied Delia, inquiringly.               I "Not exactly that," said the old lady; ,' we mean to give it, a i most all, when we've done with it, to found a hospital, or for  some charitable purpose; but we don't give away a great deal now, while we live, because we have no children, and i8 we do n't know how much it will take to carry us through. - Now there's all that money will do no good but support fel- J lers who ought to get their living in the State's prison I " ' "What a pity you did n't give it away before it was stolen!" { said a young clergyman of her acquaintance, who was stand- i I ing by and heard the remark.               :  "Very likely you think so," replied the old lady; "you are young, and do n't understand providing for, a family, nor how much it costs! I think that would be presumptuous." ' But you would have been just as well off," replied the young man, "as you are now; and, as you say, the money  ?j would have done more good."                ' "But we couldnot know, certainly, that we should be rob- -bed, if we had, we would have given it before." "I suppose," said Delia, "that after the robbery, you had your house fastened more securely." * , :/   THE JOURNEY.         107 ,cThat shows you don't know much about this wicked world!" said the old lady. "Do you think we went to, bed, with so much money in the house, without locking up tight? I do n't know as there's any locks that the rogues can't pick! We had some bolts put on the doors the next day, to be sure; but then you can't fasten them only on the inside ; so we never know what we shall find when we return, after we've left the house alone." "Have you ever been robbed again?" inquired Delia. "No, but I live in constantfear. O, this is a strange world!" sighed the old lady, sitting down upon one of the chairs, and taking from her pocket, a snuff-box which seemed to be the only panacea she knew for the ills of life. "I'll assure you," she continued, after having snuffed sufficient support from her box, "I've worked hard in my young days, 'and so has my husband; we've earnt and saved, so as to enjoy ourselves; and folks that would n't untie our shoes have had more of the comfort of it than we! I 'd advise you to keep a pretty sharp look-out, or folks wont let you have nothin! I know how't is I I've seen more of the world than you!" said she, shaking her head significantly. "That old woman has taken a mighty fancy to you," said Miss North; "I hope she wont take to me so; it would n't pay if I had to give her as much attention as you feel obliged to do, unless she intended to remember me in her Will! I would be civil to the old creature in that case! but I should not suppose that would be any object to you." No, I should prefer being remembered by some one liv- ing, replied Delia, smiling; " it seems too much like a voice trom the tomb, to hear her cloaking sound; but I expect I must take some bitter with the sweet! so much good company is seldom found, without some one whom we could excuse." Well," said Lizzie, ,you are more gracious than I!   108      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.  I could not feel in humor to compliment even yourself, after being bored with that disagreeable woman." For the remainder of the journey, old lMrs. Niles ab- sorbed much of the time and attention of Delia, in listening to her quaint remarks, and answering her inquiries, much to the alternate vexation and amusement of Miss North. It is late in the afternoon, - the refreshing evening breeze is circulating gently through the spacious parlors of one of the largest hotels at Saratoga. Ladies, gay as butterflies, leaning upon the arms of gentlemen of the same species, are prome- nading the piazza, while various groups are assembled in different parts of the rooms. In one corner sit Mr. and Miss Chester,- the dark-eyed young gentleman and flaxen-haired young lady, who were briefly noticed among the travelling- companions of Delia, with several other exquisites of their acquaintance, of both sexes. They are briefly discussing the different occupants of the rooms. ', You may fancy Miss Bosworth, if you like," said young Chester, " but depend upon it there is no lady here who walks with half the majesty and dignity of Miss Edwards! just now observe her! and she is so sincere and artless, too!- I 've travelled these six years, and been introduced to many elegant and fashionable ladies, but never did I see one who united more dignity and propriety with such truthfulness and simplicity." This remark was purposely made in the hearing of old Mrs. Niles, who was sitting but a short distance from them, and, rejoicing that she had something to communicate, repeated the compliment to Delia as soon as a convenient opportunity offered. This was as Chester hoped and expected; and he now left the room with a friend, where, amid the shady walks of that village, they continued the conversation.   THE JOURNEY.         109 'I should think you were in love, Chester, if I had n't seen you in ecstasies so many times before," said Clarke, as they were walking slowly along. "Well, there is something in a pretty woman that is fasci- nating, I'll acknowledge; but there is a peculiar charm in one of these children of nature, which far surpasses the attrac- tions of fashionable belles. I confess I like that piece of ver- dant dignity and innocence, and I don't think I shall look any further." "I shouldn't think you'd be such a stickler for nature, truthfulness, and all these moral phrases,- your every-day  conduct looks like it!" said Clarke, looking up into Chester's face inquiringly, to see if he was really going to reform. "That's just the reason why I 've a peculiar relish for it," said Chester. "' You see, if I ever look for a wife, I want one in whom  I can place more confidence than I can in my- self." "I hope all the ladies you have associated with, have not been upon a par with yourself. If so, you do not pay them much of a compliment. For my part, I wouldn't own that Idid not associate with ladies better than myself!" "O, neither would I," said Chester; "but these natural cu- riosities are so unsuspecting, they have not associated enough with the world to be corrupted by deceit, or believe but all are as artless as themselves." "Well, and what then?" ' Well, I'1 tell you: you know that my father left me a pretty handsome fortune." "Yes, an immense one! and you could have married any of the rich belles of your acquaintances." "True, but I've lived pretty hard since the old msn's death, and I can't marry one of those fashionable beauties; I'm not able to support their extravagant notions." 10    "O      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "Ah! now I see it," said Clarke, "You think this country girl will not be so extravagant as a city belle!" " Not that, exactly, - Miss Edwards has an ample fortune at her own disposal,-she 's got to wait for the death of no father, uncle, or aunt; but the parents and guardians, down in Wall Street, look upon me as a spendthrift, rightly enough, I suppose, and they 'll see that the money belonging to their daughters and wards, is secured, so that I can't get the con- trol of it." "s But is it possible that you have run through your fortune, so that you would marry a girl for the sake of her money!" "You needn't say anything about it,' said Chester, leaning against a tree and looking round, "but my bank- stock is gone, my real estate, though very valuable, is under heavy mortgages, and unless I marry money, I shall be ruined." "How did you learn that she had property? I should want to be certain of that before I proceeded very far." O! old Mrs. Niles told me she was sole heir of an uncle in India, who died worth a million. She had her information from Esq. North."           - "A And you expect to get in there without any trouble? The old 'squire looks pretty sharp through his gold-bowed spec's. How 'll he like your habits?" " I intend to pull the wool over his eyes too." Young Chester had not passed unnoticed by either Miss North or Delia; and his perfect knowledge of the polite ways of the world, and of woman's nature, enabled him to produce a very favorable impression upon their minds long before he sought an introduction. The compliments which he had sown broadcast, and pur- posely in the hearing of Mrs. Niles, he rightly judged, had been repeated to Delia, and he thought the next time they   THE JOURNEY.         1" met, he perceived their effect upon her. The young lady travelling with him was his orphan sister; she had been en- feebled by luxury, and sought from the healing waters of these Springs, that relief which quiet, abstinence, and the vigorous exercise of healthy employment, would have better imparted. ( Who is that tall red-haired gentleman, who is talking so earnestly with your father," said Delia to Miss North. "O, that is Stephen, as they call him,-Stephen Taylor. He is about half quaker, and, by his Friends, is generally ad- dressed in the plain language." "But he is not dressed as a Friend!" N\o, be doffed that, long ago, then he was 'read out of meeting, as they term excommunication." Xc Do you know for what he was excommunicated? It could not be anything very bad, or your father would not be on such good terms with him." "^ Yes, and I can tell you why he is so often talking with father : he's quite a politician, and a speculator in stocks. He made his fortune, a great while ago, by keeping a whole- sale liquor establishment, which was contrary to the rules of the Friends, and of course he was dismissed from their fellow s ship. Now he's abandoned that business, he might be re- ceived back again, for aught I know." Esq. North now came in from the Piazza, where he- had been talking, accompanied by Stephen, who approached Miss North with the familiarity of an old acquaintance, and was introduced, by her, to Miss Edwards. Mr. Taylor was a bachelor, much acquainted with the world, and able to make himself quite agreeable, but evidently de- void of principle, as his occasional oaths plaindicated. Delia, was shocked at his unblushing profanity, and while she wondered that such a man should be treated with any respect   "2      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. by persons of property and standing, determined herself to show her disapprobation of his conduct.  She admired Mr. Chester's person, his graceful manners, his delicate attentions, and anticipations even of her wants. Yet he never, in her presence, paid her any compliments, save what might be inferred from his studious regard of her wishes, and the pleasing attention with which he listened to her conversation, Through others, she frequently received compliments, which flattered her vanity fkr more than if they had been made to herself. And the kind of compliments, seemed to her mind, to show his own superior excellence. He acknowledged her personal accomplishments and attrac- tions, but her mental virtues and religious worth were always subjects of praise. One thing seemed inexplicable to her. It was, that Stephen Taylor seemed to be on too good terms with Mr. Chester. Tlis she did not like. She could not relish the idea of one who seemed so pure, associating with one who was so likely to contaminate him by his evil com- munications. Stephen noticed Delia's disapproval of his profanity, and respected her the more for it. He was naturally frank- one of those person who so thoroughly despise hypocrisy, that they make a virtue of exposing their own worst failings, leaving the sub-stratum of kindness and truth to be received with greater zest, on account of the surprise which their dis- covery produces. Stephen rejoiced that he was not a hypo. crite, and under this strange cloak, allowed himself in the practice of immoralities, which, though no Catholic, he seemed to think were expiated by confession. He had, however, a pleasing way of insinuating himself into the good graces of others, by Igranting favors, when it was impossible to see how his own interest would thereby be pro- moted.  He noticed with some pain, Chester's insidious   -THE JOURNEY.         lB advances towards Delia, and the constant increase of her unsuspecting regard for him. Not that he was envious, and wished her himself, for there were reasons why he determined to remain a bachelor, but he knew her danger, and resolved to save her if he could. An opportunity was not long in presenting itself. "So Agnes Simonds has at last married Joseph Childs!" said Stephen, one day, coming in from the piazza, where he had been reading the morning's papers. "'What a pity," said Miss North, "'that such a lovely young lady should throw herself away upon such an unprin- cipled young man!' "  Well! it 's as the world goes," said Stephen. "Courting is only another name for masquerade." "( That sounds just like an old bachelor," said Miss North. "It sounds just like the truth," said Stephen, " and I thank you for the implied compliment. Old bachelors and truth synonyms, eh! that sounds well!" "It sounds like a- great many other things, - better than it is!" said Miss North. "I'm very sorry for Aga," said 1Mrs. Niles, who Was also acquainted with her; " she 's such a nice girl, it's a pity she should love such a young man." "If she is all you represent her, she could not love a wild, unprincipled youth," said Delia, with decision and warmth. "Love must be founded upon respect." " Begging your pardon," said Stephen, with a bow, " nothing is easier. I understand the ladies; Mrs. Childs is a very excellent person, and ardently loves her dissolute husband:' "I can demonstrate to you that such a thing is impossible," said Delia. "Love in a virtuous mind must be founded upon respect. A stream cannot rise any higher than its fountain. Such a girl as you represent Miss Simonds, could 10'   "4      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. not respect a, dissolute man, therefore she could not love him." "That's very logical, if it were 'only true," said Stephen. "You must take a different start, if you wish to arrive at correct conclusions. A woman's reason in these things, is controlled by her affections and sympathies, and the better a woman is, the easier is she won." "She may be duped, I grant," said Delia, "but if she, knows a man's character is not good, I maintain she cannot love him." "That's exactly the point at issue," said Stephen, "I contend that if a woman knows him to be such, and she is everything that is (pure, and lovely, and of good report,' she can, will, and often does, love him devotedly." "I cannot agree with you," said Delia. "Where a woman loves a man under such circumstances, it would diminish my respect for herself very much." Stephen looked at her significantly, and replied. "You think I 'm a very wicked man, and you think right, for I am. But as wicked as I am, I could make a good woman love me, ,you, for instance, - in spite of your logic." Delia gave him a look of denial as plainly as words could have spoken it. Stephen gave no heed to her look; he ex- pected it, but bent upon showing her her danger, he con- tinued, as much at ease as before, 0'I'll tell you how it could be done," said he;, I would leave off swearing in your presence, acknowledge I was very wicked, always listen attentively whenever you made any serious remarks, antici- pate all your wants, and particularly never flatter you to your face I would take care, however, that you should get abundance of compliments second hand, and these should always, while they acknowledged your personal attractions, place most stress, upon your mental and moral excellence.   THE JOURNEY.         115 You would then think more of my flattery, than if it came directly from me, and you would think there must be some- thing good about me, to love you for your religion, and you would be so desirous to do me good, and exert yourself so much, that you would love me devotedly before you knew it. Then all I should have to do would be, to represent to you that my salvation, temporal at least, depended upon your ac- ceptance of my hand, and you wouldx consummate that love by marriage. Delia was silent for some time. Her quick perceptions told her that he had, in some points, represented Chester's course precisely, and the blood mounted to her cheek and ears at the thought that her preference for him had been discovered; but the idea that Chester's character was at all similar to Stephen's, she would not for a moment receive, although it must be confessed, the intimation made hera little uneasy. A few evenings after, as Delia entered the parlor, she noticed Stephen and Chester sitting near the door, apparently in earnest conversation. Chester was silent as she passed them, but Stephen continued in a clear, distinct voice, "O, don't call it that, the name will frighten good people, and then it wont succeed. Call it a Museum, or something of that sort; that Christians will patronize, and then it will go, though it be the same thing!"It was in vain that Chester looked at Stephen to be quiet. He intended Delia should understand that Chester was planning some source of amuse- ment, of which she would not approve, if she understood its nature. This incident, while it added to her uneasiness, strange to say, was not convincing, and in the end increased her affec- tion, because she regarded Chester as the object of persecu- tion. So wicked a man as Stephen, might as well misrepre-   "6      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. sent Chester, as do many other things, of which he was in the daily habit. She had never seen anything, particularly objectionable in him, except that he was on too good terms with Stephen. This she charitably ascribed to force of cir- cumstances. Perhaps, said she to herself, he does not like his society, better than I do, but cannot help, now and then, having some conversation with him. I would not have be- lieved that I should have ever spoken so many civil words to such a profane man, and I should not wish to be considered like him, because I am, from circumstances, obliged to be civil. Though she would thus plead for Chester, she could not but be convinced, that his intercourse with Stephen was far different from her own. Chester had, by nature, a noble mind. And though it had not been rightly disciplined by study, it was refined by the society into which he was early thrown, and the advantages which a person like him could not easily enjoy, without im- provement. He was fond of poetry, music, painting, and statuary. His taste for these had been improved by gratifi- cation, superficially, of course. His feelings were warm, his taste refined, and he could enjoy an intellectual treat of any kind, "well got up," to use his own phrase, from the comedy and tragedy of the theatre, to the sublimer eloquence of the pulpit. "Mr. Strong was very animated and interesting this morn- ing," said Chester to Delia one Sabbath noon, by way of shlowing her he had, been to church. "Yes," replied, Delia, her eyes glistening with delight; "I am glad you was there to enjoy such an excellent sermon." "Yes, I did enjoy it, but I can hardly be supposed to appreciate it, as you did. That requires a preparation of heart, as the preacher said, which I do not profess. But when thero isa uch beauty of diction, such pathos, such ap-   THE JOURNEY.         117 parent interest in his hearers, and a vastness of subject, giving sublimity to eloquence, a person of any refinement cannot but be willing to listen for hours. When I go into a religious assembly, such as that, and can so enter into the feelings of the preacher, and am carried along with him, 1 feel inclined to cavil at the hard saying, that the, natural man cannot discern the things of the spirit, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned,' and think it 'o a mistake in the translation." * "It is easier to mistake our own-. hearts, than the Scrip- tures," replied Delia; "a man may think he discerns spiritual things, when he does not;, and he may be under the influence of the p]oetry of religion, which is to the reality, as the shadow is to the substance." Is that why Tom Moore, who wrote so eloquently of love and wine, could also write as though he knew all about it, ' There's nothing true but Heaven?" "Yes, I was just going to give that as an illustration. The truth is, religion is the soul of poetry. There is eleva- tion of thought, there is a wide range of subjects, all har- monious, and blending so variously, and yet so unitedly to one common centre! There's love, that drowns all other, and of which earthly love is but a faint representation. Look at the facts! Every poet has his religious hours, and some of the sweetest songs of the worst and best of men, are those which are composed when they are in these religious frames of mind." "Then you think people ' in a natural state," as the Bible and the preacher call it, are sometimes religious? That's just what I was thinking; and does not that show, that there is something good in men, naturally?" "Noj by religious frames, I mnaa when the intellect-is   "8       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. contemplating religious truths, and they commend themselves to the enlightened understanding. In proportion as a man's mind is cultivated and disciplined, he must perceive the ex- cellence and power of the truth and duties of the Christian religion. Every one admits, that nothing great is ever achieved without laborious effort. There you see, in a nut shell, is the glorious Scripture doctrine of self-denial. The trees, the flowers, the sun, the moon, and the stars, without which poetry would be robbed of her jewels, all point to .n architect, whom, while all their powers are taxed to consider, they cannot comprehend. Thompson, in his beautiful work on the Seasons, says- 'These, as they change, Almighty Father, these Are but the varied God. Thle rolling year Is full of thee.' Whether Thompson was a Christian when he wrote this, has been disputed; but it -is not essential to know. Either way, it illustrates my idea." "Byron wrote some excellent passages respecting the Bible, and several times in such a religious strain, that it is difficult to conceive how he could have written better, if he had been a Christian," said Chester. "Moore did so likewise," replied Delia. "How beautiful his lines upon the angel's visit to Peter in Prison, - ' Like him whose fetters dropp'd away When light shone o'er his prison, My spirit touched by McKrcy's ray, Hath' from her chains arisen. And shall a soul Thou bid'st be free, Return to bondage? never! Thee, O God, and only Thee-- I live for now and ever.'   THE JOURNEY.         119 But I confess entire ignorance of Byron's works. His repu- tation is such, that I do not wish even a literary acquaintance with him." "There are, nevertheless, jewels of thought, and beauty of expression in his poetry, of rare excellence," replied Chester. "So I suppose," said Delia; " but I do not wish to wade in the mire for jewels of thought,while there are so many that I can obtain in more congenial places." "There are many persons of exalted character, and purity of sentiment, that have separated the excellent from the more objectionable, and found no injury, but rather a benefit from the perusal of his works. Not that I would profess that I can do it, but I think you need not fear," said Chester. "It is a ' tree of knowledge of good and evil,' of which I do not wish to partake," said Delia. "Greater excellencies, without-his defects, can be found in the sublimer regions of inspired poetry." "Some people are never so religious, as when they are half drunk," said Stephen, who was sitting but a short dis- tance from them, and had listened to the conversation with interest. "I think there is little doubt," continued he, " that both Byron and Moore often 'spiritually discerned'many things, and they have many humble imitators." Our party, not being invalids, were confined to the Springs no longer than inclination dictated. Niagara Falls and Lake George were each in their turn visited, and our readers may not be surprised that Chester and his sister journeyed in the same direction. "Why are you so silent," said Chester, as he and Delia stood, arm-in-arm, beside the mighty cataract.?I've been expecting this would inspire you with ' thoughts that breathe, and words that burn.' This is a time for noble thoughts."   120      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "Yes, but not for great swelling words," said Delia. I can't compete with the voice of many waters, and I do n't like to be reminded of my insignificance, by attempting it." "There are other things that are desirable, besides Niag- ara. There's beauty in variety. The gentle cascade is as perfect in its way, as this sublime and grand waterfall; and woman's voice is not the less agreeable, because it will not vie in strength and grandeur with this boisterous cataract," said Chester. "You mistake me," said Delia; "I have no ambition to be an Amazon, much less a female Niagara; but this noblest of falls, inspires a desire to excel in something. I wanted, like this, to be perfect of my kind, so I thought I'd be a silent woman." "If that's the effect it produces, it is a good place to bring a cargo of pretty dunces," said Chester; " but you should never attempt such a thing! We'll hurry away at once, if this mighty babbler is going to silence you." "O! no; let us stop and look, and listen, and you shall have a perfect torrent of talk; but if it drowns your senses, you must not blame me."       l "I'm not afraid of that; but if I am carried away with it, I shall not be surprised," said Chester.   CHAPTER VIII. THE STUDENT. IT is evening. In the fourth story of a large brick house, in the city of B , sits a young man, deeply absorbed in his books. While he is alternately looking from his Greek Tes- tament to his Lexicon, let us examine his library: Butler's Analogy, Latin Grammar, Greek Grammar and Testament- a thundering knock at the door, and the entrance of a half- dozen gay-looking young gentlemen disturb the student, and prevent our farther scrutiny. "Here we have found you in your den, at last," said the foremost, whom we will call Harrington. "We were really concerned about you," said Hawes, " and we have come a committee, six-strong, to ascertain the cause of this wonderful change. You used to be the life of our circles; now we do n't catch you in them; what in the world is the matter?  "Ve've voted you in love!" cries a third, " and we have come to offer our services and help you through the mire. We can't have you bury yourself any longer." "1 'm half inclined to think he's become serious!" says a fourth. It's almost a year since he began to change." "And what do you propose to do with me, if all is true that you have surmised," said Frank, who had just found an opportunity to speak. "We intend," said Harrington, "to see if we cannot restore you to your former self." Frank got up and walked to the glass - "I do n't see but I look about as usual," said he, running his fingers through his "   122      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. hair,-" a little thin and worn, by sitting up late nights, I 'll confess!" '"Ali, there we have it!" cried Hawes, " do n't come to a pause so quick; ;make a clean breast of it, and tell us what you've been doing nights, when you ought to have been a-bed,r and what has given you such a disrelish for our society?" "I'll tell you, gentlemen: it is a secret now; but in a week from to-night, if I succeed, I 'll let you into my plans. I trust I am not crazy or lovesick; but I have an object in view, and get so little time after business-hours, that I am obliged to re- linquish the society of my friends, or give it up entirely." The next week, the same young men were punctual in their meeting at Atherton's room. Frank's books were laid aside, and his countenance had not assumed so pleasant and even joyful aspect for a long time. "We've come with a determination to render you any assistance in our power; but I see, by your looks, that you need none," said Hawes, in haste to hear the par- ticulars. "Well, I have been examined, and shall enter Col- lege at the end of the vacation. This is what I ive been ti-ying to do for so long. Now you know why I have so constantly refused your invitations to be one of your party." "But how could you accomplish all this? You have had no more time nor salary than I have," said Harrington. "I'll tell you : I have studied during the intervals between business-hours, and devoted a good part of my nights, to the same pursuits."                 i "But what is going to sustain- you while in college?"  "I expect to get along then as I have now,-by manage- ment. I have kept this room because it was in a quiet, re- spectable house, but I have taken my meals at a Restaurant. I have stayed away from every amusement, as you will 'bear   THE STUDENT.         123 me witness, saving all I could for time of need. I mean to board in a club, which will not be very expensive, and if that will not do, I will board myself. I intend to keep school vacations, and if I get behind-hand, I can stay out a little while and earn something, or perhaps find a friend who will lend me some of the needful." "Bravo! Frank, you are a, noble fellow! I confess I've laughed at your nigardliness several times during the past year, and now I beg your pardon. If you can fit for college whilst I've been idling, you will succeed in getting through without trouble," said Harrington. "Well, gentlemen," said Hawes, " we started this evening with the intention of going any length to extricate Frank from the blues, as we called his devotion to study. Now I propose we all give him what we should spend in one evening's entertainment, towards helping him in his edu- cation." It was received with acclamation; and their hilarity and mirth for the remainder of the evening, implied that they were as happy in this expenditure of money as they had ever been in a ride, oyster-supper, concert, or theatre. "Frank is going to leave us soon," said Mr. Mortimer, the senior partner, the next day, to Mr. Adams, the junior in the firm. "I 'm sorry to hear that," replied Mr. Adams; " he's a thorough, trusty, business man; but I've noticed he has grown pale and thin lately, though he persisted in saying he was perfectly well." "It's not because he is sick, that he is going to leave us; there is another reason for his becoming pale: he has been studying all his leisure hours and a greater part of the night, and has prepared himself to enter college next term." "Has the boy saved anything to sustain him?"   124      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. i"Yes, he has laid aside a good share of his salary, as he has lived in a most self-denying manner." I 'll make a proposition to you," said Adams. "Well, let's hear it," said Mortimer. "Any sum that you will appropriate, to aid Frank, I will cover with an equal amount; we will place it in a Savings Bank, in his name, and ett him know of the deposit when he needs it." "Agreed," said Mortimer. Thus a -handsome sum was placed in reserve, whild the young man started, as he supposed, dependent alone upon himself. "You have always been faithful to us," said Mortimer, as he shook Frank heartily by the hand, the day that he left, "and if ever you need any assistance, call on us, and we will see if we can't help you contrive." The tears came into his eyes, his throat became husky, and his only reply-was a warm pressure of the hand of his kind employer. He hurried into the street, absorbed inh his own emotions and plans for the future, regardless of the busy throng which was dbntinually passing him, till he was startled by a salutation in familiar, musical tones, which carried him back to pleasant days, he could hardly tell where, so suddenly and cheerfully did they fall upon his ear. Collecting his facul- ties, he soon recognized the beautiful, laughing face and fairy- like form of Laura Temple. It was a long time since he had  , seen her; for since his disappointment with Delia, his visits at D   had been very infrequent.  "I should hardly have known you, if it had not been for  my peculiar discernment, you look so serious and sorrowful. Has anything happened to you?" said the fair Laura, leaning on the arm of a tall, florid-complexioned gentleman, appa- rently a few years her senior.             "    THE STUDENT.         125 "Nothing but what is painfully pleasant," said Frank; you know the greatest happiness is serious in its manifes- tations." "Then you never saw one happy," said Laura, " and I never want too see you look so again." "I 'm sorry'that it is no more becoming; but if I never saw you happy, I have seen you make others so, by your pleasant face," said Frank, who had not quite lost the beau, in his new character of student. "That sounds like old times," said Laura, " and this speak- ing of old times brings me to ask, why you have been such a rarity in D  lately?" "To enhance my value, of course," said Frank, in his usual careless manner when talking with Laura; " but how long have you been here? It is my turn to question now." "I've been here six weeks, staying at Street, taking music-lessons."  "Really, I was not aware of it. I'll call and see you at your boarding-place, before I leave." "Leave!" said Laura, astonished. "I'll explain this evening, when I call," said Frank, with a graceful bow, as he turned down the next street. "It is past five o'clock, and the stage has not come," said a tall, upright, but spare woman, about forty-five, as she arose and went to the door, then returned to the cleanly-swept kitchen. A tea-kettle was now singing over a small fire of chips, and the fire-board drawn partly in front of it, to keep the heat from the room. The table was spread as though company was expected. A laboring man, about fifty, sat at the window watching, while a large black dog looked up, alternately at his master and mistress, seeming to understand "I   126      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.    ' ' and sympathize with them, and going frequently to the doom and peeping out. A heavy rumbling of wlheels draws them all to the window, and proclaims that the stage has at last arrived. 'Mrs. Atherton hardly breathes as she watches and listens to see if it stops. , "Yes, he's come!" said she. A fine-looking young man, rather pale and thin, leaps out of the stage and embraces his mother.             i "Glad to see you, Frank," said the father, holding out his ! hand. "But I hope you are not sick!" said the mother.      I "Never felt better in my life, I assure you; but you know W the city takes the roses off one's cheeks. If I help father  I with his haying, I shall soon be dun-brown, and pass qua-   I antine anywhere."                        "I hope," continued his anxious mother, "you are as well   as you represent." ,                     l "I see your supper is ready," gaily remarked ]Frank; c'you I used to think if I was too sick to eat, I might be excused from work, when I was a little boy; try me in that way now, and  I see if I am not well enough." The hearty manner in which Frank applied himself to the cold corned-beef, home-made bread, sweet butter, thick, rich custards, and the cup of tea of his mother's own making, was i sufficient to satisfy any one who made a good appetite a cri- i terion of health. "How long shall you stay with us, before you enter col-   lege?" inquired Mrs. Atherton.               i V"Four weeks," replied Frank; c I want a little time to    rest before I begin to study, and it will not do me any harm to help father a little. I'll try and see what vigor I can get out of the fields as well as from your good cooking, while you are fixing up my clothes."                "   THE STUDENT.         127 "You will have rather a dull time, I am afraid; all your old friends are gone," said Mrs. Atherton. "All!" said Frank, looking rather quizzingly; ,then there has been a pretty general turn-out here, for this quiet place." "O, well! I only meant those you used to think most of visiting. Delia Edwards is travelling with Esq. North and his oldest daughter. Helen is at school at B , and Laura Temple at :  ; perhaps you've seen her, though I think when she wrote las, she said she-had not seen you." "Well, go on," said Frank, I shall survive their absence." "O, I do n'; know as anybody else has gone; but you used, when you came home to stay any time, to run there almost the first thing." "But I've had time to-get pretty well weaned; it's a great while since I have been at home long enough to find time to visit anybody but you. I saw Laura, though, yesterday, for the first time." "Did you I I've heard she's got a beau, there; do you know anything about it? I s 'pose you do n't, though, if you saw her only yesterday." 'Yes, I do; as good fortune would have it, I met her with him." "You do n't!" "Yes, I called upon her afterwards, and have a letter for her parents. I asked Laura what she meant by pa- rading that man about the streets. She laughed, in her usual pretty way, and said, 'To show. the citizens I could get, a beau, if my old townsman did neglect me here in this strange place?" "Well," said I,c, and are you going to marry him, to show the people you can get a husband?" "I am sorry you have not improved any," said Laura;   128      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. c( ou are as saucy as ever. Just as though people did not know that before." "If they could not know you could get a beau, how could they know you could get a husband," said I. "O," said Laura, "I am going to have a husband first, and a beau last. I don't believe in making nice speeches "and paying delicate attentions till one is married, and then laying all such agreeable things aside, as they do their Sun- day clothes." "Then I conclude," said I, "that you are married now,-- that's what you mean to say, is it? I thought he appeared attentive enough." "Do you know him," said Laura, growing more thought- ful. "My question first, if you please," said ]. '; Well, then," said she, "of course not.'" "Well, now for your question, - I do know him." "( Laura looked at me so earnestly, as I said this, that I almost felt put upon oath." "I hope,"' said Mrs. Atherton, "that you told her every- thing you knew about him." "I did not tell her any falsehood, mother; but just think how I was situated: from Laura's manner I knew she was attached to him. She comes to me, - an old beau of hers, to inquire this new one's character. Now if I know- anything  A about him that is unfavorable, and I tell her, she may think 1 it is jealousy on my part, and she would not dismiss him a whit the sooner for it. If you tell a lady anything to the dis- advantage of her lover's character, it will only make her love him the more, and despise you; that's all the good you 'll get by it."  "Well, what did you tell her, and what do you know about him that you kept back."   THE STUDENT.        129 "I told her he was a respectable merchant in the city, and a man of some property, I believed, but I was not acquainted with hin." "Now what did you know that you did not tell her?" "I do n't think he's a man of any religious principle, and he is a person of little or no intelligence, - about a third rate man. These things Laura ought to find out herself. But the truth is, she does not care much about them. She'd like them well enough, but then they are non-essentials. If a-man adores her and has plenty of money, and can keep her ' aw braw,' as the Scotch say, she would not be very particular. To pay for telling what I knew, I made her tell me what in- terest she had in him, and she acknowledged to me that she was engaged to him. Then, I assure V,- I was glad I said no more."   CHAPT'ER IX. THE TWO WEDDINGS. FRAxK is sitting with his feet over the mantel-piece, dili- gently poring over his books, for he has now been at -- College several months. A rap at the door diverts his at- tention. "Come in," responds Frank, without rising, and scarcely raising his eyes. A fellow student enters, with a letter in his hand, saying playfully, "Here is a letter for Mr. Francis Atherton; do you know any such person?" "That's my name,' said Frank, eagerly seizing the letter. As his friend withdrew, the seal was hastily broken, and a- glance at the bottom of the third page, as well as the familiar hand-writing, showed it to be from his friend Harrington. As the contents may interest the reader, as well as Frank, we will transcribe it in full. "DEAR FRANK': - If you are now buried in Latin and Greek, just turn from your tiresome labors, and see what is going on among your friends. I do n't know as you think much of us now,-you certainly have not given us much proof of it in black and white, but I forgive you, and proceed with my story. I have been to your quiet home in D----, and made, with others, quite a sensation in the village. I say with others; and who do you think they were? and what do you sup- pose we were about?, I've attended two weddings. The beauties of the village are now " dead in law," and gone; and if -I lived there, I'd hang up cypress. Delia Edwards and Laura Temple, were married in church last week, at D---, and a glorious sight it was! When you used to live in this world as one of us, you used to tell me about these   THE TWO WEDDINGS.       131 girls; but lately you have been as whist as a mouse. I never wish to become learned, if it's going to make me blind to such splendid attractions. Seems to me I see you stop, and hear you exclaim: 'How came you there, Harrington?' I 'll tell you; Chamberlain, the husband of the fair Laura, is a cousin of mine, perhaps you know; and I became ac- quainted with her through him; and so you see, got an invi- tation to the wedding. Laura determined that her wedding should be precisely like Delia's, and so they were both mar- ried at the same time, and then started for their respective homes. I wish you could have, been there! You used to tell me, that Laura was the handsomest, and Delia the wittiest. I do n't see how you found out to which to give the preference. Laura's face, I'll acknowledge, is faultless in features, and her complexion of-pearl and rose,--her bewitching dimples,--little mouth,-and trusting, loving, happy expression, - made her look so attractive, that, when I was looking at her, I thought nothing could excel her, and nothing even equal her, but some one just like her. But when I turned to the majestic Delia, with the color and bloom of a beautiful brunette,--with such elevated dignity of countenance, - and such a soul, looking through those melt- ing black eyes, -I felt she suffered nothing by so close a comparison with Laura, and could have gazed with delight, much longer than was decorous. They were both richly and elegantly dressed. Laura looked like an angel, and Delia like a queen; and I confess I am so earthly, that I like in this lower world, the presence of queens, rather than angels; for I cannot help thinking, that all of the latter, that slip down here, must be fallen. No insinuations against Laura; she's a perfect dove, I know, by her looks. As to Delia, I should think she was more dis- criminating, and probably a girl of more spirit, than Laura; but I should like her all the better for it. You know sugar is none the worse, with a little lemon in it; and I'm certain the acid in her, is not vinegar. Do you know Delia's. hus- band? No, I do n't think you do; for what have you known but your books, this long time? and he does not live about here. He belongs to New York. He's a 'splendid fellow,' I suppose the girls would say, but a high blade, I know, by his looks. Delia loves him devotedly, I know; and it is   132      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. difficult to see, under existing circumstances, how she can help it. He is a complete man of the world-a gentleman, so far as externals go,-- perfectly fascinating in his manner. His attentions to the bride are so delicate, graceful, and well- timed, that he would deceive the 'very elect,' as he has. Delia evidently thinks him the very embodiment of excel- lence, and it is not strange, for she has not mingled enough with the fashionable world, to understand such an adept as he is. Chester, for that is his name, is an orphan. His parents were devoted members of the Episcopalian Church. Young Chester was therefore educated in all the external and internal graces, and they died, leaving him with a large fortune, a pretty good knowledge of the doctrines and duties of the church, with which to help him along in this world, and to obtain an entrance into the other. His fortune, I ex- pect, he has taken good care to enjoy; but his religious instructions will probably' lie buried long in dust,' if they ever bring forth fruit. I expect there will be a perfect rivalry between Delia and Laura, or, rather Laura will con- tinually be striving to equal the splenidor Qo Delia's establish- ment, which it will be hard for her to do, with Chamberlain's property. And this reconciles me to the fact, that I am not the husband of Laura. I really do feel vexed, that Delia has got no better husband. I do think I could have done better for her myself. If this news makes such a commo- tion in your breast, as it has done in mine, this letter will not help you along in your studies, and you will wish I had not intruded it upon you. But I suppose you are so buried in the dead languages, that you will hardly be susceptible to such influences; so, wishing you present success in your studies, and future promotion, I will bid you good-bye for this time.     Your affectionate friend, HARRINGTON." Frank sat a few moments, absorbed m thought. Delia had been as good as married, as far as he was concerned, long ago, at least, so he had fancied, before he received this letter. But now a momentary pang shot through his heart, and he said to himself, "it's all over," with Something of the sure   THE TWO WEDDINGS.        133 prise and sorrow with which we utter this exclamationi when turning from the death-bed of some dear friend, whom reason has long given over, but for whom we find hope has secretly lurked around, till the last sad moment. "  Well," said Frank, taking up his books energetically, "I hope I shall not die till I see the day when Delia will be proud to honor me, as rich as she is!" So saying, he resumed his studies with an accelerated im- pulse, - the very difficulties under which he labored, giving -    zest to his efforts. Delia accompanied her husband to New-York,-just glanced at his elegant residence in the city, and rode round in the vicinity of the stores and wharves which his father left him, and which he proudly pointed out to her, without mentioning the heavy incumbrances upon them, - received the congrat- ulations of his friends, -and started on a tour in Europe. Mr. and Mrs. Chamberlain returned to B ,and took lodgings for a short time; but Laura was anxious for a home of their own, and one which should be near her friend; con- sequently, about a year after her marriage, she persuaded her husband to remove to New York. Mr. Chester's paternal mansion was rented during his travels, but Laura's ingenuity found a way by which she could obtain a view of what she supposed would be the future home of Delia, and thus ascertained the probable manner in which her friend would be situated upon her return. She expected it would be newly furnished, but she thought she could easily make allowance for that, if she could only have a view of the plan and finish of the house, and she deter- mined for once to gratify the desire of her heart, and possess a  home full as elegant as that which Delia would occupy, on her return. It was the hope of doing this, which made her willingly forego the pleasures of a bridal tour. Chamber- 1    12     U I    I -iN UUAlIX 11 b k, lain loved to see his beautiful wife happy, and to keep that j fair brow smooth, and her countenance joyous; he gratified  her wishes in taking a house a little better, in some respects,  than that of Chester's. Laura was really happy while en-  gaged in gratifying her taste for the beautiful in furnishing it E1 to her mind.  "There!" said she to her husband, as, he returned from  his business on the evening of the day in which she had fin-  ished the preparation for house-keeping; " is it not elegant?" i "It certainly is, my dear," answered Chamberlain.; "I hope it is just to your mind."  "O, yes; I don't wish for anything more convenient,  healthy, elegant, or beautiful. Delia can never make her old-  fashioned house equal to this, if she comes home loaded with foreign fashions and furniture. See, here is my kitchen, so  nice!" and she exhibited closets neatly arranged with dishes, :i  tins, and other culinary utensils, so bright and new as to make one almost desire to commence the work. It hardly seemed   ! as though labor was a part of the curse, so inviting did it ap-  pear under her arrangement. "And here is my dining-room,  ; so near the kitchen. See how pretty the entrance from the lower hall, while there is another door communicating with the kitchen. The table was spread with a nice damask table- ... . cloth, the plates and cups of white china, the bright tea-pot,  smoking with the delicious beverage, dry toast and preserve, vA the latter of Laura's own making, and the little napkins be- side each plate invited them to partake of their first-evening repast, in their own hired house. "'We will stop here and ? take a little refreshment," said Laura gaily, "for your jour. ney is a long one, - I intend you shall survey the whole house, before it is dirty or soiled in the least." The ample mirror reflected a scene of connubial happiness, as they sat down to partake of it. Who that has exchanged lodgings for the snug   THE TWO WEDDINGS.       135 * omforts of one's own domicil, cannot sympathize with them va their joy? Laura's beautiful eyes sparkled with unusual delight, as they adjourned from the dining-room to the parlor. Her taste was as exquisite as her person, and with more ref- erence to the beautiful than the costly, her parlors had been furnished. There was such a simple elegance, such a blend- ing of light and shade, that the effect was bewitching, you hardly knew why. A more fashionale belle could have seen that some of the articles were not the most costly and rare, and therefore would have rejected them, and Laura a few years hence will wonder she could not have seen it. But now in her simplicity she cannot understand that the price and the difficulty of obtaining an article are essential to its beauty. "And here," said she, opening a door that led out of the back parlor into a small room, prettily carpeted, where a rack of books, a small lounge, two stuffed rocking-chairs and a few others without rockers, and a table upon which stood a boquet of flowers, gave it a very inviting appearance. , Here is my library and sitting-room,--how snug and cozy; is it not? but you must not sit down here yet," said she pleasantly, as she noticed -her husband about to take a seat and enjoy the happiness the room seemed to promise, "you may rest here after you have explored farther;' and the happy wife as- cended another flight of stairs, and pointed with pride to her bathing and dressing rooms and sleeping apartments. "There are spare rooms in abundance, on this and the next floor," said she, as she opened the doors and disclosed the neat carpets, pretty chamber furniture, and nice beds covered with white counterpanes. Chamberlain, who had gone to the outside of his means to gratify his wife, rejoiced that he; ad succeeded. Laura had spent so much in furnishing her house' that she could afford to employ only one servant, and she cOil'-f : sidered herself happy in being able to have that one. Her :; r '--a   186       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. health was good and she was well skilled in domestic affairs Under her supervision, the house was well regulated; and if she, or we, could look no farther, she might be considered a happy woman. "The Pearl has arrived," said Mr. Chamberlain, a few weeks after thd^r had commenced housekeeping. "iRun over the list of passengers quickly, and see if Delia and her husband are among them," said Laura. "Yes, here they are,-- r. and Mrs. Chester: they have taken rooms at the -- ." i, We will go and call upon them to-morrow," said Cham- berlain. Delia had visited the Tuileries, wandered through the crowded streets of London, enjoyed the sunny skies of Italy, viewed the snowy Alps, trod the Emerald Isle, and lingered in the vale of Avoca, of which Moore writes, There's not in the wide world a valley so sweet As the vale in whose bosom the bright waters meet. And she, had also experienced, that which she had once con- sidered impossible, but which Stephen had assured her was so easy: she had found the object of her affections a slave to habits which filled her with alarm, and gave her days and nights of anxiety; but her affection was not destroyed. She could say, with Moore, I know not what- love's good for if 'tis not the same Tlhrough joy and through torment, through glory and shame; I know not, I ask not, if guilt's in thy heart,-  I knbw that I love thee, whatever thou art. / )Delia had no intimation of Laura's intention to remove to -Nw 'York, till she was surprised by a call from her at her lodgings. It was with feelings of pride and satisfaction that   THE TWO WEDDINGs. Laura invited Delia to return the call, and she enoyed t surprise which Delia man   adthe' M d dshe enjoyed th surprise which Delia manifested and the dmiration which sh expressed, as she took her about her neat and eleant hou beautif  Deli little thought I should ever live in such e house " said Laura to her h usband that evenin Bather different was to. Rather differen t was the convertion o Mrs. Chester ,nd her husband.   "Has that .tupid Chamber   ai   n rll o ingto said Mr. Chester to his wife d In        th e  street. They really lo ok prettily sebleo. S le and          Prettisly- Ish e ablewto rl ooto    lan 1i; and oope you aY e not going to the intim ate with his wife,  If I   h  ae n  i  tpr- ca  t he  y c,i a ee r kep  h   ever had any idea they were going to live here, I would not have consented to have dealer miecti toe samestime. To think of a petty retail "dealer expecting to asseociate  ith onewho is Sependent  Delia, you can 't do such a thing ere;-treat them el pri-wl vately, but be careful how much you encourage their friend- ship. They can never keep up ith us, it will be their ruin, versation once, she had now too long mngled it  the world. not to have her sensibilities blunted to such things. She was trying to rise.  Excelsior in the fa hshionable Sohe was her motto, and she must have enough regard to her own preser- vation not to do anything which would pieventit, Laurwas trying to keep pace with her, and Delia Was trying to so- ciate with the millionaires. The house where Chest had resided, did not accord with  ste', ^hacl been by hBea utifl r    esideneshe had seen abroad. 12'   138      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. It therefore remained tenanted as before, while a more spa- cious and elegant one was taken, in the most fashionable part of the city. It was a pleasant day in winter, that Laura sat out to call upon Delia at her own residence. The sun shone upon the frozen snow, making its atoms sparkle more brilliantly than the most costly diamonds. The sharp air heightened the color upon her cheek, as she took her lon gand healthy walk. Cautiously did she look at the different streets, and then at the direction in her hand; " 25,-here is the NO., but this cannot be the place," said she, as she stopped before the princely mansion, and ascended a long flight of white marble steps. "Yes, it is; or some one else of the same name lives here," said she, as she read Chester upon the door; and her heart sunk within her, as she rang the bell. A spruce colored waiter, with a brown linen apron, came to the door. To the inquiry if Mrs. Chester was at home, she received an affirm- ative reply, and was conducted through a spacious hall, - adorned with pictures of landscapes and family portraits, furnished with tables, chairs and lounges of exquisite work- manship,-to the parlors, the magnificence of which,- ex- ceeded any of her previous conceptions. The soft Wilton carpet bent under the presure of her delicate foot, while its beauty caught her eye, and seemed to plead in silent elo- quence to be exempted from the base doom of being trodden upon; and surely if any carpet could claim exemption, this could. Upon a ground of white, baskets of the most beauti- ful and delicate flowers seemed to have been overturned, in exquisite confusion. Laura almost felt, as she entered, that she was crushing a lily of the valley, or defacing the roses and peonies, which bloomed beside their more delicate neighbor. Two mirrors, exactly opposite, reached nearly  ! from the ceiling to the floor. These mirrors were surmounted   jHE TWO WEDDINGS. at the top with carved and gilded work, in the shape of a vin. with clusters of grapes, which extended to the sides of th room, forming supports for the elegant damask and muslit , "curtains, which screened the windows.  Todamask chande liersof Astrais, from which depended a shower of brilliants, er uspended from the ceiling r   edrosth c  eling, and reflected twice in the ample mirror X      .reposed i on  ofa caschoice books, in elegant bindings, reposed in a case of rosewood. Chairs of damask, and, lounges    t    c   -of rosewood and holder to sit in t   he same lateria I    e  a d a s ,onso thesame material, invited the be- holder to sit in this luxuyious place. Costlypicturesfrom J  ^ly, in splendid fee fiB *q Italy, in splendid frames graced the walls, and several ex- qisite specimens of sculpture, from the sam etr   -      ported purposely for them, wer e adly more than glanc, at, before the singing of brd t tracted her ae   e lowero part of the opposit e  a   ttentio to the be thrw p        , tin mid winte5 and through themould eseenthelittle room of glass beyond,in wich ere placed a choice collection of birds and flowers which by the heat were preserved, and gave the effect of spng and  heat during the gloomy months of winter. F    enclod sumer of glass, the spacious yard, gay w  ith flowers, s aclrcessi- ble in summer; but now the Windows, hih formad its sides, were closely fastened, and unless when robed in  es, the choice trees and plants which it ca   jewels, objects of curiosity or, admiratio contained, w  .t Laura had hardly taken a surve on.  threw her own i  nto  a. s e o. the parlors, which so tri nig dress, inte in , ween Delihb a entered, in a loose silk- mo rnin gress, in elekantdishabille. She looked'angaia toa troubled, but kissg Laura, expressed hrself surprised to see he look so fresh and healthy. actualpresee efforts entirely disconcerted Laura. She could not rally . Aftermaki ng a short call, and talking, she hardly new hnr.   "O      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. upon various subjects, for whichi she had no interest, she rosf to leave. "Stop, a moment; I have a little treasure, that I have not shown you yet," said Delia. "( I suppose she's going to vex me with some more of her fineries," thought- Laura, as she followed her friend to the nursery, where, in a. cradle of rosewood, lay a beautiful babe, dressed in the finest cambric and lace. Little Ella seemed to have combined the beauties and graces of both father and mother, and waking soon after they entered, displayed her- self to the full satisfaction of nurse and mamma. Laura, whose mind was absorbed in her disappointment and envy, found it hard to compose herself sufficiently to enjoy the young stranger's society, and after exhausting her small stock of praises, again proposed to leave. "I've just ordered the carriage, to take me out, and you shall ride home, if you will wait," said Delia. ,' Carriage!" thought Laura, as she sank down again into the richly stuffed rocking-chair, and waited its arrival; " ghat have n't you got? How kind is fortune to you; how cruel to me!," It was difficult, to compose herself, so that Delia should not discover the workings of her mind. In a few moments, which to Laura seemed like hours, the elegant carriage, and noble-spirited horses, appeared at the door, and Laura was soon set down at her own house, no better satisfied with it, than she had been with the farm- house, after seeing the alterations which Delia had made in her father's residence. This last triumphant display seemed to her the finishing stroke, and she entered, what she now considered, her humble hjome, with feelings better imagined than described. She threw herself upon the lounge, in her own room, and buried I her faco in her hands. She was really ill.   STHE TWO WEDDINGS. s "l^ I       ^atis the matter, mydear," sai Chambl ter asihe culd not adinner, and found Laura in a state whic he could not understand.          a state whic "N'othing, only my head aches a littls,'saic Laura, iau tone of despairing taciturnity.     s   S   a "Ilas anything happened to distress you ;" "Nothing, in particular1:" "What have you been doing? "Nothing, that amounts to anything,sad Laura, in the same forbidding manner.  "Have you been out anywhere, to-lay? persisted Chm- "Yes, I took a walk." " "Well, where did you go? Did you go to Chesters?" said he, as le noticed she hesitated. "Yes, I stopped there." "Well, what is the matter ; witraincen. Laura was ashamed to tell, and remained silet. Was n' t she ad to see you? "S She said ste was, and kissed me as she used todo; bu the evrtigis above me, and I suppose sh think   s as  muc" of Xne as she can, when she' I ot so much teo tink  e  Nec "t; Ihm not,"said Laura, who nom pe ,i^  e fa oose full of  s  ervants; has not h t o band to i t- t  orgie fher  Idb  een  119 to ted, sace herin hreturn.                       ,  ,  Frgive me forbeing so ngrateful, so silly He did forgive her, he said; but it was plainIv seen h;,   CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. lings were deeply wounded.  The dinner he had with ah care ordered, was eaten very sparingly by both, and stly in silence. Chamberlain soon after left the house, meditating deeply ,on the most rapid way of accumulating the means to atify the ambition of his wife. ^                        I^ ^   CHAPTER X. A PEEP AT MRS. CHESTER. O ! could we do with this world of ours, As thou dost with thy garden bowers,- Reject the weeds and keep the flowers,- What a heaven on earth we 'd make it.-Moore. ON the same day that Mr. and Mrs. Chamberlain dined in such uncomfortable silence, though at a later and more fash- ionable hour, Mr. and Mrs. Chester and the fair-haired sis- ter Agusta were seated in an elegant dining-room, where a table, spread with the richest damask, cut glass, plate, and china, invited to a repast of fish, fowl, jellies, etc. " You are very fortunate in your cook,"' said Agusta, passing her plate for a second piece of nicely-browned duck. "Very unfortunate, you might have said," replied Delia; these servants are the vexation of my life. I've had three cooks, in the short time I have kept house ; and I must part with this one, - it has vexed me all the morning." "What's the matter with Bridget,' said Chester. " she ? an admirable cook, and I would n't mind trifles." " Trifles!" repeated Delia, " I'I leave it to you if I have sent away any of them for trifling reasons, or am going to do so now. The first, you remember, was an excellent cook, but she drank so that I could not place any dependence upon her. The second knew nothing about her business, and spoiled every dinner she attempted to prepare. This last under- stands cooking well, I know, and is worth everythi f::tbt but I find the creature has been supporting her siste'f^  "4      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. from the best provision in my store-room. You would n't be- lieve it: they have lived upon us better than we could afford to do, every day; and you know we live well enough." "You must lock up the store-room and only take out what she absolutely needs." "I 've done that for a few days past, and the old thing has kept me running up and down these long flights of stairs, to her heart's content. It's a piece of slavery I can't endure." "Would it not be better to take out all the things at once, and that before you go up stairs?" "Yes, that sounds well, and seems practicable; but I wish you could see how it works. I leave out all the butter, for instance, that I think she ought to use; she wants more, by the time the dinner comes from market. I ask her what has become of it, and she has forty plausible excuses: it got all used up for the servants' breakfast, or it's gone somehpw,-- and she is as innocent as a lamb! And of course more must be given out, for the dinner must be cooked. The salt and pep- per, in moderate quantities, you know I keep in the kitchen; and if I ask her in the morning if she has a plenty of these, she always answers yes, but she's sure tofind out it's a mis- take, when-I'm up stairs; and down I must go, again. When she gets her articles, and I think it's all over,Ait is just dis- covered that a little of something else is wanting, - there was not quite enough left out, or it got thrown away, or some other excuse. It's a slave's life to lock up everything ; and if we do-n't, it's ruin."  "Send some of the other servants." "I can't trust them, because she'll tell them she needs quantities of things which she does not, and they 'll11 give them to her to keep her quiet; and some of them, I suspect, are in- terested in her depredations. I sent the nurse to get some things for Ella's drink, and the cook made her hand out things ,                   . -        .              ,   A PEEP AT MRS. CHESTER.      14B enough to pay for having been kept away from the store- room for a long time." " Well, send her away and get another." " Yes," said Delia with a long sigh, but it is so trying to change, and perhaps there will be no end to my mortifications and the trouble of looking up another. It seems like a moun- tain to me." " I '11 go out and help you, sister, if you would like to have me," said Agusta. "Thank you; then we'll go to-morrow morning, for Bridget's time is out soon, and we must be expeditious." Another was obtained, whose character for honesty and professional qualities was well attested, 'Who was, as soon as possible, installed in the place of her predecessor. The ex- cellent breakfasts, dinners, etc., she prepared, showed she was perfect mistress of the culinary art; but, alas! she had the temper of a virago, and created a disturbance among all the other servants. Delia, like man-y fashionable mothers, did not give to her child that nourishment which Nature pro- vides, and a wet-nurse supplied the deficiency. The nurse was attached to the child and the child to the nurse, and seemed to do well. Of course it was desirable to keep her, on the child's account. The nurse knew how necessary she was to the family, and grew important and demanding. Delia bore, daily, from her, what she would not have suffered, an hour, had it not been for Ella. The cook quarrelled with the nurse, who declared she would not stay in the house if the cook remained.    The cook, of course, was obliged to leave, while every one wishdit was possible to dispense with her competitor. : The chamber-maid  was a  pleasant girl, and managed to go between all the  les   and corners of the ok and nurse; but she was as easy about her work, as she was mxi d   "6      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. in her temper. -Delia, who would herself have been satisfied with a dinner of' herbs, could not endure such slackness. She had been brought up in neatness at home, and it was out of ' the question for her to have her house in disorder. Hence the trouble. She who gives up all her work to servants, be- cause she wants a life of ease, must not have eyes or ears, if she expects to obtain it.          / "What's the matter with my queen?" said Mr. Chester,  ! a few evenings after the exchange of cook and chambermaid,  as he glided softly into Delia's room, and found her in a state i of dejection entirely discordant with the comfortable and luxurious appearance of everything around. "I never wish to be a queen, or govern a kingdom, if the discord in my little realm is a specimen," replied Mrs. Ches- ter. A diadem, under such circumstances, would be to me a crown of thorns," "What's the trouble? I hope you find your humble ser- vant a faithful prime minister, and will immediately inform me if any petty officers are insubordinate."        t "O, these servants!" replied Delia, with a face of woeful length; " a lord could not be a greater tyrant than they can d be,-it is impossible to do without them, and they know it, so we must bear it! The new chambermaid is pretty thorough about her work, the best I've had, but she's as spirited as  the old cook, and most of the time at variance with the rest V of the servants. If I keep her, I am afraid I shall lose some X of the others, and if I get a new one, I do n't know as things  will be mended on the whole. The new cook understands     her business tolerably, but she has such consequential airs, that I cannot endure to see her, and she has just informed me, that her ladyship cannot assist in washing I I've had a seamstress come to-day, and she feels above the cook and chambermaid, if an-d is not willing to take her meals in the kitchen, but says C r    A PEEP AT MRS. CHESTER.    .  147 she must have a portion sent up with the nurse. The cook and chambermaid can't eat with the waiter because he is colored, and so I have to set three tables for my help!-" "Change, and get a white waiter, and that will demolish one table at a blow!" said Chester. "Yes, but I would rather keep him, and have a separate table, than run the risk of getting another as good, who is white: John is one of the best servants in the house. As fast as trouble is healed in one corner, it breaks out in an- other. Things are broken and torn that would have lasted a life-time at Mother's, with her careful usage. Besides the first cost of such an establishment and the expense of sus- taining it, if everything was done properly, the wear and tear is almost enough to support a small family who would do their own work. It is wicked to waste the bounties of Providence so; and yet if I were to take any energetic means to pre- vent it, I could not, do anything else. O! those who live in a snug way, know nothing of the vexations attendant upon such a house as this!" "You must have a house-keeper, my dear, and relieve yourself from these burdens, and then all these difficulties will be obviated: I wonder I have never thought of it before." "But think of the expense;' replied Delia. "I think of no expense, which will add to my wife's com- fort," replied Mr. Chester. Mrs. McGuire was saying to-day, in my hearing, that she knew an excellent woman who wanted to obtain a situation as a house-keeper, and we will go at once and secure her. I've been thinking of calling there with you; it is time we went before, so get ready and I 'll order the car- riage." Comforted by the tenderness and attention of her husband, Mrs. Chester dismissed her anxious thoughts, and cast an eye of pride at her elegant abode, as she left it to visit, alas!   "8      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. one which, in spite of all her endeavors and expense, threw  her own into the shade.  "Is n't it wicked," said she to her husband, as she returned from Mrs. McGuire's, " is n't it wicked to live in such extrava- gant. style?"  "We must leave that for them to settle," said Mr. Chester. 1 "I thought when I went out, that we lived well enough for  anybody, but it really puts my house to the blush to go to : Mrs. McGuire's."                     i -; , If she was the only one who lived in a style above us, we could get along very easily," responded her husband.  "So I was thinking; I know they have things far above us  in old, aristocratic countries; but in this republican land, one likes to have things on an equality with his neighbors."  i(t "The McGuires will have an opportunity to blush next,": said Agusta, the sister-of Mr. Chester; "I have just been to : call upon Miss Van Vecton, and she showed me a new silk  77, dress that did not cost but nine dollars per yard!"    p "'You stretched that story, Agusta," said Delia. ,:i "Not a bit; and her mother is going to have her parlors newly furnished with articles imported purposely for her, of  a most unique pattern, different from anything in the city. 4 The new dress and the new furniture are both for the samei : occasion." ' And what may that occasion be?"         -  ' "The grand party to introduce her son's bride."     i; "What! William? is he going to be married, at last?  kn I've heard of bestowing more abundant honor upon things  i  that lacked, before now; and on that principle I suppose it is i right for them to make this parade. ,But I can tell them, this ,  splendor will only make darkness more visible."  "But why do n't you ask who he's going to marry?" said Agusta, looking quizzingly.   -  -- '             A PEEP AT MRS. CHESTER.      149 "Why should I? you know I am' not particularly acquainted with the young ladies: it's impossible for me to guess." " But you know the bride-elect, very well." "I! you must be mistaken." "No, you knew her before I did." "Somebody that you and I both know! you puzzle me." "Strange you can't guess, - Lizzy North." Delia felt faint. "How can Lizzy marry such a simpleton!" she exclaimed. "Slie is very pretty; and one would not suppose she was such a drug in the market, as to be obliged to take up with him." "Yes, she is pretty,--that's why he likes her, and she takes him for his money, for she has no more heart than this marble fire-place; all she wants in a husband is, to provide her the means to show off." "I thought she was going to marry a rich bachelor, that visited there a good deal." "She tried hard enough, I know, but could n't make it out." A dagger plunged in Delia's breast, could not more surely have given pain than this information. It was a terrible blow to her: Miss North was now in a- position above her, and Lizzy could do her immense mischief, by spreading among the circle of her acquaintance the story of her former humble days, and the horrible fact that she once worked for a living. She knew Lizzy well enough to know she had little to hope for from her; and the probability was, that her friendship would be received in something the same manner that Laura's was by herself. "I shall," said she to herself, " be noticed privately, but neglected when she has any distinguished friends around her; I doubt even if I shall have an invitation to the wedding- party.          13*   150      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. In this particular, Delia was mistaken. Lizzy, alias Mrs. William Van Vecton, would not have had Delia absent on this occasion for anything. It would have spoiled the pleas- ure of the whole evening, if she could not have had her rival friend witness her triumphant display. Lizzy, ever pretty, looked on this occasion more beautiful than ever. Hier small ! but elegant figure was attired in a rich dress of white satin, the flounce-of which, at intervals, was caught up in festoons H and fastened with diamonds; her beautifill neck was encircled ! with the same costly gems ; and her pretty face of lily and rose peeped forth from her beautiful brown hair studded  ! with jewels. Her long veil seemed to envelop her as a mist. who The house was furnished entirely in the Oriental style; and when once within the splendid mansion, it was difficult for the beholder to realize that he was not on another continent.  i The entertainment was sumptuous; and wit, learning, beauty, and grace were congregated to celebrate the nuptials. Mr.  y Van Vecton, the father of the groom, had been a rich East- l India merchant, and was now the retired possessor of many millions; and though a very close man in details, rejoiced inll  making great parade, and in the fact that he was able to outdo^-: most of his acquaintance. The time was approaching when Delia felt she was called H upon to reciprocate the attentions shown to herself; and now tX that her friend was to be welcomed by a series of parties, it H could hardly be delayed any longer. But " what can he do  I who cometh after the king?" This question haunted her    continually, as. she walked through the crowded rooms, and gazed at the triumphs of money and art. It haunted her sleeping-hours. She could not avoid a like return of civili- ties. To give a less-brilliant entertainment than her friend, i seemed insupportable; and to equal her, seemed a wicked extravagance.                     A PEEP AT MRS. CHESTER.       i "It will be our turn next, Delia," said Chester to his wife, as she was sitting in her richly furnished parlor, gazing in- tently upon, the bright and burning coals in the grate, medi- tating upon this unfortunate dilemma. "Yes, I know it," replied Delia; " but I have no heart to undertake, after such a brilliant display." "Better come after her, than before her," said Chester; "fobr now you have an opportunity to excel her." "Yes, but what a waste of money for a very foolish object," sighed Delia. "I felt last Sabbath, when I heard our min- ister preach a charity sermon, that I wished I had more to give; but our family is getting so expensive, and we have so many ways for money, I really felt poor, and thought it was time to retrench somewhere, though I confess I could not tell where. Now to think of spending so much to equal Lizzy, which might do so much good! The parties we have attended before, were sufficiently brilliant to satisfy any one, and as expensive as we ought to give." "I do n't wish to interfere with your charities, Delia," said her husband, in his usual winning tone; " for you have prop- erty of you own, and can control these things; but I do think you are a little too conscientious about such matters; you have a  duty to perform to your own family, as well as to the poor and heathen. Recollect this will be the first time, and will be considered a specimen of your taste and knowl- edge of the world." Chester had touched the right string. Her former lowly estate seemed an imperative reason for an extra display, and she reluctantly consented to carry out the plan her husband proposed, which was not only unique, but exquisitely magni- ficent and beautiful. "I see now," said Delia, with a deep sigh, as she entered her luxurious sleeping apartment, "a person may be poor,   152      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. if he is worth a million. I have comforts enough to gratify me, and yet I cannot feel easy because of my desire to satisfy the wants of the poor below me, and the claims of ambition, which are excited by those above me. I never felt the ne- cessity of money more than now."              Till all the preparations for this pageant were completed,  Delia's Yankee ingenuity was busy, night and day, in con- i triving how she could make the most show, with the least  money. In her poorer days, she never made a greater effort  to make a dollar bring its full equivalent, than she now did. ! X Delia had the good sense to avoid imitation entirely, and with  the help of excellent taste, and more money than her con- science approved, was enabled to make a brilliant, and even bewitching display, and escaped all invidious comparison, by : its total dissimilarity.       .-          :  "Delia, I should think you were a fairy," said Agusta, as I: she came in, a few hours before it was time for the guests to assemble. "You must have a wand somewhere, to turn plain  things into beautiful. I should not know the place! How perfectly bewitching everything looks throughout the house." : "I am glad you like the looks,"' said Delia, sitting down :?i and playing with the heavy fringe of the curtains in the j ) library. "I shall be heartily glad when it is over."   ; : At this moment the door opened softly, and the waiter i:  thrust in his head. "If you please," said he, "Mrs. King- i .! man is in the drawing-room, and wuld like to see you." -i "Tell her I 'm engaged, John."  John returned after a moment'a absence, saying, Mrs. K. would not disturb her but a moment, but wished she might be permitted to speak with her.'" \           I Mrs. Chester reluctantly went down. There sat a plainly 1 X dressed lady, a member of the church with which Delia worshipped, looking intently, and with apparent deight, at i   A PEEP AT MRS. CHESTER.      153 the beautiful display before her. Seeing Delia, she rose and said, rather abruptly: "I'm sorry to disturb you; but I was appointed (by our church) collector for Foreign Missions. I have been out on this business several afternoons, and called upon all, I believe, but you. I live so far from you, that I hope you will pardon me, if I trouble you just to give me your signature to-day, as it would save me another lon, walk." Here Mrs; Kingman held out the subscription paper. Delia felt tried. She could not give anything now, and to refuse, was out of the question. "Really, Mrs. Kingman," said Delia, calling her wits rather than strict truth, to her aid, , those who have any prop- erty, have so many calls daily, that it is not strange they should be out of money, sometimes. I intend to give, of course, to that object; it is a cause that every Christian must love; but I do not think I shall put my name down on any paper. I should wish to affix a handsome sum -beside my name, as it would be expected of me; but if I meet all the calls that daily come upon me, it will be impossible." Delia's conscience here gave her an unceremonious twinge, as it reminded her that most of the ealls that she had an-. swered lately, had been the calls of vanity. Mrs. Kingman looked at the rooms, but said nothing. Mrs. Chester under- stood the look, and continued: "If I  should put my name down, I should set a very bad example to those who have not so many calls. They would say, without understanding my position, if she gives so little, I  may give much less. Be assured, Mrs. Kingman," said Delia, rising to show she was in haste, " I shall not forget so good an object." Mrs. Kingman understood the movement, and withdrew;- but her parting look reminded Delia of Mrs. Pinkney, and   154      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. brought to remembrance the counsels of Aunt Dorothy. Con- [ science, armed, as it were, with scorpion stings, tormented her as she reascended the stairs, and commenced making her toilet preparations for the evening.   . "O, what an aching heart is often concealed under a   splendid exterior," said Delia, as she gazed fat her stately !: figure, richly dressed for the occasion, as it was reflected at I: full length in the large mirror. "Those jewels, lace, and brocade! said conscience.  "I cannot help it," said Delia, with a long sigh; "these  parties are necessary evils, and if we have them, we must  prepare for them."  "But you have robbed God," said conscience; " you could  have entertained your friends, without taking the, tithes which belonged to him." "I do not approve of this expenditure," again she an-  Swered; "but I am so situated, it is necessary now. IThe  Lord pardon thy servant in this thing.' I hope to be able to retrench in future." "Be not conformed to this world," retorted conscience. "I do not mean to be, any more than I can help," said Delia; " circumstancet that I could not control, have obliged iJde me to do this. I must regard my husband's wishes about  these things, if I would have an influence over him; and I i% can't ask for money for charitable purposes, when he has been ! expending so much." ^                  :! "Who placed you in these circumstances, but He who said, 'Bring all your tithes into the store-house?'" again thundered conscience. "Who placed you here, but He who has said, 4 Deny thyself, and take up thy cross and follow me?' Your foolish vanity has not only withheld what you  ought to have given in charity, but has given the sanction of' a professed friend of Christ to this robbery; and thus you   A PEEP AT MRS. CHESTER.      155 have, by your example, robbed 'Christ of-that which others ought to give, who will feel obliged to spend the same in keeping pace with your extravagance." "Go thy way for this time," said Delia, as the ringing of the door-bell reminded her that her company:had begun to assemble, and a cheerful countenance must be assumed. Mr. Van Vecton's servants had been dressed in Turkish uniform.  Mr. Chester's were all dressed throughout in Chinese costume; and the appearance of the head-waiter at the door, dressed in a blue silk robe, open in front, and faced with ermine, his white pants, his curious shoes, gave the guests at the threshold, some faint idea of the magnifi- cence that awaited them. ,         .   CHAPTER XI.               ! THE MNISTER AND THE BACHELOR.   f WE will now return to Helen, whom we, left pursuing her studies at the celebrated school of Madame B . While   : there, Helen became acquainted with Edwin Morse, a theo- .  logical student of much promise, but whose wealth consisted j mostly in his character and abilities. Mrs. Edwars$ rather : opposed Helen's encouraging his addresses, on account of his X poverty. "Morse is a fine man, I know," said she," but he is poor, and so are you; and if you marry a minister, you  must always remain so."                 r,'  "What better than that shall I do, if I don't' replied i Helen. -    ' "You might marry a man of property, as Laura has done." "Yes, and I might not," said Helen. "I have always worked hard, and I always expect to do it,--it is my destiny. I had rather work for him, than for any man in the world, poor or rich." "That sounds well, now," said Mrs. Edwards, " but you will soon find out your mistake. Young, romantic follks think they can live on love. Before long, they learn they must have food and raiment; and the worriment of mind which proceeds from poverty, and seeing their friends in better cir- ip cumstances than themselves, has no tendency to increase do- mestic happiness." "But, mother," says Helen, "I think a distinction should be [! made between a poor man who has the talent and ability to earn his living, and a person who is naturally inefficient, inca-   THE MNISTER AND THE BACHELOR.     157 pable, or lazy. Mr. Morse has finished his education, is acknowl- edged a man of talent, has a call to settle in K , no mean town, with a small but comfortable salary. He needs a wife who is accustomed to work ; and economizing, you know, has been my business all my life-time. The station is good enough for me, if I am only good enough for that. My objections would not be to him, or his pecuniary affairs, but on account of my own deficiency in other respects." As is usual where there is any opposition, the lovers were invincible, and Helen entered that delightful and vexatious, exalted and lowly,-- in short, that situation in which all para- doxes centre,--the wife of a poor minister. A visit to De- lia formed the wedding-tour. Helen would not have been human, if she had been indifferent -to the elegances of Delia's establishment, or free from the natural desire for wealth. But she was not affected by it as Laura was, because she was under the control of other influences, which overpowered those desires, and would have prevented the envy that Laura felt, even though she had been no better. But though Helen was no better naturally, grace had made a difference. The trial of seeing Delia in better circumstances than herself, had been met before, and settled. As bitter as it was, it was a certainty to which she must submit. She submitted to it, as to God who ordered it, and of course was sustained under it. When she met Delia in her delightful home, there was no feeling of disappointment mingled with her admiring surprise. She enjoyed it without a continual struggle of envious feelings; and besides, she was under the influence of love, - a passion as strong as envy. Before, she had looked at Delia's pros- perity, and mourned over the difference ill her situation alone; now, she had sympathy from one who was dear to her, and as yet she had met with no difficulties arising from the choice of a poor husband ; and if she had, his increased value, en- "   i i 158      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFER E hanced by opposition, would have counterbalanced it. Then,  too, everything was hopelessly above her at her sister's. She could never expect anything equal to it, and so she escaped the vexations of one who had endeavored to vie with her, but had been disappointed. Helen saw the trials of Delia, as i Laura did not; and-she rejoiced that if she could not have the same elegances, she had no prospect of the same troubles. It was a situation to which she was not accustomed, and she ! :t longed to be free from the restraints of formality, and enter  upon the duties of her own quiet home.           H. Mrs. Edwards went over to the parsonage, and arranged   : everything as she only knew how, for their reception. It was an old-fashioned two-story white house, with sitting-room and a parlor in front and on each side of the hall, a dining-room X back of the entry, and kitchen in the rear. Helen's furniture was mostly the result of her own earnings, and doubly valued on that account. Delia added some articles of elegance as wedding-presents, and the house newly papered and painted, looked really pretty and inviting. "All my furniture is not as expensive as the decorations E  of one of Delia's parlors," said Helen with some satisfaction, ,: "but I would as soon have it, in this place. One thing corre- sponds with another, delightfully. What would our people say, :H if we lived like Delia."                   t "It looks well enough," replied Mrs. Edwardp," but there  is something to do in life besides furnishing a house. Do n't 1 ; expect to live always as easy as you may now."       :! "O! I do n't; but if I have more perplexities than Delia, I shall have a great many." We will now leave them to work out the great problem of  life, and look after some of their associates.  "I should like to see Heleqn Edwards that was," said Ei-    THE MNISTER AND THE BACHELOR.     159 phemia North, one morning, a short time after Helen's mar- riage; "I should like to see how she manages as minister's wife." "I do'n't see why you are so taken up with those Ed- wardses," said Lizzy; for Mrs. Van Vecton was visiting at home. "If you looked with my eyes, you would see very plainly," said Phemy. "I think as much of Helen as you thought of Delia after she received her money, until you married your little Dutchman." What do you say to riding over and seeing her," said Mr. Bartlett, who was again visiting at her father's. "I say I hope no one will invite me who is not in earnest, for I shall not wait for a second invitation." "Miss Euphemia," said Mr. Bartlett, making a low bow, "shall I have the pleasure of riding with you over to K ?" "I thank you, with all my heart." "Then get ready soon, that we may have the benefit of the morning air." At eleven o'clock they reached K . Helen's work was all done; and, in her neat calico morning-dress and little white collar, she was sitting sewing, in the study, with her husband. "That's what I call conjugal felicity," said Bartlett, as they left Mr. Morse's. There is mind and heart, linked to mind and heart,---each happy in loving and laboring. What peace and order prevails, and the happy consciousness of doing right gives a beauty to Helen's plain face) that is as bewitch- ing as the grace of the most fashionable belle, who lives by being caressed and flattered." Euphemia, whose spirit of teasing was not easily separated from her good sense, looked up, while her eyes glistened   160      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE., with interest, and replied: "You talk well about the beauty  of -mind and the attractions of a plain woman, but if you marry a plain woman, I'll give you this locket; and I would n't promise, if I did not think I was safe." "What makes you so certain?" "O, nothing; only that all your jewels happen to come in  handsoime caskets; and ' that which has been done, that it is' which shall be done.' " "Well, I 'll acknowledge the lady I love is far from being plain; but the beauty of her clear black eye, complexion of ^ alabaster and rose, her luxurious hair, matchless teeth, be- X witching dimples, and little rosy mouth, -are nothing to the soul and mind which appear through these various attractions, and change her beautiful face with every variety of intelli-  gent thought."  Euphemia had looked in the glass enough to know to whom this description applied. She thought she knew, too, that a kind of filial and parental affection existed between herself and Bartlett. The difference in their ages, prevented her from dreaming that anything more serious was intended; so she considered his reply as a witty repartee to her teasing -remark, and answered it accordingly.  6 In love, now, are you-? Well, all right,-you are old enough to begin, certainly, - and to a pretty girl, too! so my ! 1t locket is safe; I'm glad of that."           - Her playful, innocent, allusion to his age, entirely discon- certed poor Bartlett. He thought Phemy was getting rid of  the matter in the shortest, easiest manner possible ; and, de- termining to know no more than she appeared to do, talked incessantly upon other subjects, to keep up appearances, till they returned. As they reached home, he regretted that he had been so faint-hearted. It was a clear case to him, that he must know the worst of his doom explicitly. There was   THE MNISTER AND THE BACHELOR.     161 still a doubt in his mind, a perhaps he might be received. He concluded to write her a few lines, which would admit of no mistake, and the note would not be frightened at her satiri- cal remarks, if he was.  At twilight, as Phemy was standing by the fire-place, Mr. Bartlett approached her, and handed her a card. Phemy stooped to read it by the light of the fire; but it was written with a pencil, and not so easily deciphered. "Well," said she, rising gaily, "I'll call for a light to read this. It's nothing agitating, I suppose." So entirely unsuspecting was she, that she did not -attempt to retire, but waited until a lamp was brought, and, with its full blaze falling upon her face, she read the startling confession. Poor child! she wished for Egyptian darkness to conceal her burning cheek, and at- tempted to leave the room, but Bartlett detained her. He was desperate, and determined to know the worst then. We may conclude he was not very unsuccessful, from the fact that he shortly after sought her father, and also from the conver- sation which passed between Euphemia and Mrs. Van Vec- ton the next morning. "O, Phemy!" said Lizzy, " you are not going to marry that man, twice your age, are you?" "I certainly am," said Phemy, for once in her life, soberly. "But just think how disagreeable it will be, when he grows old, feeble, and childish! Then you will be just in your prime. Why do you subject yourself to such liabilities, or rather, I should say, certainties?" "Because I love him,' said Euphemia, with decision and warmth. "You'll have plenty of nursing to do, I fancy." "Well, if I do, I hope I shall do it gently." "O, Phemy," said Lizzy, laughing, "just think how you will feel, with your friends near your own age, when they "*   162      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. come in with their young and manly husbands, while you are nursing your old-baby in his second childhood." "You may spare your ridicule, Lizzy; I shall marry him, if I have to rock him in a cradle." "So you shall." "I will; and if he is coming to hours of such helplessness as you represent, I shall rejoice to be the one to smooth his declining years. In blessing others, we shall be blessed. Mine will be the most exalted kind of happiness."  "Well, there 's the enthusiasm of youth and love, with a witness," said Lizzy. "I do n't wonder Bartlett likes you, j but I 'm sorry you do n't take more enduring material, with  which to build your castle of bliss." It 's tried material, Lizzy; and I would rather build my mansion of happiness of such, than with any of the unsea.- soned timber that you think is more suited to my age."   a Mr. Bartlett had waited long before making proposals, but now, as is usually the case, he was in a hurry, "But I am not 'fitted for house-keeping, yet," said Phemy. "If I had once thought it was my doom to marry you, I should have been studying receipt books, and practising in the kitchen, most industriously." ,' But I've seen you working there, before you ever thought of me for a husband." "Yes, and I once burnt some iron filings, and performed some other chemical experiments; but who would think of placing me at the head of a laboratory? I've never had any domestic education; I only liked to amuse myself, imitat- ing the cook, whenever it suited my fancy and her caprice." Mr. Bartlett saw the force of her remarks, but thought they did not fully apply in this case. Phemy therefore yield- ed, and made herself ready as soon as possible. Like the venerable oak, and the beautiful green mistletoe,   THE MNISTER AND THE BACHELOR.     163 Mr. Bartlett and his young choice were united. The wedding day was like many others, bright and beautiful; and if there was an inequality in years, there was a union of hearts, a sense of dependance and trusting love, on one side, with the experience, care, thought, and protection of the father, on the other. And let those croak who will, over the unsuitableness, the doubtfulness of their prospects of happiness, and say if, while they are mourning that Mr. and Mrs. Bartlett's bliss will not be of longer duration, they are sure of half as much in their own cup. There may be those who will live longer, anA perhaps enjoy more; but there are many of suitable age, who will all their lives be miserable. It is our business now, to congratulate and rejoice with this really happy pair,--and who will be so cruel, as to lift the veil at this time, fora peep at those days, when " the grasshopper shall become a burden." Long before this, " the pitcher may be broken at the foun- tain," and the young, trusting, loving heart, leave this world, rejoicing that her short sojourn here was protected and blessed by such experienced and considerate conjugal love and tenderness. Or the sturdy oak may be prostrated by disease, before decay has entered its heart, or before the wearisome days of watching, and untiring self-denying love, -are called for;-and after all the ominous shakes of wise heads, they may enjoy, during their matrimonial life, as much pure and unsullied pleasure, as many who are united to those nearer their own age; for death knows no distinction of years, - blighting the fairest prospects of youthful love; and disappointment, trouble, and uncongenial, unsuitable unions, are alike incident to youth, as well as age. Mr. Bartlett did not choose a city residence. He was going to live rationally, - be a gentleman farmer, and live in primitive happiness,--so he conducted his beautiful wife to an elegant country seat. It was a spacious and unique   164      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE; 4  house, on one of the highlands of the Hudson. Large pillars, A with elaborately carved capitals, supported the roof in front toward the river, and the top was surmounted with an observatory. In the rear, two circular rooms, with windows reaching to the ground, projected from each end of the house. One of these was Phemy's sitting-room, and opened into the park, at the lower end of which could be seen a little silver lake, denominated the fishing pond. The opposite room was the library, and opened into the garden.- Mr. Bartlett, in accordance with his pretensions as a farmer, kept horses and  oxen, cows, pigs, chickens, ducks, dogs, and even rabbits. 3 He had orchards of fruit, fields of hay, and a small vineyard A -of grapes. His dairy-room was a curiosity of which he was not a little proud. It was built over a spring of running 1 water. The floor was of stone, smoothly laid, the shelves of ' marble slabs, and the pans and other utensils for retaining the milk and cream, churning and keeping the butter, were of the best material, and conveniently arranged.     I "I thought,' said Mr. Bartlett, as he conducted Phemy  $ round his domain, " as I had an Eve, I must have a garden to place her in." "Yes," said Phemy, ,- you have a Paradise truly; and I ' see you have all the animals, too, that came to Adam to be v Jt named."                         'd "No; I've excluded one!" "Which is it? I do n't miss any." "The one that tempted Eve."i "You ought to -have that woman in Proverbs, of whom you so often speak, for a wife, if you live here."    ! "I think I have," replied Bartlett. "That's the best joke of the season," said Phemy, laugh- ing. ' I never saw a pound of butter made in my life!"   THE MNISTER AND THE BACHELOR.    165 "O, well, you know how to do other things, if you can't do that."  Phemy really meant to try to be a good housewife, though she loved to tease her husband about the choice he had made, " so much like other people," she said. Everything was new and in perfect order, so that the labor seemed inviting; and as at the beginning her duties were not as complicated as they would of necessity become after time and the wastefulness of servants 'had rendered repairs necessary, Phemyfor a while enjoyed the novelty; and Mr. Bartlett congratulated himself upon having obtained a good house-keeper, as well as a charming wife. l,   CHAPTER    XII. I ANOTHER VISIT TO MRS. CHESTr, YEARS have rolled on. Mr. Chester's once slender form is now somewhat inclined to corpulency, and his florid cheeks bespeak the free use of wine. But wine is common in fash- ionable society, and Mr. Chester has a system that will bear a more liberal use of it than many, without intoxication.  He has the same gentlemanly bearing and insinuating ad- ! dress as in earlier years; and the graceful tact and delicate I consideration, which characterize his intercourse with his ?3 family, give him a power and fascination which a fear of some and a knowledge of other of his vices has not power to dispel. To Delia's gentle remonstrances (for who can approach him i but in a courteous manner,) he is- all attention. While grace-, fully conceding many things, he defends and secures his main i point with a pertinacity as invincible as it is dignified and  affable. He believes in the evils of intemperance as much as Mrs. Chester; and, in accordance with her wishes, has $ joined a society which excludes rum, cider, and all such low beverages; but wine, which God hath said rejoiceth the heart  of man,- wine, which with oil was pronounced a blessing,- S wine, which even our Saviour wrought a miracle to produce,- he could not think of giving up. It was not receiving the good gifts of God with thankfulness, to refrain from using it with moderation; and rumor says, he hais been so enthusias- tic in manifesting his thankfulness, as to bow down even to the gutter. The great rise of real estate in New York, commencing ex- travagantly in 1834, and increasing till the bubble burst in I             t   ANOTHER VISIT TO MRS. CHESTER.     1C7 '37, enabled Mr. Chester to make a fortunate speculation, which removed the fear of ruin, that for a time checked a free indulgence of his appetite and passions. Mrs. Chester is therefore still surrounded with every luxury. She knows nothing of former debts, and from Mr. Chester's boasts of his fortunate sales of real estate at an advance that would suit even a hungry speculator, she supposes their property is increasing. In the Library, on a lounge of mahogany and velvet, whose scroll inclines from such a height that the whole per- son can be stretched in a half-sitting, half-reclining posture, Mrs. Chester may be seen reposing in graceful languor. Upon the marble stand beside her, is a vase filled with choice flowers, a glass of calves-foot jelly, and some other delicacies to tempt her capricious appetite. Her dishabille is in accord- ance with the most approved Parisian model, and one gentle touch of her jeweled fingers upon the heavy tassel of the bell-rope suspended by her side summons a servant, who re- moves the scarcely-tasted viands, while Mrs. Chester looks as though she would say, with King Henry:- "Will Fortune never come with both hands full, But write her fair words still in foulest letters? She either gives a stomach and no food,- Such are the poor, in health; or else a feast, And takes away the stomach,- such are the rich, That have abundance and enjoy it not." Ella is no longer the infant introduced to our readers, but a beautiful girl of thirteen, graceful and delicate as the water- lily, and, like it, she toils not, neither does she spin, but is borne along in the arms of opulence, with thei same ease and unconcern, as that beautiful flower floats upon the smooth wa- ters, regardless of the mire beneath. Eugene is a year and a few months younger than Ella.   168       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. In person, and mentally and morally, he is the image of hisC father. The same suavity of manner, the same power to con-  trol and influence others, with the same love of self-indulgence, and that cool, calm, calculating management in carrying out his plans, necessary to insure success and worthy of a better cause, are early exhibited by him. The best masters are em- ployed in his education, and every help that wealth can pro- cure, is freely purchased. His memory is quick and reten- tive, but there are so many things to be learned besides those in books, and so many pleasures far more easily obtained, that he cannot deny himself sufficiently to climb the " hill of science." M  The necessity of learning he does not feel, and no admonition from his teachers has yet induced him to be faithful to his tasks. He is the prince of mischief and sport when he chooses to be at school; but much of the time which his parents sup- X pose is devoted to study, he spends in the street with those  older in years and iniquity than himself, and naturally he has become quite a precocious youth, in some branches that might as well have been omitted. He can smoke a cigar without  S squeamishness, toss off his glass like an experienced hand, and play at whist almost as well as his father. Master George, a delicate child of seven years, has alter- i nately excited his mother's hope and anxiety.  Luna is a little blonde, about three, and Ermina occupies  the place in the cradle and nurse's arms, that Ella did when first introduced. Care was grievous to Delia when she had but one child; it is no lighter now. Freedom from exertion, a life of busy- idleness, the excitement of company, and other luxurious habits, had even then enfeebled her. Now she is a confirmed invalid. Mina cries too much to be often with her mamma, and her joyous infantile laugh and heartfelt caresses are be- stowed mostly upon the hireling nurse. The lovely Luna is   ANOTHER VISIT TO MRS. CHESTER.     169 so noisy and asks so many questions, it is tiresome to confine herself to her company. George is the connecting link be- tween Eugene and the younger children. Their animal spirits will rise above wholesome restraint, and fun, frolic, and mis- chief bubble up and boil over. Without some one at the helm, who has authority as well as gentleness and patience, confu- sion will sometimes unavoidably reign. The passions that are possessed by other children, are developed here. Nurse is not particularly conscientious, but when noise and discord rise too high and her patience is exhausted, she shows as much temper as she dares. But she is sure to make it up by some indulgence, lest master Eugene should complain of her, be believed, and thus cause her the loss of her place. As is fre- quently the case, Mr. and Mrs. Chester believe their children instead of the nurse; so that it is for her interest to please the juvenile circle by concealing from their parents those faults that they ought to know. Under the questionable diplomatic skill of the nurse, this little miniature kingdom is kept, on the whole, in a state of tolerable union, though anar- chy, jealousy of favoritism, and petty quarrels, constantly endanger it.  Delia loves her children, is proud of their beauty, and whenC dressed as she can and does dress them, they are, really, pretty playthings. But then the care! The direction of their minds, inclinations, and passions, by patient watchfulness and example, is far too great a draft upon her weak nerves. The children in their clean dresses, like so many dolls from a drawer, have just been passing an hour in the Library, sporting with thir parents. But Mrs. Chester is now fa- tigued, and master Eugene is requested to go to his room and prepare his lessons for the next day, while the younger chil- dren are dismissed to the nursery. As their little feet retrt from the door, Delia prepares to take her siesta, and Mr. Choe 15   170      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. ter goes down to the basement to enjoy himself in smoking. But the nursery and its inhabitants are far from being as quiet as their parents.  Master George is leaning over the fender, (for they enjoy the luxury of a wood-fire,) parching some corn. Eugene, who prefers the nursery to his own room, sits behind him, in a lit- tle cane-seat rocking-chair, with a book in his hand, which he pretends to be studying, while he is, in reality, taking nearly I every kernel as fast as it is parched. "Where are my corns?" said George, as he turned round :: with burning face, expecting to find a pretty parcel, and saw but one or two remaining. "Eudene dot 'em, I see him," said Luna. Eugene is studying very busily, and apparently hears no i thing of the noise; but he is soon obliged to do so.   :- "Give me my corns," said George, running up to him in a ' furious passion.   - "What do you mean?" said Eugene; "I ha'n't got your  corns, look on your toes, but do n't trouble me with your non- t sense."              '- George for a moment looked down at his feet with a vague  hope. His disappointment did not tend to cool his rage.   *"You've got 'em, Eugene, and do you give 'em to me fight off; if you do n't, I'll tell father. Luna saw you get 'em.": "I can tell father, too,' said Eugene in a contemptuous i tone, " if I would be so mean as to be a tell-tale." , ' That would n't be so bad as to be a thief," said George, who seemed determined to show fight, though, as Eugene had  intended, he cowered somewhat under the name, which has  been so odious and powerful, for ages, with older persons than ,  George.          / "If you 'll give them all back to me, I wont tell," saidit George.               . a  '       {   ANOTHER VISIT TO MRS. CHESTER.    .171 "I tell you I have n't got them," said Eugene; " and go and tell father, if you want to; he 'd only make me give them back if I had them ; but mother would scold and pray, and that's worse than a whipping, any time." Thus advised, George starts for the door to tell his mam- ma, which was just as Eugene had intended, for he much pre- ferred the tale would go to her. "Master George, mamma is not well; I would n't disturb her now," says the nurse, "I 'll get you a great many better, when I go down street." "I do n't want them, I want mine, and I will have them." "But you can't, he's eaten them up, said Ella; "now don't cry, we'll get you some more." ,I'll have mine," said George, kicking and screaming, and trying to strike Eugene. "O, fie!" said Eugene, with provoking calmness; "I wouldn't look so! you're not so handsome when you're angry; come, be a little Christian, and please mamma." George felt that this was adding insult to injury,-and screamed louder than before. "You want me to be good, now you've got all you want; but I wont; I'll scream and plague you as long as you live," said George. "Eugene, you have done wrong," said Ella. "I only tasted of them, to see if they were good," said Eu- gene; "I saved him the trouble, and I wont charge him anything." ( Eugene, you ought to behave better," said Ella. "O! softly, softly, Ella. It looks worse in girls than it does in boys, to get angry," said Eugene, stroking her arm, -with a most provoking coolness, and self-satisfied air. "Let me alofie," said Ella; "I do 'nt want anything to do with you when you treat your little brother so."   , z     CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "Did you never hear of magnetism ?" said Eugene,in  tone of mock gentleness. "I'd magnetise you, if I could," said Ella. "-But, my dear, you can't do that; you are decidedly in a negative state to-day, as Mr. Jones would say." I do n't want to know what 3Ir.Jones, or anyone else says; I want to see you a better boy; we can't y onf  have any peace when you are in the house." "Yes," added George, "he knocks my head in, every time I do n't please him." " Well," said Eugene, ,, you should n't have your head so soft, that it will jam in like a coked hat; you should ae it as hard as mine - you can't beat anything into it." While this colloquy is in progress, George cries louder than "Master Eugene, you must make up with George; I can't have this screaming; it will disturb your mamma, and she charged me to have everything quiet, because she do n't feel well," said the nurse, with considerable authority. "I must!" said Eugene; " that is n't for you to say. You'd better keep your place, Miss Bridget." "I am in my place, trying to keep you all still, and if you don't behave better, I shall - be obliged to speak to your papa." 0! yes,"said Eugene, "and when you do that, I'll just tell him -vhat you did last Friday. How long do you think you     stay here, when he knows that ?" and Eugene looked urse looked a little confounded, but rallied almost in- Stantly.  "Tell, if you please;   but if you do, IT  give him that note the school-master sent him, that you hired menot to  That'll takeyou down a   peg." "You said you burnt it up," said Eugene now in his turn a little softening.   ANOTHER VISIT TO MRS. CHESTER.    173 "Well, may be I did n't, if I said so. I 've got it yet; but if you'll be a good boy, I wont show it," said the nurse, who felt inclined to capitulate, as she was as much in Eugene's power, as he was in hers. Eugene thought it was best to make some appearance of concession; so going up to George, and getting down on his knees, with his hands clasped, he said in the most winning tone: "George, I'll acknowledge I've been a little corned, and I'm sorry I've had a fuss with you; and now I hope you 'll give me something, when you have anything again." All the children laulghed, except George, who was going to cry worse than before, which the nurse seeing, and at the same time feeling that the disturbance must be quelled, took down a box which Mrs. Chester had forbidden George; to touch, and promised to show him the inside of it, if he would stop crying. This, with the addition of some confectionery, which she pretended to take from the box, diverted George, while Eugene retreated to the street, to join his idle com- panions, where -he is met by Wallace Van Vecton, the pet, child of the declining years of old Mr. Van Vecton. Wallace is about sixteen, and though not a frequent, a most dangerous associate for Eugene. Wallace had but a few days before been expelled from the University, and froin very wearisome- ness of having nothing to do, like another distinguished per- sonage, " was walking up and down, seeking whom he might devour." Wallace had always a plentifill supply of money, and Eugene was delighted to meet him. Like all other children, he felt proud in the company of those older than  himself, and t'irefully copied everything which he thought manly and prepossessing. Wallace's love of sport andwdis- regard of his books, was particularly pleasing to Eugene, and he had lately been frequently in his company. "How now?" said Wallace, as Eugene met him, "What's   174      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.  the matter ? you look down in the mouth. Old ~man ! been giving you a lecture ? " " Pshaw !" said Eugene, stretching himself to the utmost, "as if he ever did that! You forget, I'm getting too old to be scolded at." " Can you make the old man think so?" " I'm afraid not, if I can't get away that note my teacher sent to father, the other day. He, like an old fool, gave it to Bridget, when she came to the school-house with George's coat and rubbers; and the plague keeps it, to torment me with. I hardly think she'll dare to show it, though, for I hold a rod over her back; but I should feel better, if I could  get the note, I'll acknowledge; then I shouldn't have to mind her." " I would get it," said Wallace; a but come, cheer up land take something to drink, and drive away dull care and sorrow." They were just at the door of one of the splendid drink- ing palaces. Eugene thought it would be manly, to say. nothing of his having acquired a taste for these things already, and accepted the proposal eagerly. Soon after they were seen emerging from the shop, each with a cigar in his mouth. "Now for some fun," exclaimed Wallace, who with Eugene was nerved up for the occasion. The first exercise of their mischievous spirit, was over- turning the stand of an old woman, who sold cakes, apples, etc. The distress of the old woman, and the confused mix- ture of her store, rolling in every direction in the street, wa*s to their perverted eyes, rare Iport. In the confusion that followed, they made their escape, and hastened on to further spoils, regardless of the shadows of evening, or anxious friends awaiting their return. Their next attempt   ANOTHER PEEP AT MRS. CHESTER.     175 was upon an old scissors-grinder, whose machine they disabled by cutting the strap, when his attention was turned another The note, to which allusion has been made, had been des- tined to the flames; but the nurse unfortunately dropped it, and it was picked up by the waiter, and carried on a silver salver to Mr. Chester. He was watching the smoke as it curled gracefully upwards, in its many fantastic and airy shapes. An angry, disturbed look, was plainly perceptible upon that countenance, so generally calm and tranquil. Hastily crush- ing the note in one hand, Mr. Chester started up, and walked to Eugene's room, but he was not there; then to the nursery, but he saw him not; then to the library. ,Where's Eugene," said Mr. Chester, with as much calmness as he could command. ," What's the matter," said Mrs. Chester, with some alarm, as she noticed his strange appearance. But Mr. Chester made no reply, and hurriedly dropping the note, hastened to the street, and looked earnestly up and down. Nothing re- warded his inquiring glance, save the long rows of-lamps, with their little twinkling lights, and the passing of busy men, women, and children.  Retiring to the library, he found Mrs. Chester in tears, over the note he had dropped in his haste. He was hardly seated, before there was a violent ring, and the waiter soon after entered, inquiring for Mr. Chester. Two policemen stood at the door, with Eu- gene, covered with mud and blood, and still under the in- fluence of liquor.             I o oWe found him fighting with a young fellow, and should have carried him to the watch-house, if a gentleman had not known him, and begged us to bring him home; he said you would feel the disgrace so much," said one of them to Mr. Chester; "but," added he, turning to Eugene," if we catch   L V       JV v lau lJ JUN'R'Y LIFE. you in a like fix again, young man, depend upon it,we '11 put you in a place you wont like so well." Master Eugene was treated by his father with great dis- pleasure. He was thoroughly washed, his wounds dressed and then sent to bed; but his fatherl would not see him, or suffer;his mother to do so. "What will become of Eugene," said :Mrs. Chester, wring- ing her hands, and walking the room, as -her husband en- tered. "Ic 'H11 be ashamed of it, by and by, and stop these things himself," said Mr. Chester. " I 'm afraid not," said Delia. " Only think of his deceiv- ing us so long, when we thought everything was going on well." "The poor boy wants something to do," said Mrs. Ed- wards, who sat knitting in her best cap and dress, as digni- fied as any lady. "If he was only made to work, he would get sobered down, and appreciate his privileges. If your father was only alive, or if the boys were at home, I 'd take him to D--       with me, and have him work with them. They always behaved well. They worked their spirits down and that's all Eugene wants." " Yes, I know it," said Delia, " but what can we do ? It is n't with us, as it used to be at D-. My brothers felt oblged to work,--the money they earned was a reward, and rest was sweet."  - "I'll tell you what I'd do," said Mrs. Edwards. " You know I 've had some experience in training boys. I 'd make a necessity for him. I'd take away his supply of spending money, and make him earn it, by getting up early in the morning, and cleaning off the sidewalk alnd steps, and back yards, and have him assist in doing the chores about the house. There's nothing better for children, than to know II   ANOTrHEiK Vloi JL  .,- m ** .. ..   .   .. sat they have got something to do, regularly and systemati- , That would n't do at all, here, mother," said Mr. Chester. We hire Servants on purpose td do those, among other hings * and it would make them indolent to have Eugene do o much of their work. And it wont do Eugene any good o work with the servants; they'll soon grow important, and ?ut themselves on an equality with him, and he'll learn to be just like them. I think he has a higher destiny.      D I do n't see as it would do any more hurt to let Eugene work with the servants, than to stay with them. le is with them a good part of the time. The working, I think, is the best part of it-he needs the exercise to make him strong;   : and if there was n't work enough left to keep the servants busy, and out of mischief, I'd dismiss one of them, and save my money and the child." "But, mother, that would not save him," said Delia. "Eu- gene would not be willing to do such work here. None of his associates do it; they would scorn him for it; it is n't con- sidered respectable, and our neighbors would think we had failed, were very much reduced, or very niggardly." Well! I do n't like your city notions. Your father and I always worked, and folks thought the better of us for it. I could n't be happy, if I did n't do something. I elieve I should work, if I was worth a million; and if I was as rich as you, I would n't mind what folks think, but be independ- ent in such an important thing as training up a child." But, mother,' said Delia, looking deeply distressed, "I ve learned that there's no such thing as independence in this world. Custom is more arbitrary than law. Eugene, I do be-  i lieve, would sooner dare break some laws, than violate the custom so much as to do as you proposed. I do n't like this state of things, but while we live here, we can't resist it, but tat   178      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. must be borne along with the current. If I could have my way, I would move out of the city, where Eugene would be away from temptation, and working would be respectable ; and Delia looked imploringly and half-reproachfully at her husband. ' I think," said Ir. Chester, " this thing can be managed without so much trouble. You are accustomed to the city, Delia, and do n't know how much you would feel the change, if we should move away. Eugene shall be taken care of. I've just had a bright thought: I heard, yesterday, of a man in  , who keeps a; family-school for boys, and has remark- able success with them. He is very strict, and yet, they say, the boys love him. I 'll send Eugene there forthwith." . The place selected for- master Eugene's future residence was in a large town, about thirty miles from New York. An airy house and spacious grounds, shaded by many noble trees, gave its exterior an inviting appearance. In a large school- room were about twenty boys, the sons of wealthy gentlemen in the city, many of whom were precocious in iniquity, like Eugene, and transplanted to this country nursery, to escape the influence of evil associates. A large placard of the most stringent rules was placed over the fire-place, with the heavi- est penalties annexed. Eugene looked carefully round, sur- t veying with closest scrutiny the teacher and his companions, evidently seeking for a kindred spirit. Children are lnot long in becoming acquainted with one another. There was one keen-eyed lad, in an opposite corner from Eugene, who watched the new-comer with the same eagerness and with. more intelligence and cunning than the others. At recess, he made his acquaintance.  '"How do you ever live here?" said Eugene, pointing to the rules. "I'll tell you how that's done," said he, with a knowing   ANOTHER VISIT TO MRS. CHESTER.    179 shrug, and winking to Eugene to follow him, we use our wits! We write home to our parents what a good teacher we ve got, and ask them to send us some rich presents that we may give him; and. we know when to give them. O! yes. 'Old Hunks,' as we call him, will do anything for a consideration, if it's only done under cover. Those laws are a fine screen, and we never complain of him for not executing them,--no, not we!"  ,' But do n't the sober ones complain?" , Precious few of that sort here, and they are easily man- aged. Old Hunks boasts that he always fulfils his threats, and so he does when he sees, or is convinced that we were do- ing wrong; but he knows who it will do to see, and when to see, as well as we do when to play. Of course, these things have to be'managed, you know, and that's all the fun. Hunks a'n't a fool, if he is covetous. Some of the boys do n't understand this matter, and are always 'catching it.' We have to learn something, of course, - make some improvement that will make a show, or the old folks would n't stand it, nor the teacher either. But we don't hurt ourselves on that point; you know we can afford to study a little, but 't is rich--the times we have standing between the old folks and Old Hunks, -if there wa'n't any risk, there wouldn't be so much fun, you know!" "Just so," said Eugene, taking out a piece of tobacco and handing it to his new friend with as much importance as he could assume. "There!" said Mr. Chester, handing his wife an open let- ter, a short time after Eugene's absence; "I hope you will cease grieving about Eugene; you will see by that, he is very happy." Dear child!" said Mrs. Chester, wiping her eyes as she perused the precious epistle, I was afraid you would suffer   180      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. under such a severe teacher. I can never be sufficiently  ( thankful."  "Mrs. Van Vecton is in the drawing room, ma'am', said  L John, protruding his head between the casement and the half- I open door. "O, dismal!" said Mrs. Chester to herself; but, turning to her servant, she replied: "Show her up, John."      "Good morning, dear! how do you do?" said Lizzy, as she entered the library and took the proffered hand of Delia, while, in the most affectionate manner, she added a kiss, which Delia, of course, returned. "It seems an age since I have seen you," said Lizzy. "How pale you do look, dear!" "I have been quite ill, but feel better, now," replied Delia. ' I am glad to hear of it," said, Lizzy; " but I do n't know  as it will hardly do to tell you the distressing news; you will look worse than you do now."                 : "Do n't be afraid," said Delia, " let me hear quickly." "Poor Mrs. McGuire!" said Lizzy. "What of her? I'm impatient to hear," said Delia. "You know her youngest daughter Frances, that beautiful girl!" " Yes, is she sick, or dead?" Better either, t  whan what has befallen her," said Lizzy; "she's eloped with a miserable fortune-hunter, one of the lowest of the low! They are actually married! They are expecting, I suppose, that her parents will, after a time, for- give her and receive her back." "They wont, will they?" said Delia.           t  "I'm afraid they will; Mrs. McGuire is almost crazy for   I the loss of her daughter, and the old man is in a phrenzy that any one should be allied to their family who is not re- a spectable. He says, the fool married her for her money, and 1 he never shall have a cent."   ANOTHER VISIT TO MRS. CHESTER.     181 "  O how distressing!" said Mrs. Chester. Is he anything out of which they can make a respectable man, if they re- ceive them back? - for he must go with her." "So far as personal appearance goes, he will do well enough;--he's fascinating; bult it's said he'll ruin the old man if he ever has anything to do .with him. He's more than a fortune-hunter, - he has once served his time out in Sing- Sing for horse-stealing." "How could she do such a thing?" "! he made great pretences, of course, - was introduced to her, at a watering-place, as a foreigner of distinction, - an earl, or lord, or something of the kind. Mr. and Mrs. McGuire warned her against him, but not till after he had gained her ear and her heart, it seems; and he persuaded her to go away with him to share his distinction and his bliss! "Poor creature!" said Delia, " how I pity her and her parents. I was looking at that family the other day, and thinking that while everybody seemed to have some trouble, they appeared to be perfectly happy:" "They have trouble enough now," said Lizzy; " can hardly feel reconciled when I think of the traps which are laid for the children of the wealthy; I think there ought to be something done about it." "That is one of the evils incident to wealth, and it can't be helped:" said Delia, sighing deeply, " we are all liable to such things."1 "O! don't mention it; to think that such a thing might happen in my family, makes me sober. I shall teach my girls better. Come, let us think of something pleasanter. Do you go to Mrs. Mason's splendid party, Thursday?" "I've thought some of it. You 'll be there, of course!" I do n't know, I have n't anything to wear." "Where's that lovely dress you had imported from France?" 16   182      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "O! I 've worn that and all my others twice, this season. I sha'n't go if I can't have time to contrive up something  new. I do n't want to be known by my dress." "Your dresses are so perfectly elegant and unique, you may well say, if you do n't have time to contrive up something, for I should think you had racked your invention by this time," said Delia, apparently not noticing the concealed thrust at herself which Mrs. Van Vecton's remark contained, for Delia had worn the same dress three times that season, though not consecutively, of course, and she had been thinking that, with the addition of a flounce and new trimmings, which would give it a decidedly-different appearance, she should wear it again.- It was a very becoming dress for her complexion and stately figure, in its primitive state; but in this last, revised edition, it had been pronounced, by her dress-maker, per- fectly lovely. The dress, of course, was not now to be thought of for a moment, and she resolved, like Lizzy, to stay at home, or obtain another for the occasion. After much more conversation, as edifying as has been re- lated, though perhaps of not the same practical influence, Mrs. Van Vecton left for Stuart's, where she had been in- tending to go and gratify her vanity and taste, in the purchase of a suit for the coming brilliant occasion. "'Ah! that's you, is it?" said she, recognizing a friend as she was leaving the shop; "I was going to call upon you, but as I have met you, I will defer it till another time. My call would have been principally on business. I heard you speak- ing, the other day, of a girl who was very handy with her needle, and worked very cheap." "Yes, I did; she lives at the corner of S--  street, and can do almost anything with her needle. I expect she has seen better days, but her family are very poor, and she wants to get work -in rich families, and until she gets a little more   ANOTHER VISIT TO MRS. CHESTER.     183 known, she will work very cheap, - she must, for they are almost starving, and she will work at your price, unless you choose to let her have her own," said the heartless beauty. , Never fear my doing that," replied Lizzy; "these dress- makers and seamstresses are so exorbitant, one would sup- pose that they imagined we were made of money. Articles are so cheap now, that we might -dress elegantly with ease, if it were not for getting our garments made and altered,- these sewing-bills are enormous." So saying, she entered her carriage, and, by grinding the face of the poor girl who has been mentioned, she made up for the extravagances of the morning. Though the Van Vectons were independent in their cir- cumstances, that is, amply able to live upon their income without labor, they did not always find it sufficient to meet all their wants. Mr. Van Vecton was determined not to go be- yond his income at any rate, and, as ample as that was, there was an end to it but, alas! no end to their wants. He loved to indulge his family in startling and expensive purchases, that would make them the envied of all their acquaintance; and then the little wants, which are as numerous and trouble- some as the flies in Egypt, were to be provided for with the utmost economy, bordering sometimes on meanness, or they were to be dispensed with entirely. Much mortification and vexation was mingled in Lizzy's cup, on this account. She loved dress and show, and particularly to outshine her neigh- bors. In this, she and her husband were agreed; but to be limited, as she must be, was a trial she could ill bear. If she spent more than her allowance, there was no more for her, and she must contrive to do without. The poor woman really thought she sometimes felt the pinchings of poverty! And why should she not? She had infinite wants, and a limited income to supply them.   184      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. Mrs. Chester remained at home purposely, for she did not wish Lizzy's knowledge, company, or assistance, in her shop- ping. But how, if she was not able to attend to her interest- ing little family, could she atjend parties? Her ill-health, it would be supposed, would be a sufficient excuse. But Mrs. Chester was not confined to her bed, or the house, though she was constantly ailing. She seldom werit out, except to ride; and being dressed by a servant, with scarcely any effort of her own, conveyed thither in her carriage, and only standing an hour or two between nine and twelve, and then remaining in her bed one or two days subsequently, was an entirely different thing from being harassed 'with the care, noise, and frolics of children constantly. Besides, she suffer- ed so much, she thought she needed some amusement, and it seemed like being buried, not to attend parties once in a while. Another reason, more urgent than all,- her husband wished it. It is true the parties were unsatisfying, and she often felt that all was not right, and resolved to do better. But to change, involved self-denial, which hei previous habits had but ill-fitted her for exercising. This morning, before Mrs. Van Tecton called, she had been discussing the state of things with her conscience, which was not entirely seared. She had been led to feel the difference between the training of herself, by her excellent mother, and the useless life, which her own children were preparing to lead, under her neglect. She remembered, that when at Ella's age, she was active, healthy, and useful, and could more than earn her own support. But then there was a difference in their situations; she did not wish Ella to earn her living, but she wished her capable of doing it, if she should ever be necessitated to do it. Alas! that if was the nucleus around which the ghosts of many future miseries circled. Not that she supposed her property was wasting, any more than that   ANOTHER VISIT TO MRS; CHESTER.     185 of others with whom   she was surrounded, for she knew nothing of her husband's circumstances, nor had the least suspicion that he had sought her hand from mercenary motives. But her good sense taught her, that attempting to gratify every want, as she and her acquaintance were doing, must be ruinous in the end. She Was sick of the ceaseless demands for more money, which the life she now led was continually making. It did not seem good for her children, but she had not courage to break off. It was in this frame, that Lizzy found her. Her philoso- phy, reform, and conscientious scruples, were all striken to the death, by the poisonous arrow that MIrs. Van Vecton so adroitly and maliciously aimed at her, just for the sake of showing that she could afford to be more foolish and ex- travagant than her neighbors. Conscience was now resisted; her resolutions of retrenchment, that she might live more in accordance with her views of her charitable duties, were summarily dismissed, her numerous maladies unnoticed, as she set out that afternoon, in search of something that should, if possible, be more tasteful, elegant, and becoming, than any dress Mrs. Van Vecton could obtain. " I sold a dress off this to Mrs. Van Vecton,"' said the shop-keeper, as he urged Mrs. Chester to purchase a beauti- ful brocade. "-I doubt if you have the trimmings, such as I should like to accompany this," said Delia, determining to bring out all the information she could. " I think there will be no difficulty about that; we suited Mrs. Van Vecton;" so saying, he displayed them to her view. "Have you any different styles from these," said Dela, hesitating. " I think I'11 call to-morrow, perhaps you '11 have something new, by that time."   186      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. : "O! you need n't wait; we've a new case that 's just arrived this afternoon, and has never been opened."  From that Mrs. Chester selected a dress, which gratified ' her envious feelings, and satisfied her taste, much better than  her conscience.  "O! what is more wearing than shopping!" said she, as  she returned, and threw herself upon her luxurious lounge. Bridget, as her custom was, assisted Mrs. Chester in the arduous task of removing her cloak, bonnet, etc., and after carrying them to their appropriate places, brought her rms- tress a glass of calves-foot jelly, to strengthen her, after her great fatigue, and then the tired lady sought repose, while her purchases were committed to dress-maker and seamstress, to be prepared for her appearance in them at Mrs. lunson's. Did you see Chamberlain's carriage?" said Mr. Chester to his wife, as he entered, a short time after. "Carriage?  no! does he flourish in that style?" "Yes; he's been speculating, and has a  great deal of property in his hands; but I  do n't think he's really worth much." "He must have made money very fast, if he can suppDort that long!" iHe does a great deal of business," replied Chester, -' and it yields him a good income. If he only had the property that would give him that, he would be very rich; but he can't lay up anything, at the rate he lives." "Foolish man!" exclaimed Mrs. Chester; "when his business stops, all will be gone; why don't be act like a  rational being,--live less expensively, and lay aside some- j thing to provide for his family, if he should be taken   i away?"  "Hie do n't mean to be, at present, I suspect," said Chester, gaily.   , He looks healthy and hearty: I could not help   ANOTHER VISIT TO MRS. CHESTER.    187 envying the fellow, he looked so happy, enjoying the money he had made." "I do n't envy him, or Laura either," replied Delia. "I should be miserable, if I thought I was bringing up children it   in suchl expensive habits, and had nothing to leave them to maintain the style in which they had been accustomed to live. I was thinking to-day, if we found it so hard to sustain our style, with our income, what they, poor things, will do, when it comes to be divided among five I've been trying to teach them economical habits, but they have no idea of such things. They seem to think they must have everything they want, and act as though they thought they could." This being an unpleasant turn to the conversation, Mr. Chester felt he had business elsewhere, and withdrew.  - Mrs. Chester looked magnificently on the evening of Mrs. Munson's party. Her dress was becoming, as well as costly; her large black eyes glistened, and her otherwise pale face was slightly flushed from excitement; her step and manner majestic and courtly as usual. Like many others, she de- rived part of her power of fascination from the encourage- ment and impetus, which she received, not only from her own consciousness of her attractive appearance, but from the tacit admission of that fact, by others, shown in their pleasing attentions -the effect operating as a cause, and' reproducing the same. "s Who is that tall, interesting, philosophical looking man, with the lovely Miss Fielding?" said Mrs. Van Vecton to Mr. Chester. . "I don't know, but I like his appearance, and mean to make his acquaintance," he replied. Delia said nothing, but that form and countenance were not strangers to her, and the frequent glances of the gentle   188      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. man in the direction where she stood, convinced her that he was not less desirous of an introduction. Mrs. Chester re- joiced that her preparations for the evening had been so elaborate, as she was now introduced to Gov. Atherton, of M--. Mr. Chester knew nothing of his former acquaintance with his wife, and but slight allusion was made to it, by either Delia or Frank.  This conversation was upon the topics that engaged public interest, and was brief, sparkling, and interesting. Miss Fielding was very wealthy, and the ac- knowledged belle of the season. Aside from his literary attainments, and political station, being the accepted lover of Miss Fielding, was a distinction which would have made Atherton an object of notoriety or envy in that circle. Frank felt that evening, as he saw age, wisdom, wealth, and the former mistress of his heart, do him reverence, that his long cherished wish had at last been gratified. / ,      '      -  .-   CHAPTER XIII. THE PARSONAGE. Life's cares are comforts.-Youg. YERs as they advanced, have brought iththemaion- al cares and responsibilities to Helen. Her little flock num-- ets but one less a than 3&-s. Chester's, and with an income of less hundreds than Delia annually expends of thousa ds  does she endeavor to minister to the wants of her family, i a manner becoming her station, meet the different calls f charity, and assist her husband to obey the Apostle's injunc- tion, "be given to hospitality. If Delia groans andsink under her burden, with so few pecuniary difficulties, can Helen be expected to sustain her? Will she not be crushed with care and poverty? No; Helen has been nerved by the struggle with trial and care. She endeavored to meet each one courageously as it approached, till she iow sustains their united weight with apparently as much ease, as she performed her duties when they were less complicated. It is time we made another visit to the parsonage. There it stands, as it did in her bridal days, opposite the church, in its coat of white paint, and garnished with those useful ornaments,--green blinds. In frontis the large yard, scrupulously neat, enclosed by a white wooden fence. From the green grass which extends both sides of the gravelled walk in the centre, we should judge the inmates find little time for the cultivation of flowers. It is true some fine rose   190      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. dispense their fragrance to the industrious family within. In the centre of each half of the yard, stands a beautiful holly, and some lilacs adorn the corners; no farther floral decora- tions are attempted. The tall, delicate looking man, working in the garden, with a black straw hat, calico gown, and white cravat, is Mr. Morse. He is now taking his exercise in the healthy labor of cultivating those vegetables, which Helen knows so well how to prepare for the table.  Beside him is Johnny, a sprightly, active creature, but an instance of perpetual motion. His bright, black eyes are brim full of fun. His hair curls so beautifully around his fine, ruddy face, and he is so affectionate, that you cannot help being interested in the little delinquent, though you may know that scarcely an hour will pass without his being in some mischief, or breaking over some wholesome restraint. With the assistance of one girl, in New England denomi- nated " help," Helen's house is kept in perfect order, her family sewing performed in its season, the children kept neat and tidy, and she maintains her station at the head of her people, with becoming dignity-and propriety, and to their united acceptance. Let us look within. It is Saturday. How comfortable and tidy is the dining-room, where she has for convenience brought her children. A babe is sleep- K ing in the cradle. Near her is Helen, who is ready to jog it with one foot, at the first movement towards waking, while she is sewing busily upon a garment, which must be finished before the morrow. In the corner, near the cradle, little ] Martha is sitting, building houses with her blocks, a1d at the other side of her mother, ripping an old dress sits the meek, gentle, lady-like Susan, the eldest of the family. Her delicate complexion, rosy cheeks, light flaxen hair, and Bear blue eyes, are not more engaging, than her quiet and     THE PARSONAGE.         191 proper deportment. Helen frankly confesses, if she had only this child, she should have supposed mothers could make their children all that they desired; and until bright, laughing, mischievous Johnny appeared, she never fully knew how to sympathize with the parents of wayward children. Now she frequently says, (I 'm sufficiently punished." Everything is quiet while Johnny is out, but this intermission from noise is soon over. Mr. Morse has finished his exercise in the garden, and seeks his study, while Johnny runs boisterously in, re- gardless of his sleeping brother, and throws down the tall house of blocks, which Martha-has been building. This feat, which he did only to make a laugh, hoping his sister would join in it, and enjoy it, provoked a loud cry of disappointment from the otherwise quiet little girl. Martha's outcry awakes the baby, who had not finished his nap, and loudly laments the interruption. Just in the midst of this confusion, a horse and chaise appears at the, door, and a brother minister gets out, and knocks. Ann, the handy maid of all work, who is getting the dinner, goes to the door. "Take him into the study," says Mrs. Morse, calmly. With the babe in her arms, she calls Susan to divert Martha, while she attempts to quiet the infant and amuse Johnny, by inducing him to play at boo-peep, with his little brother. When order is restored, Helen endeavors to instil into his mind, lessons Of gentleness and propriety. Under the in- fluence of his mother's kind admonitions, the little rogue is very sorry, and much more certain than his mother, that he never will do the like again. The dinner is now ready. The baby and Martha are removed to the nursery, and Mr. Morse and his visitor called to the inviting repast, which is , smoking upon the table. A large platter of baked beans, with a piece of pork in the centre, nicely crisped and crossed,   192      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. No apologies or additions are made, save an extra plate, knife and fork, for Helen's table is always spread with neat- ness and propriety. The blessing had hardly been devoutly craved, before a loud rap is heard. Mr. Morse rises, and goes to the door. "Helen," said he, as he returned, after a few moments' absence, "can you put a couple more plates on the table? Mr. and Mrs. Otis have come." "Certainly," says Helen, good humoredly; "invite them in. A fine plate of beans and pork was presented to both, with the remark from Mrs. Morse, "will you take a Saturday's dinner?" "I thank you," said Mr. Otis, with a graceful bow; " you must excuse me. I am extravagantly fond of your tempting dinner, but I have been obliged to deny myself all such luxuries for some time past. I can make a very good meal, if you will pass me a piece of your nice bread, providing it was not baked to-day." "This was, but I can get you a piece that was not; but you must not make such an unpalatable dinner," said Helen, as she observed his pale face. "Can't Ann make some tea?" said Mr. Morse to his wife. Helen knew that Ann was busy in the nursery with the children, and replying it could be done very easily, rose to perform the task herself. The water in the tea-kettle was already quite warm, and needed but little urging to bring it to the boiling point. Soon cups, saucers, sugar bowl, and creamer, smoking tea, a plate of crackers, and a dish of jelly were added to the well-filled table. "There is but one drawhack to my enjoyment of this ex- cellent tea, for it quite refreshes me," said Mr. Otis, sipping   THE PARSONAGE.         193 it, "and that is, that you were obliged to be at so much trouble as to prepare it, Mrs. Morse." "It was but a moment's work, and a pleasure I seldom enjoy, of ministering to your comfort." Mrs. Otis was not an invalid, and made a hearty dinner, with the rest of the family. She was a school-mate of Helen's, and a dear friend, and though her presence causes some interruption, and a little extra labor, Mrs. Morse does not call it trouble. " Now Helen," said Mrs. Otis, " we have come to spend the Sabbath with you, provided it is perfectly convenient." " Nothing would give me more pleasure, my dear Marian," said Helen, " but you and Mr. Otis must excuse my husband, unless this gentleman will preach for him." "That of course," said 5Ms. Otis; and seeing Helen take up the garment upon which she had been sewing before din- ner, she added, "let me have a needle, and assist you in your sewing, for we can talk as well while we are at work, and enjoy it better." Mrs. Otis's assistance was very timely, for they had hardly commenced, before another rap called Helen from her work. Miss Sands, an excellent maiden lady, was ushered in. " I 'm glad to see you able to be out," said Helen, kindly; "did you walk all the way ?" " Yes; it's a long time since I 've walked as far, but the weather was fine, and I thought I'd try and get out to-day." "Yout must be tired; take off your things." "I can't stop long, only to rest me. I am going over to try and fit a dress for little Arabella Carey. Her mother can fit her out to meeting, if the child has a dress." "What have you got for the dress ? " said Helen. "Sister and I thought perhaps we could contrive up a decent dress of what was good in two, that we had alike;   194      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. you remember those brown ginghams. The dress wont last long, to be sure; but it's a pity the child should stay at home from meeting." " It is a great deal of work to make a dress," replied - Mrs. Morse, " and if you think what you were going to use is not strong enough to last, perhaps you had better work it up in some other way. I've got a dress, which I think will pay for alteration, and you may take that." "O! this is just the thing; but I think you ought not to provide these clothes. I was talking with sister the other day about it. She said you always had something to help others with, and she was sure she did not know how you did it, for she thought you had enough in your own family to do for." "O, things come to me," said Helen. "Sometimes people give me old dresses, on purpose to give away, because I know of a great many who are needy." "But this dress is one of your own," said Miss Sands; "you can't throw this benevolence on to anybody but your- self." "I can much better spare that," said Mrs. Morse, (than I could cut and make it. I think you, in your feeble health, are doing far more for them, than I; and I'm glad to see you have a heart to do it, Miss Sands. It is our highest pleasure to benefit others." "It certainly is a pleasure to me," replied the good lady, with tears in her eyes. "If I did not do something, I should be but a poor scholar, for you have' taught us all, by your example; but we can't any of us equal you." Just before leaving, Miss Sands uncovered a little basket, which she had kept carefally by her side during her call, and displayed a quantity of the finest strawherries. '"You have always been so kind to me when I was sick   l-M! i           THE PARSONAGE.         195 and brought me things to tempt my appetite, M rs. Morse, that I have longed to bring you something; and now I am ashamed I can't bring you any more, but I thought perhaps these would relish, and that you would accepfhe feeling that prompted me to bring them." There were a couple of quarts, and few things could have been more acceptable at that time. Miss Sands had hardly left, before the stage stopped at the door. " I hope, dear Helen," said Mrs. Otis, " you are not going to have any more company, for we so seldom see each other." Her wish was gratified. The stage only stopped to leave a huge box, and its cumbrous wheels moved on, at as rapid a rate as before. "'Tisl a box from Aunt Delia," said Susan, in an ecstasy; "now we shall have some nice dresses." tSusan was tight. The arbitrary fashion, which could not permit Delia to appear many times in the same dress, was an important benefit to Helen, whose wardrobe was almost wholly supplied by her sister. " There is but one unpleasant thing about it)" said Helen, as she displayed the contents of the box to her friend; "I feel the things are too good for me to wear, though Delia makes them as plain as she thinks they ought to be, before she sends them to me. She says I shall not 'look dowdy and countrified.' " "But your people know where they come from?" " Yes; I should never dare wear them, if it were not for that." " You and Delia are very nearly of a size, if I recollect right," said Mrs. Otis. " Yes, we can wear each other's dresses, with scarcely any alteration; and Susan is so near Ella's size, she can take her clothes very easily; and so on."    196      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "Yes, I see here is a plentiful supply of elegant clothes, large and small. What a fine- thing it is to have a rich ! sister, Mr. Morse. You ll have a chance to lay up money,  if your wife and children are clothed for you."      - "I rather think I shall have to let you into the secret of H ',; ministers' laying up money, Mrs. Otis," said Ir. Morse,  % sitting down as though he was going to begin a long story. ?? "This box I regard as one instance of the compensation  , : system, which God provides for those deficiencies which he a thinks best for us to feel in another way. This is one rill  that flows in quietly, to prevent the reservoir from becoming  quite dry, by the abundance of hidden outlets. I do not tell  you this, Mrs. Otis, to complain, but that you may know how to feel for, and sympathize with your own minister, and last, ! but not least, how to treat him. Every cause of benevolence  that is brought forward, and you know t h9 number is not -  small, taxes your minister more heavily in proportion to his means, than any one in his parish. The minister must give, or he is niggardly, - must give to set a good example; and lastly, he must give, lest he should be considir6d as opposed :;: to those excellent reforms. Added to this, administer must ;::  spend a large portion of his salary, and his time, which is more than money, in attending councils, and other public meetings; then he must be abundant in private charities, of ? which the world know nothing, for the destitute always   I flock to the minister. There are a multitude of instances, where the minister is requested to give, when he cannot with apparent propriety refuse, and yet it is nothing but polite robbery to ask it of him. Now, if a man must fritter away his salary for these things, that never benefit, his family at : all, do you think he 'll grow rich, if he does occasionallyS have a box of second-hand clothes sent to him?"' ' " i   I/'  /       THE PARSONAGE.        197 "It's a hard chance for him," said Mrs. Otis, who began' to have her eyes opened. ("My dear," said Mrs. Morse to her husband, " illustrate what you mean, by your story of the Temperance Conven- tion." "This 'll do for a first lesson," said he smiling, as he went out. "Then I 'll tell you, if he wont," said Helen, " and re- member that this is not an isolated instance, but one of fre- quent occurrence. You know great efforts are now making to sustain thel temperance cause. Last week there was a convention at D  , and Mr. Morse, among the other min- isters who are deeply interested in the cause, attended. It seemed necessary for him to do so,- the interests of the community demanded it, - so he hired a horse for the -pur- pose. When there, he was expected to buy a dinner, to sus- tain the house. Then a gentleman addressed the meeting, to show that the cause of temperance depended greatly upon sustaining a paper, which would advocate those principles. Several eloquent speeches were made to that effect, and a subscription paper circulated for the purpose. Of course it was presented first to the ministers, who sat upon the plat- form, and who had all done and said a great deal upon the importance of sustaining the cause. If they did not sub- scribe, their zeal would be considered heartless, and there was another dollar called for. Then at the close of the meet- ing, the box was passed round to defray the expenses of the convention, and especially, pay the expenses of the orators of the day, who had come a long distance to address them, and whose names had drawn many together. Husband got through the day with four dollars, and he says this is a pretty fair sample of the way things are managed. At the meetr ings of other benevolent societies, it is not always thought 17* ,'-   198      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.  necessary to sustain temperance houses, so the minister is : expected to make an entertainment, and provide for the mul- I : titude gratis. 'I do n't mention these things to complain[  as my husband says, for I enjoy the pleasure, as well as  dread the trouble and expense; but I wish to (have people know where the money goes. The fault is generally laid to  the minister's wife, because she is not economical, and I like 4 to tell these stories in self-defence; and I'll leave it to you, if a lady who is absent from her family as much as youif would like to have your minister's wife, can always conduct her affairs in the most frugal manner. HoA, do things pros- X per when you are absent from your family."      -  "I confess I was wrong. I do not think ministers are in any danger of becoming rich, if they have twice as much  : given them."                        X "I'm glad to hear you say so, dear Marian, for now I think you will make a good parishioner."          X "People have complained of our minister's wife; they  thought the trouble lay with her, that her husband was so  much embarrassed in his pecuniary affairs; but now I under- b stand it - I 'll set them right."             %{ a So do," said Helen, ' for I have quite a sympathy for her; t! and if you do this, I think your visit will not be lost." i: Several otherlcalls hindered the sewing operations, so that t:; it required two hours of patient stitching, after all had retired i : save Helen; but she was early accustomed to toil, and a practised hand, and a willing heart, overcomes all obstacles. The garment is at length finished, and with a conscious- ness of duty performed, Helen gently sinks to sleep, prepara,- tory to enjoying the rest of the Sabbath.           Alas, for Johnny, that the Sabbath has come. What shall   he do? As to resting from his labors, he never did that,  i unless asleep, and it is only in that state that he can acquit   THE PARSONAGE.         199 himself with decorum at public worship. But neither Helen nor Mr. Morse will give up, and therefore he is each day obliged to go, and suffer the consequences of disobedience upon his return. This morning he has fully sustained his reputation of being a naughty boy at church, and gone home to meet the recompense of reward. Helen " sows in tears," as she again punishes the little offender. He promises fairly, and with many sobs, that he will do better; and, like' many older persons, supposes he really has become good, because he has formed a good resolution. His tears are hardly wiped away, and his breathing become natural, before it is time for afternoon service. There is something inspiring and elevating in the tones of the church-going bell, and Johnny seems to have caught the inspiration, as he takes his father's hand,"and walks with sanctimonious step toward the church. "I love to go to meeting, pa, do n't you?" says Jobnny. "Yes, my son."          '      \ "All good folks love to go to meeting, do n't they, pa?" Half the afternoon, he astonishes his mother by his good behavior, and she begins to think the victory is gained, when the mischief, which has so long been pent up, bursts its feeble barrier, and his good resolutions are all swept away. At the close of the service, his mother is at a loss what course to j pursue, but at length concludes not to punish, lest he should be discouraged, because she has seen an effort at improve- ment.             . Mr. and Mrs. Otis left early on Monday morning. The addition of so much unexpected company on' Saturday, quite consumed the provision for Monday's dinner, which, with her usual care, Mrs. Morse always prepared on Saturday. Helen concludes not to interfere with the arduous duties of washing- day, by cooking a dinner; accordingly at the usual time, the   200      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. table ts neatly spread with a clean cloth, plates, bowls and spoons. A large pitcher of milk stands in one corner, another  of water in the opposite, and ample plates of bread- white and brown,--and smaller plates of butter and cheese, are waiting in all proper humility, for Mr. Morse, who has just been called. But he tarries. One glance at the window shows the reason. A fine carriage, drawn by two beautiful white horses, is at the gate, and 3Sr. Morse is welcoming a :%I portly gentleman, and a couple of ladies, who have already alighted. Helen instantly recognizes them am some wealthy : acquaintances of Mr. Morse. 01             X "Oh! I hope," says Ann, "these folks are not going to : stay to dinner. "- 1' hope they are not going away before," said Helen. "They are very dear friends, and though I should have been glad if they had come when I was better prepared, I would !I prefer to have them now, than not at all."  ,     I "What are you going to do for dinner?" said Ann, look- ing rather gloomy. "Take off the milk, cook some ham and eggs, and have a :  cup of tea," said Helen, who by this time, with her child in ' ir her arms, had entered the parlor to see that all was right for their reception. Forgetting her fatigue, she welcomed her r / friends, and performed the rites of hospitality, and engaged :3 in social converse, with an ease and good humor which would have surprised her guests, had they known the labors and trials of the morning. Does some romantic girl turn with disgust at this picture, and say, "if I must meet with such trials as Laura, Delia, or poor Helen, I'll never get married, no, not I!" Well, then, see that you never do! for if your ideas of a married life are,- to be the- idol of your husband, surrounded by every luxury, and obliged to meet no trials, or make no exertions. ?  w '  e!   THE PARSONAGEi.         ZU1 no sacrifices, for your own good, or the good of others,-it is the last state, save Heaven, for which  you are fitted. Whether rich or poor, married or single, lowly or exalted, you must meet with trials, for they are incident to every situation. The world is full of trials, or rather opportunities for obtaining the joys of a victor; and if you do not crush them they will crush you. If you will give them opeF" battle and overcome them, you will gain a mastery over your- self. If you try to evade them, they will still meet you, but not as an open enemy. They will come upon you unawares, as a thief or assassin, when you are unprepared for defence, and spoil you. If it were possible to place you in a state where there is no friction, and every want could be gratified without the cost of effort, your mind would be in that state of stagnation, which destroys your energies, sickens your body, despoils you of your bloom, and makes you exert a doleful, unhappy, and unsatisfying influence upon all around you. It is running water which purifies, refreshes, and in- vigorates; and activity of mind and body, is as essential to the health of body, mind, and heart, as agitation is to the cleansing of waters. Helen is obliged to exert herself. She finds enough to occupy her heart, her hands, her ears and her tongue.  Her difficulties are so great, she does not attempt to bear them alone, but seeks Divine aid, and over- comes them. Her life is constantly cheered by little victo- ries, over the "little foxes that spoil the vines."  She has learned by experience the strange paradox, that it is the yoke of Christ, which is easy, and it is his burden which is light. Her countenance is bright and cheerful, her health better than that of her three friends, who have not half the, labor to perform, or sacrifices to make. She has not as costly or elegant clothing, jewels of gold or silver; 'but her obedi- ence to God in bearing the unromantic and annoying trials   202      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. of life, is " an ornament of grace to her head; and a chain about her neck." "Her husband is known in the gates,    when he sitteth with the elders of the land," lher children love her, and "her husband he praiseth her." H oi i' ' ' ^ ^,i   CHAPTER XIV. A DOMESTIC SCENE. ' Happiness is a way-side flower, growing on the highways of usefulness x Plucked,- it shall wither in thy hand; Passed by, - it is fragrance to thy spirit: Be useful and be happy."          j THE beautiful country-seat on the banks of the Hudson, was a favorite resort of Phemy's numerous friends during the warm season. The scenery was delightful, the strawherries, cherries, apples, pears, peaches, grapes, and other fruits, which could be obtained so fresh from the trees or vines, the sweet cream, etc., were fully appreciated in and of themselves. The addition of Mr. and Mrs. Bartlett's Society, made it all that they desired. Little did the lovers of pleasure, as they sauntered round the elegant grounds, partook of the delicious fruits, and sat down to their luxurious repasts, think of the care which this beautiful establishment, and the ability of entertaining so many friends imposed. Their praises of her skill as a house- keeper, did not always compensate Phemy for the weariness she felt. It would be?relief sometimes, she thought, to be laid on a shelf, or to have a little cot in a wood, where she could enjoy the company of her husband, and attend to her sweet little children. Mrs. Bartlett loved the society of her friends; and the ability to entertain them so much to their acceptance, was reckoned among her blessings. But then there was care and responsibility in presiding over such an establishment, which would have been no inconsiderable burden to one who was   204      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. accustomed to such things; of course it weighed heavily up-  on Euphemia. It was no part of Mr. Bartlett's theory to employ a house- keeper. He would have a sufficient amount of good help, but it was his delight to have them all superintended by his wife. Euphemials good sense, principle, resolution, and merry heart, sustained her under many a heavy burden. But there wer t"nes when she was worn down, and her spirits would  sink with her physical system. It was just after the depart- ure of some gay friends, who had several days been regaled by her choice viands, and admired the anplitude of every department of the domain, though they thoughtlessly won- dered that Phemy would attend so much to domestic concerns, J that- she entered her room, locked the door, and burst into tears. The head of the family cannot long be absent, without - - being missed. i' Phemy!" said Mr. Bartlett, as he came to her door and knocked. "I'm not-here," said Phemy. "Who is?" "A little ungrateful wretch, that I do n't want you to see." Wc Where is my wife?" "In Lamentations," said Phemy, as she unlocked the door. "What's the matter, Phemy? Can't you be happy with your husband and dear little children,'when your company is  gone?" " "I hope you don't think I m crying for company," said Phemy, smiling through her tears. "That will come any day,; fast enough, without my taking that trouble" p "Well, then, what is the matter?" "I've been thinking what slaves we are to the public. - We keep this great house, and entertain company, till I am so tired I can't enjoy anything."   A DOMESTIC SCENE.        205 "I thought you loved company! "So I do, my friends, and in moderate quantities; but half of those who come here are attracted by the good things they have to eat, and the pleasant strolls they can have in our grounds; they care little for us, if it were not for our adjuncts." "They seem to enjoy themselves very much." "Yes, but what is sport to them is death to me." I've been wishing I lived in some snug little place, where I could enjoy the society of you and the children, and have. only the com- pany of those who are really congenial." "It has been for your sake, principally, that I have invited so much, and now that theyhave begun to come, I don't know really how to stop them." "I should like the company well enough, if it were not for the care of their entertainment." "Why do you do so much?"  "Because they expect it. They know webare able, and it would look either as though I did not know how, or appear niggardly, and now comes my ingratitude and wickedness I was thinking over my cares, and saying, ' blessed be nothing,' when you came to the door." "O, Phemy," said Mr. Bartlett, "just think what you was saying!"   .  "I know it!- - did n't I tell you I was wicked? and so I came' and locked myself up here: that's the way naughty children are treated. But it is a truth- - our very abundance is at this moment a trouble to me. This place is a paradise, but I cannot any longer endure the cares which its supervision brings, without a house-keeper. Just see how everything looks! You cannot feel satisfied with a house in such a state." "But, my dear, you are tired now; things will not look so after you'are rested." "But when shall I get any rest? Before I get over this 18   206      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. fit of weeping, some one of our numerous acquaintance may be here. You know our place and fruits are just in their glory." "I know it; you ought to have some rest. It is strange I have not thought of it before. You must take a little jour- ney."                  . "I should like that, much," replied Phemy; , how soon will you go?" "I? oh! I cannot go. I am sorry to say, the fruit and the other things never required my presence more; but I 'll- put you under the care of some one of our acquaintance, who has shared our hospitality, and send-Rosa with you, so that you will not need me very much." "That's quite a different tling," replied Phemy. "If you can't go, I do n't care about it. This only brings out more of my wicked feelings. I expect I shall be punished with pov- . erty for it one of these days. -I wishrwe could have these good things, without so much care and vexation attending them. Your beautiful grounds and fruit keep you at home to take care of them, when you want to be journeying with your wife. It really makes me feel cross. It draws company in such excess, that I am obliged to flee from it, when it is the most delightful. If you must stay, let me stay too, and get me a house-keeper, and we will enjoy instead of repine at our blessings.". "Phemy,'" said Mr. B., " if you have not help enough, you shall have moj; but consider, if you have a house-keeper  you must give up the care to her, and you will grow feeble and imbecile, like Delia Chester. Just look at the difference  between her and Helen. They were brought up alike. One grows in mental and physical strength, encumbered with cares fully equal to yours, because she is obliged to exert herself; and the other is, enfeebled and unhappy, because she is con-   A DOMESTIC SCENE.        207 stantly striving to get rid of care and labor. Labor is part of the doom which was pronounced on all mankind, therefore it is universal. Believe me, Phemy, we can't get rid of the curse; the only way to make it endurable, is to embrace it. Treat labor or care, as the bear does his victim,--hug it to death. and instead of being hurt by your efforts, you will be stronger, and your hands filled with precious spoil.? "Yes, but the bear could not hug, if he did not know how, and had not strength. Helen Morse is a noble example, but she has served a regular apprenticeship. She sailed before the mast first, and thus became prepared for the station of captain, and she can keep it with honor. I am like a student from one of the universities, leaving his Latin and Greek, and with his silk gloves, and ignorance of navigation, going at once at the head of a 'man of war.' Helen's strength and facility of execution, are the result of good teaching and long practice. She never could have done what she has, if she had not been inured to it by degrees. Whatever I have ac- complished, and it is little enough, is the sudden hot-house growth of resolution, excited by a desire to please my hus- band. 'I had no previous physical preparation for such a task, and because I ' have no depth of earth,' I shall ' wither away,' and sink under it. Mushroom ability is as transient as mushroom gentility." "You don't look much like withering," said Bartlett, affectionately; "you are as blooming a young lady, as I know about here." "I do n't feel in a mood for compliments now," said Phemy, "with the weight of all this care resting upon me, and crush- ing me. I wish my mother had brought me up properly, and then I should have been fit for something." "Come, come, you are getting nervous. I wish every mother succeeded as well with her child. She has reason to   208      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. be proud of you. I am  sure I am. Pon't blame your. mother for not bringing you up like Helen Morse, There was a difference in your situation, which would 'have made it improper. You know I believe in training girls so that they should know how to superintend domestic affairs, but I want them ladies and well educated. You must not be too radical. When you get a little more rested, you will be as liberal as I am, and you used to think I was not any too much so."     "1 believe in a iadys Ireceiving an education, such as would fit her to be a lady and maintain it, and that would not be such an education as 1 have had. I know of no hu- man beings more to be pitied than those young ladies who; are educated to be ladies, according to the present custom. They are educated to get married, but with no competent  knowledge how to perform the duties resulting from that state, to their own comfort, or their husband's satisfaction." "Amen to that," said Mr. Bartlett, " but your good sense made you an exception." "You wont say amen, when you hear all I have to say, for I feel very saucy this morning." ' Well, let's hear it," said her husband. "It 's some sensi- ble remark, I dare say." "So you are going to flatter me, and take the edge off; but you should have waited till I was through. I was going to say, begging your pardon for being so disrespectful, that your ideas of female education are about as sensible and practical as my ideas of housekeeping were, when I was married. You want the result, without the preparatory steps, just like ald other gentlemen. I was brought up in a hot-house, and Helen Morse in the fresh breeze, andp the sunshine and storm of the open sky; and yet you expect the'poor J hot-  i house nursling to breast as firmly the tempests, and be as   A DOMESTIC SCENE.       209 vigorous in the droughts of this rough world, as the plant from the very germ acclimated to it."     l "I expect you to do just as you have done, my dear; I have not found fault with you," said Mr. Bartlett, tenderly; "I repeat it, I am proud of my wife; and the fact, tlat with your training you have done so well, is a demonstration that the thing can be done, and shows I am not so u practi- cal as you thought me. But I think you are tired, and- you must certainly rest, and then you will see things as I do." ' No amount of rest will ever make me feel that we think alike upon this subject. I have been taught by experience, and think that my views of the way in which a lady should be educated, are right." "Well, let's hear the result of your experience," said Mr. Bartlett, smiling, as he looked at her youthful face. "Days should speak, and multitud  ears should teach wis- dom."               - Phemy looked up good naturedly at her husband's harm- less satire, and replied: "I wish I could make every mother in the land feel as I do. The greatest lady should have some definite time devoted to the practical knowledge of domestic affairs, and that should be considered an inportant, respect- able, and honorable part of her education. She should not be interrupted in her attention to these duties, to attend to company, any more than she should be disturbed in the pursuit of oth er branches of her education. The idea that anything which is a duty is degrading, especially in a lady, and is to be attended to- only slyly, incidentally, and when time can be spared from those pursuits which are less im- portant, is a great falsehood -it's a crying sin,- it makes me cry, any how. Exercise about house, is the kind of calisthenics I'd have them practise, in connection with those   210      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. studies which are more refined. When they had in this way acquired solidity enough for ' corner stones,' I'd have them 'polished after the similitude of a palace.' Then when they enter upon the active duties of lifE, they will not have to learn as they go along, forgetting their intellectual attain.- ments, in their attempts to attend to the realities of life. They would grow more interesting, instead of less so, after they were married. Their bloom and beauty would last longer, and their minds be so well regulated, and increasing in knowledge, that when they did fade, they would cease to be neglected like an old almanac, but be as interesting as some gentlemen are, who are not very young." "You need not fear about being neglected yet; it is a long time, I hope, before your beauty will fade ; and you are after my own heart in your views of education of daughters, so I expect ours will be brought up as they should b" I expect I shall abide by my principlein their educa. tion, pretty much as you did by yours, in the selection of your wife.' ,' If you succeed as much to your satisfaction as I did, you will be fortunate, and I shall be contented." s If you are satisfied with your wife, it is more than she is with herself, and if theory would bring up the children right, it would certainly be done. But it is one thing to snap the ,whip of satire at the follies of others, and laugh to see them wince as it cracks over their heads, and another, to sit down humbly, and mend one's own faults." "Very true, it is another thing; but I know you too well  to think you mean to stop at theory, You never deliber- ately make up your mind that a thing is right, without trying to Iput it into practice." "I intend to try, of course; but just look at the practical difficulties in the way, and then judge what chance my poor , .1     a2(hn   A DOMESTIC SCENE. 21 children have, of being brought up according to my excellent theory. A mother must know something herself, and set a good example, if she would bring up her children well. I am so little acquainted with my duties, and so fretted by things that ought to set easy, that I cannot be gentle and patient with them as I ought. When the little things are asleep, I think how impolitic it is to be so hasty; sometimes I get nervous about it, and spend the whole night in repent. ing, when I ought to be sleeping. I resolve to be everything that is good and lovely to them, and long for the morning, that I may, put my resolutions in practice. But when morn- ing comes, I am so weak from having slept so little, that I. frequently begin to fret at them before breakfast. Then the poor things get irritated, and I make work for myself all day. I believe it is ofprimary importance to teach them to possess a meek and quiet spirit, by example--to be patient with children,--and I am in a fine state for that! Then think, too, of a mother's having children entrusted to her care, when she knows nothing about their physical frame. How can she make them good soldiers, unless she knows how to make them hardy? I've studied Astronomy, and learned about the heavenly bodies, with which I have little or nothing to do, and am ignorant how to treat those bodies which I should make ' meet temples for the indwelling of the Holy Ghost.' I have actually leaped at stars, and here I am, fastened in the mud!" "Your head is not muddy, at any rate; but you need rest, that is a clear case. I 'll leave all, and go with you. I ought to have seen that you have had a great deal to contend with. I 'll try to be more attentive in future, and help you to over- come those things with which you struggle." "No, no, I do n't wish you to leave, when you are needed so much at home; you must not think of it."   CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. But you ought to go - and it is no more than I should do, if some business called me. What more important busi- ness can I have, than doing that which is for the best good of my wife and family ?" "But I am not so great a baby, as to make such a sacrifice necessary. If you think I ought to go, and I believe you are right, I'11 go in the way you proposed at first. I do n't feel so wicked now. It helps me wonderfully to know that you see that I have difficulties to encounter. I'11 go, and try to get strength to overcome them." Mr. Bartlett procured a quiet boarding place, in a retired country town, where he sent his wife and children, with a servant, in company of a gentleman and lady of congenial spirit. As Phemy left, Mr. Bartlett said, in his character- istic way,"' do n't stay too long ! Rest, after it is unnecessary, enfeebles. I have a very benevolent reason for not wishing to be alone a great while." Mrs. Bartlett's departure was sudden and unexpected to  her friends. Mrs. Van Vecton arrived a few moments after. Mr. Bartlett was in his orchard, assisting his laborers in their work upon his trees, as industriously as though he was one of them, and obliged by necessity to exert himself to the utmost. "What has happened?" said Mrs. Van Vecton, as he shortly appeared in his working dress, in answer to a sum- mons from the house. "c 0! nothing, only Phemy's gone away a little while, to get rested. Make yourself at hodne. I'll do my best to' entertain you." " Poor child!" said Mrs. Van Vecton; " I should'think she would need some 'change.' Here she's been, cooped up all summer. I do n't see how she has endured it so long! I have been travelling all the season, and with all that, Wil-   liam and I do n't know what to do with ourselves. How can you stay in one place so long, with so few excitements ?" It 's because we have something to do." "I did n't know but you'd failed; I came here, and found Phemy gone, and you so hard at work!" " Did I look so dejected, that you surmised such a thing ?" "No, you did n't look as though you had time to be un- happy about anything." " Well, that's what I was working for. I should die, as you say, if I did not do something." "I do n't think it's respectable for one of your property and station, to go out in the dirt, and work so like a common laborer," said the elegant Lizzy, whose languid grace, so strikingly contrasted with Mr. Bartlett's manly and decidedly utilitarian appearance. "What's the use in being' rich, if you can't enjoy yourself? " "So I say," said Mr. Bartlett; "and that's the reason I work. I never enjoyed myself better. I tell you, Lizzy, I have been 'through the mill.' I have run the same fruitless race, that you are running. I have visited watering places, rolled nine-pins, played at checkers and chess, more hours, and worked harder than I do now, and felt unsatisfied all the time. I worked harder then, and did nothing; now I work hard, and do something, and as you say, get so engaged in it, that I have no time to be unhappy. My sleep is sweet, my health is good, and. in my opinion it is more becoming the station of a rich man to plant trees, or to take care of them for the benefit of posterity, than to spend his precious time in doing. no good to himself or others." Well, well, I dare say you are happy in your way; but you know you and I never agreed about some things. But where's Phemy gone? I believe we '11 go there, too."  CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.             "You wont leave me to-night! Stay and see how well I'll keep ' bachelor's hall.'" "Oh! you're busy, and it seems like a funeral, when Phemy's gone." The next boat that passed, took the pleasure seeking couple, and left Mr. Bartlett to his interesting labors.   CHAPTER XV. UNEXPECTED CHANGES. " HIe nothing knows, who knows not this, That earth can yield no settled bliss, No lasting portion give. He all things knows, who knows to placo His hopes on Christ's redeeming grace, Who died that we might live." IT is a bright but cold winter's day. Sleighs ar/ rapidly coursing the avenues, and bells ringing merrily,~s  parties, light hearted and gay, are riding comfortably in cloaks and furs, save the sharp tingling, and red grip, which the frosty air impudently leaves upon their uncovered faces. The steam ascends as from so many boiling caldrons, as they open their mouths, and vainly mocks their desire for the comfort of a fire, which this semblance creates.  Mrs. Ches- ter is seated by the window of a  warm, luxurious apartment, where the bright and burning coals in the grate send out a heat which pervades every part of it, and throws a cheerful and inviting  aspect over everything around, from  the burn- ished shovel, tongs and poker, which serve, or stand and wait upon the checkered marble, to the ample mirror, which reflects the bright and cheerful beams. The long damask and muslin curtains are so festooned over the windows, as to-- exclude much of the sun, even at this inclement season, and at the imperious demand of fashion, so darkens the room, as to render the light of the bright fire the more cheering and acceptable. A large picture of the Sleepy Preacher, by Hogarth, and several smaller ones, and a statue of Venus   -216      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. di Medici, might lead us to suppose we were in the parlor, did not the shelves, which occupy one side of the room from floor to ceiling, well filled with books in elegant bindings, and of rare worth, show us-our mistake. On a lounge, near the fire, Mr. Chester is reclining. He is more unwell than usual. A ringing in his ears, and unpleasant fulness in his head, accompanied with dizziness, have rendered-him quite uncom- fortable for several days. To-day he sleeps, or rather dozes, Wpon the sofa, supported by pillows. Nothing will induce him to apply the numerous remedies offered, or go to his chamber, and take to his bed. "It seems," he says, " too much like being sick; " so he persists in remaining in the library, though it is evident the bed would be a mnore suitable and comfortable place. The stillness is broken, and Mrs. Chester's reading is in- terrupted by the entrance of Ella, a slight, tall, graceful girl, with the step and bearing of her mother. She has just come in from a walk, and the sharp air has given a color to her delicate complexion, and her long, glossy curls are tossed care- lessly back, in her eagerness to show her treasure. "See, mamma," and she opened a white pasteboard box, and displayed a pattern dress of straw colored satin, em- broidered heavily around the bottom, "this is what Aunt Augusta sent me home from Paris, by Mrs. McGuire. She says I must wear it when I come out into society. 1Oh! how happy I shall be then! That wont be a great while first, I hope, mamma." "It is truly a magnificent dress, my dear; but you must not be in too much haste to wear it. Remember you are a - little girl yet." c- Martha Cheever came out when she was fifteen, and she is not as tall as I am. Do say I need not wait any longer than she did."   I AN UNEXPECTED CHANGE. 217 "If you should be brought out as early ad11  will have to wait a year first.',     Martha, you "I wish I could double that year under, and fasten it down," said Ella, as she hung the dress on her arm,and gazed at it in an ecstasy. Bring your dress here, End let me see it," said r. Ches ter, who now opened his eyes. "Are you sick, dear father?" said Ella, as she handed it to him, and kissed his burning forehead. Mr. Chester admired the dress, returned her caresses, prshed back her luxuriant curls, gazed at her with paternal fondness, and then closed his eyes as if som pafee had come over him.            Painfulfeling "o h          betrcarry your dress away now, my dear," said lfrs. Chester, and shut the door softly so as not to dis-r turb your father."           so as ot to di "She is a beautiful child" said r. Chester, gai open- ing his eyes as Ella left the room. r- Chetr aa  P "Yes, " replied Delia; , were what she was ask'in , e? re you awake enough to hear "Yes, I heard  " At these words he sank back, apparently fainting.  Chester :rang the bell for assistance. ",Tell James to go for the doctor," said Delia, as Bridget answered the bell, , and bring some camphor and water, im mediately."               a There was a srange flush in his face for one who had fainted, and the w ter that as applied to it, made but little impression. The doctor's looks, as he exanined the ease gave but slight encouragement. The s   enseless man was b   ^oe u       s   The senseless man was borne u    the shoulders of strong men, to tohat bed fro which he had shrunk, during the several preceding days. The darkened chambel; the soft footsteps, the anxious faces.   2ts  .   CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. and hurrying of servants to and fro on the morrow, showed that disease had neither yielded to the gentle nursing of Delia, whose tenderness was now thoroughly roused, nor to the harsher treatment of bleeding and blisters. Delia scarcely left the bedside, forgetting her own weakness, in the more distressing illness of her husband. ," You had better take care of yourself, madam," said the doctor; "think what would become of the family, if both of you should be prostrated at the same time." "When he gets a little better," said Delia, "I mean to repay myself by taking ample rest." "Depend upon it, you must not wait for that, madam," said the doctor, in a tone which made Delia feel she must yield. She withdrew to her room, and endeavored to seek some repose for the coming trial, which she feared was awaiting her. The doctor left soon after he had prevailed upon Mrs. Chester to retire, telling the nurse he would be in again, in a short time. Mrs. Chester had lain but a few moments, when the cham- bermaid entered, pale and trembling. "What's the matter?" said Delia, starting up. "Mr. Chester----" e Delia waited to hear no more. Rushing into the room, she finds no cause of wonder at the girls paleness. Mr. Chester, in a fit of insanity, has torn off his bandage from his arm, and the blood is flowing copiously in every direction. It is in vain the nurse attempts to bind it 'up again. The strength of delirium is too great for one sane person. Soon, however, the flowing blood causes him to lie more passive. His eyes have a more sane aspect, and turning an affection- ate, painful glance to Delia, he seized her hand, and utters, in a mournful tone, the then incomprehensible words, "; I have deeply wronged you, - forgive me." '   AN UNEXPECTED CHANGE..       219- "Poor man! he knows not what he says," observed Delia. The delirium returns, - the breathing becomes short, the eyes ghastly and fixed, the cold sweat stands upon his fore- head,--the struggle with the king of terrors, for a lime, makes all hearts quail, - then the convulsed form is straight- ened and still in death. "Wronged me!" said Delia, as she bent over the corpse, after she had sent out all the attendants. "It is I who. have wronged you! I have professed to be a child of God, and yet lived in such a way as to exert no saving influence upon you."  With remorse and many tears, Delia left the lifeless corpse of him, who, notwithstanding his faults, was so en- gaging in life, and in death was not repulsive, to the more business-like hands who attended to the few wants of de- ceased humanity, and attired it for the grave. How changed that chamber, which a few hours before was cumbered with so many adjuncts of the sick-room. Some bottles of cologne and rose-water, which stood sentry beside the glass upon the rich mahogany dressing-table, have for a few  days been rivalled by the-more matter-of-fact looking flask, the small round pink box, the slender phial, half filled with a dark colored mixture, and a tumbler and spoon, which have been in more frequent requisition, and maintained their vigils upon a light-stand near the bed. They are now re- moved; a narrow cot stands beside the French bedstead, altd he whose head, which has so lately reposed upon the square- ruffled pillows, is muffled and stretched upon a board that is laid upon the cot. In place of the warm fire which has issued from the dark grate, diffusing its cheerfulness over the otherwise melancholy room, the cold sharp air is- rushing through the open windows, and swaying, in mournful grace, the smooth, glossy linen sheet, checkered with the creases of its numerous folds, which has been thrown over the cot, and   220      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. reaches to the floor on either side. Everything looks severe- ly decorous, and a solemn silence reigns in the room. Mrs. Chester's strength sinks, in proportion as it had risen above its usual level. Absorbed in feelings of remorse, she gives up to the overwhelming affliction, and leaves the para- phernalia of the funeral to be settled by others. Black crape muffles the bell, and the whole household are robed in gar- ments of sable hue. The princely mansion is again thrown open for the reception of numerous friends, who come by invitation; and carriages throng the street near the door, many of them bringing the same gay elite, that have attended Mrs. Chester's brilliant parties. But there is one carriage there, with its velvet pall, and sable plumes, the sight of which causes a thrill of horror, and shows how different the occasion of the concourse. The usual display of cut glass and plate, and costly viands, give place to the more costly feast for worms, seen through the glass of the rich mahogany coffin, studded with silver. The imposing procession moves forward to the lovely spot chosen for his quiet resting place, made as soothing as possi- ble to the feelings of the mourners, by perfecting and im- proving its natural beauties, but which nevertheless is a grave-yard still. The coffin is deposited in the grave, the earth thrown over it, and the friends, one after another, re-  turn to their cheerful homes, leaving the bereaved family to that oppressive stillness and loneliness, which make the afflic- tion much more real, than during the excitement attending the obsequies. Mrs. Chester keeps her chamber, and gives herself over to melancholy, which bids fair to destroy what little health remains, - to render useless the good resolves that she has made, because they are not strengthened and enlivened by being put into immediate execution. How long this state of   AN INEXPECTED CHANGE.       221 things would have continued, it is not Easy to determine. A fortunate, but unexpected affliction, roused her dormant en- ergies. Providence curing this affliction, as it often does, by sending another of such a startling nature, as to make the first almost unnoticed. The time came when the estate of the deceased must be settled, according to law, and then the developments! Then came the deep meaning of Mr. Ches- ter's dying words. It appeared, that in order to gratify his extravagant and indolent habits, Mr. Chester had supported his family for the last few years by speculation and gam- bling, and having been more unsuccessful in his last specula- tion, in which he had risked more than usual, he had foreseen the ruin that was coming upon his family; and the knowledge of this, acting upon a temperament long stimulated with high e  Vwinles, had caused this fearful disorder of the brain, and his untimely death. But a few weeks before his death, 3ir. Chester disposed of the last remnant of the real estate left him by his father, and when coming to his wife for her signature to the deed, he remarked with much elation, that he had made $30,000 upon that little portion. This fortunate sale, while it served to confirm Mrs. Chester's confidence in her husband's pecuniary ability, was the means of depriving her of that support by right of dower, which she might otherwise have received. Part of the avails of this sale had been used to defray gambling debts, and the remainder invested in speculation. When this speculation proved unsuccessful, most of the household furniture had been mortgaged to satisfy impatient creditors. Mrs. Chester suppose herself independent, and it was a lmard task for the adminrator to apprise her of her true situation. Delia was in her chamber when he came upon this unpleasant errand, absorbed in a selfish sorrow, which 19'   222      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. leaves all living comforts and present duties, to mourn over departed joys and lost opportunities of doing good, afflicting her soul in splendid misery. s Mr. Van Dyke is in the drawing room, madam, and would like to see you," said the waiter, with fawning obse- quiousness. 4' Ask him to call again; I cannot see him to-day,' said MFrs. Chester. The administrator, knowing the expensive style of living must be stopped, sent again an urgent request to be allowed an interview. With reluctance Mrs. Chester meets him in the library. Her tall figure, arrayed entirely in black, her pale, languid countenance, excite his interest and pity. Feeling as he did, that the announcement might destroy the little energy, hope, and perhaps life, that remained, it required either moral courage or a hard heart to proceed with the melancholy duty. Mr. Van Dyke was a good man, a Christian, and, of course, did not feign the sympathy-he expressed. c' I am sorry to disturb you, and I would not trouble you with such unpleasant business if I could avoid it," said he, holding out his hand. "Yes," replied Delia, "it is like tearing open a wound afresh to attend to these cold business affairs. I feel perfect confidence in you, and would prefer you should act according to. your judgment, without troubling yourself to consult me." ' I wish things were in such a state that I could. You have sustained a great loss, and, believe me, it is hard to add to your affliction." Mrs. Chester considered it an additional affliction to be called upon to attend to business, so she did not understand the hints which the good man attempted to throw out, and thereforgthhe announcement came upon her like a thunder-   AN UNEXPECTED CHANGE.       223 bolt. She did not weep, neither did she faint. There is something in deep anguish which,'like fierce pain, awakes the'resolution. Her countenance assumed an ashy paleness, and she grasped the arms of her chair for support, while with a fixed gaze she listened to all he had to say, then withdrew to her chamber,- and threw herself upon her bed in the agony of despair. For a short time she seemed crushed with the suddenness and weight of her affliction, so as almost to render her insensible; but soon the necessity which called ( for immediate action, roused her to her true situation. She rose, and for hours walked her chamber, turning over in her mind alternately, the all-important question, "What shall I do?" and the apparent helplessness ahd hopelessness of Pter situation. The very elegances of her room seemed to mock her sorrows. "Must I leave you all?" she exclaimed, like Eve. "O, how poorly am 'I prepared, by this life of luxury, to meet adversity! But if it were only for myself, I could bear it,- but my children! O, thou God of the widow and the fatherless, have mercy upon them. -I have played the fool with my children. They can do nothing for their own support, and they are so delicate that they cannot en- dure the trials of poverty. They who most need money can do the least to earn it, and what can I do in my feeble health, with these five children dependent upon me for their daily bread? Iam not able to do anything, and they cannot wait upon themselves even, much less earn their own living. If they had been brought up as I was, they might now earn their own support easily; but they have everything to learn, and, worse than all, they have been brought up to be ashamed to labor,--yes, to look upon those who labor for their own support, as below them. Was it to render my children incap ble of taking care of themselves, and then to b dashed fron such a height when I was the least able to i   \.     I   224      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. bear it, that I wished to be rich? A fool's wish was mine, truly! There is one thing I will do immediately," said she, with energy. "I will remove my family at once, from their present associations, to the country, where it is rpelutable to work. - Yes, I'll go to K . The children can learn to work in straw, as I did; I'll open a boarding house, which will give us a home, and the free schools will educate them." A bright ray of hope seemed to dawn upon her mind, and lighted up her countenance, as she exclaimed, "Thank God for the country and free schools." Mrs. Chester's parents were neitherof them living. Her brother Gworge she had for years considered dead, and Tim- othy, if living, was absent from the country. No one of her relatives remained with whom she could consult, save Helen. Delia wrote immediately to her, requesting her to procure a house if possible, but if all were occupied, to obtain a few rooms, where she might at once remove her family. She informed Helen that her circumstances were reduced, but forbore to trouble her with the extent of her misfortunes. Helen's reply was prompt, and full of sympathy. She wrote that there was no tenement that could be obtained till Spring, if then, but invited Delia to come and stay with her until some one was yacated, or she could make some/ other arrangement, Intruding herself upon Helen, whose house was none too large for herself, and whose heart and hands were full of cares, did not accord with Delia's sense of propriety or inde- pendence. . All night she was busy making and rejecting plans. TWo things were clear, a humble home must be procured somewhere immediately, and work obtained. Enough could be had in New York, but to submit to such a humiliation among the scenes of her former grandeur, and exposed to   -AN UNEXPECTED CHANGE.       225 the gaze of her heartless associates, was not to be endured for a moment. In some ofthe neighboring cities she might be buried in seclusion, and thither she resolved to go. With the assistance of Mr. Van Dyke, and the promise of secrecy as to her future location, a small tenement was procured in' Albany, which she thought would answer her purpose. Se- lecting some of 'the plainest articles of her furniture, she hastily prepared to leave forever her luxurious home. All the furniture which she did not take was left standing in its usual places, awaiting its sale under the auctioneer's ham- mer. With many tears, andf-alone, Mrs. Chester visited every room, and took a silent farewell of the objects bound to her heart by so many associations. It was a bitter thought, that they were no longer hers; but she had given i them up, and there was now only one object she coveted. It was Ella's piano. Long she stood before it. "Could I but take you," she exclaimed, " and Ella have the opportunities for instruction that she once had, I know they would now be improved, and this would be a means of support; but no, I cannot; by my thoughtlessness you are mortgaged. Truly the destruction of the poor is their poverty. But I deserve it all. The children must learn the value of their privileges by hard necessity, when I fear it is too late. But will Eugene, who has always been brought up to look down upon the laboring classes, ever submit to the humiliation of honest toil? O, what will save him from  a life of shame and crime?  Nothing, nothing," she repeated with energy, "but the restraining grace of God; the ' King's heart is in the hands of the Lord, and he can turn it whithersoever he will,' and there I must leave him, and all my other children." And where else could you trust them if they had continued in the state of luxury in which they were reared? said con- science. Were they safe, then, without the grace of God?   g226 CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. Delia was startled; she knew this before, but never felt it as she did now. She had been. mourning over Eugene's de- generate habits, and fearing his parents' wealth would be his ruin, and was he really as safe as before? Certainly. But would not the temptations which would arise from the shame and hardships of want, be too powerful for one to bear, who had enjoyed so much prospelrity? They might, but they were no more calculated to do so than the luxurious life he had been leading. "(Then, in the most important point of all, I am as well off as before," she exclaimed, with clasped hands, and eyes lifted to heaven. "To God I com- mit him. I deserve no favors; I can have no cause of complaint if He does not hear me. But how can I trust Him, or expect He will take care of me and mine, when I have so abused His mercies? A voice seemed to answer, 'If you trust in God because you deserve his blessings, your hope is in vain.' "True," said Delia, "'t is the gilty that may hope since a Saviour hath died, and surely Ipm such. Lord, I believe, help thou 'mine unbelief," she exclaimed, as with tears she knelt in prayer,- the humble, chld-like prayer of faith; and there was bliss in those tears- they were a relief to her pent-up agony, and she exclaimed in the words of that beautiful hymn,- "How can I sink with such a prop, As my eternal God I Who bears the earth's huge pillars up, And spreads the heavens abroad." As a child leans trustingly upon the bosom of its parent, Mrs. Chester leaned upon her Heavenly Father, and all was peace, but it was not a peace which was inactive. In the true spirit of faith, she began at once to do cheerfully what seemed her present duty.   AN UNEXPECTED CHANGE.      227 She rose, and assembled her children in the library. She had not before dared name the subject of her misfortunes to Eugene, but now she leaned upon a stronger arm than her own, and felt equal to the task. To Ella, the information ,was not entirely new. Her mother had gradually prepared her for the mournful intelligence, but now that it was fully explained, it seemed to weigh down the delicate plant. - Her slight frame trembled, and her countenance was pale, while she looked at her mother, to see if she could derive any sup- port from her. Mrs. Chester was perfectly calm. Her grief had found a vent before, and her trust in God caused her face to shine upon that little sorrowful company like the bow of promise upon the dark clouds. The little ones began to feel that it could not be so very bad, after all, if mamma was so calm and happy. Mrs. Chester's eye frequently wandered to Eugene, to watch the working of his feelings. He sat like one amazed, not deigning to shed a tear; his head was bowed down, and for a few moments he said not a word. George and Luna were very sorry they could not go into the country imme- diately. Mrs. Chester told 'them " it would'be pleasanter in the Spring, when the flowers were in bloom; at present, the ground was all covered with snow." Luna was soon satis- fied, but George would have preferred the country, snow and all, little realizing, if his mother were with him, and he could have plenty of play, the trouble which the loss of property would create. "I hope you will not be cast down," said Mrs. Chester to Eugene and Ella. "With the blessing of God, nothing is out of the reach of honest industry and enterprise. We must begin small, and find our pleasure in overcoming our difficulties. Do n't you think we cn?" and she looked to both fobr a reply.   228      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "I can try, mamma," said Ella, weeping bitterly. "I hain't seen any pleasure in it yet," said Eugene, evi- dently in a deep study. "You can be of great help to me if you try, Eugene. I hope you will be a son, of, whom your father would not be ashamed, if he were alive." Eugene had always loved his father, and-now, at the men- tion of his name, his tears flowed freely. He was willing to be seen to weep for the loss of his father, but not for the loss of property. He could not bear to think he was poor- that thought made him sullen; and he still leaned his head on his hand, and shaded his eyes. Mrs. Chester alternately watched him, and mentally prayed that he might be pre- served from evil, till the striking of the little alabaster clock reminded her itwas time to hasten. She then commenced dressing the younger children in cloaks and furs, and re- quested Eugene and Ella to make ready as soon as possible. Ella obeyed at once, and Eugene went out as readily. "Now," said he to himself, as he shut the door, " now is my time. I am not going to disgrace myself, or father, by plod- ding round, doing chores and the like. I can get a living by my wits, and"I intend to do it." A voice seemed to say, "but will you grieve your mother so much as to leave her " now?"  "It wouldn't grieve her long," was the deceitful reply that was suggested. "If I take myself off, she'll have one less to support, and that 'll more than make up. I 11 tell her I 'U walk to the boat, and that 'll save the hack hire of one person, but I reckon I 'll walk a little farther, before I'll go and stick myself down in some little nest in Albany, while I know the difference between one card and another as well as I do now." So saying, he stepped upon a box, in the hall, to reach his over-coat from the hat-tree. In getting   AN UNEXPECTED CHANGE.       229 down, he suddenly turned his ankle, and so sprained it, that he could not walk without assistance. "It is strange how one trouble reconciles us to another," said Mrs. Chester to herself, as she entered, and ascertained the extent of the accident. "It is really a great misfortune to a family dependent upon their own exertions for support, to have one of the oldest and strongest so maimed; but there may be mercy in it to me. If Eugene does not like his home now, he cannot be running in the streets, and God may have sent this upon him to give him time to think." Eugene now gave up all thoughts of running away for the present. Like all other boys, when he was sick, or in pain, he knew of nothing better than a mother's attentions, and no place better than home, even though that home was not to his mind.  The sprain was very painful, and the accident caused a delay of a few hours, obliging the party to take one of the afternoon, instead of the morning boats. And now behold the stricken family located in a little tenement in the third story of a large, respectable looking brick house in Albany. The lower stories are occupied by a small but intelligent family of a mechanic, whose business yields him a  good income, and whose style of living lays some claim to gentility. So far as external appearances are concerned, the house does not mortify Mrs. Chester's pride as much as she feared. It is a dwelling she is willing her associates should see her enter. How is it with the interior? One square back chamber, out of which opened two bed. rooms, a good sized pantry, and one small room in the attic, comprise her home. The walls are white-washed, and the paint evidently just renewed. A carpet, from one of the upper rooms, and which was not included in the mortgaged furniture. sha hemrrlh ity h, .    .. .., ...   1 230     CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. A sofa bedstead was placed between the windows, so that those who were sitting upon it, would have their backs to the unpleasant prospect from the windows. A stove, con- structed for burning either wood or coal, with an oven at the back, and a place on the top for a kettle, which was covered with a handsome urn, stood in its proper place before the chimney. Some painted window curtains shaded the win- dows; a plain dining table, that stood opposite the stove, a work-stand in the corner, and a few cane seat chairs, com- posed the furniture of parlor and kitchen. Here their frugal meals were to be cooked and eaten, the fuel and water brought up three flights of stairs, and the work for their Csupport to be performed. It was late when all was arranged to her satisfaction; the fire gleamed through the grate of the stove, and shed a cheerful aspect over this new home among strangers. A stand is placed before the fire, the lamps are lighted, and with their books in their hands, they all draw around it. What book is that to which they now turn for solace, and which can lift their thoughts above their trials? It was the Bible, which had been coldly read as a duty, and often with so little interest, in the days of their prosperity. Now the story of the Widow of Sarepta has a charm unequalled by the most highly wrought romance.  The precious promises: "Trust in the Lord and .do good, and verily thou shalt dwell in the land, and be fed;" "Take no thought for the things of the morrow;" "Consider the lilies of the field; they toil not, neither do they spin; and yet I say unto you, Solomon in all his glory, was not arrayed like one of these;" "Shall God clothe the grass of the field, whichl today is, and to-morrow is cast into the oven, and shall he not clothe you, O ye of. little faith;" "Leave thy fatherless children with me, and let thy widows trust in me," are drafts ,nnn Him to whom belongeth the silver and the gold, and   AN UNEXPECTED CHANGE.       231 the mother, with kindling faith, presents them this evening for acceptance. As they kneel around that humble hearth, and Mrs. Chester commends herself and little ones to the God of the widow and the fatherless, the divinely appointed prayer for " daily bread,"  is no unmeaning petition. Delia confesses, with many tears, her neglect of God and his mercies, that she has wasted her substance in riotous living, and now humbly asks to become a hired servant in her father's house, where there is bread enough and to spare. She {eels that she is heard. "Unto this man will I look, even to him who is poor, and of a contrite heart, and that  trembleth at my word," are sweet words to her heart. She feels a joy now in that humble room, which she seldom knew l    when surrounded with earthly splendor. She is cut off from her former associates, but there is with her a more glowing and sustaining presence, and her soul is filled with a peace that passeth understanding. She is not insensible to the bitter trials of her situation; it is not in human nature to be indifferent to them, and \ "Grace does not steel the faithful heart, That it should know no ill; We learn to kiss the chastening rod, And feel the sharpness still." ' To-morrow she must go out and make application for work; this she has dreaded almost as much as any portion of her trials, but to-night she loses no sleep on account of it. The fatigues and sorrows of the day yield to the forgetfulness of slumber, almost as soon as she retires; and her senses are locked in sweet refreshing sleep, till the bright morning sun awakes her slumbers. As she opens iher eyes, everything looks strange, and for a few moments she wonders where she   232      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. of her change are evident to her. No servant comes to make the fire, no nurse to dress the children, no cook to pre- pare the breakfast, but she who has not for years arisen till the room was warm, must now rise in the cold, and those -delicate hands - which have been jewelled with rings, must engage in the dirty business of making a coal fire! At least so Mrs. Chester thinks, as shfrises' and begins to dress her shivering limbs; but a surprise, which she little expects, is preparing for her. The previous night, which has been so peaceful and refreshing to her, has been far otherwise to Eugene. The pain in his ankle has caused him much wake- fulness, and in the stillness of the night, when every one else was wrapt in slumber, he could not escape from his own reflections. His late home, so full of comforts and luxuries; his former advantages, and the manner in which he had mis- improved them; the fact that they were lost to him forever; his past disobedience and extravagance, in wasting large sums of money, which if he had now, might be of essential service to the family; his sullenness to his mother, and her kind and gentle attentions to him, though he was so peevish, -all passed in review before him, and caused the tears of remorse and penitence to flow. He resolves, as soon as he should be able to walk again, that he would be a better boy, and do something to support the family. "If I could only walk nowl said he to himself, "I would go out and get a place in some store, and then I should be in a way to earn something. I'll do it as soon as I get 'well, I 'll then begin to be a merchst, and we wont always live in such a home as this." E gene had now struck upon a pleasing train of thought, and he beguiled his wakeful moments in thinking of the happy home, the splendid furniture, and fine clothes he would provide for the family, and the gay horses and elegant carriage, all his own, which should come up to his door. Just   AN UNEXPECTED CHANGE.       233 in the midst of these blissful hopes and imaginings, the moon shone full into hishamber, revealing in chilling contrast, the poverty of his present circumstances; and a severe darting of pain in his ancle, made him feel keeay, that instead of being a rich man, in a fine house, he was a poor, distressed cripple, in the abode of poverty. Many weeks, and perhaps months, might elapse, and O, how long they seemed in pros- pect, before he could do anything! These would be days of sad reality! The tears again flowed freely. Conscience told him his punishment was just, but then it was so severe! What if his ankle should never get well, and have to be cut off! It was night, and all kinds of gloomy apprehensions that brood in darkness, presented themselves, and mingled with his childish fears, and magnified his sufferings. Eugene felt how helpless was his situation; he saw he was dependent upon God for life, and health, and every blessing. God could heal and provide for him, and no one else could! His proud spirit now bows in prayer.  With many tears he promises amendment; and now a new thought is presented to his mind--he can, perhaps, do something to assist his mother, while he is getting well. "I have my hands," said he to himself, "and there are, perhaps, many little things I can do. I'll at least try and do all I can, and see if I can- not help as much as I have hindered." These good resolu- tions calmed his spirit, and while wishing for morning, that he might put them  in practice, he sunk into a disturbed slumber. It was early the next morning when he awoke; his ankle was painful, and he longed for a change, beside being anxious to begin his efforts for the good of the family. George was sleeping soundly beside him.  Eugene knew how to influence others in the right, as well as the wrong path; so he gently shook George, and in the kindest tone spoke to him.   234J      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "Wha'at," said George, rather pettishy, turning over, with his eyes half open, ,' George," whispered Eugene, as kindly as before, "wake up; I want to tell you something that will please you." George now rubbed his eyes, and wanted to know what it was. "Look here," said Eugene; " you know that little knife, with a tortoise-shell handle, and five blades. I'll give it to you, if you will get right up, and do what I want you to." "What is it P' said George, starting up with great alacrity. "I want you should dress yourself, and hand me my clothes and help me put them on, and then you can help me to the stove, and we 'll together make a nice fire, and have the room warm before mamma comes in. Poor mamma; you know she is n't used to getting up in the cold, and if we lose her, we lose all." George's eyes fast filled with tears of sympathy, which almost blinded him, so that he was likely to become a poor assistant, when Eugene added in a cheerful tone, "come, don't cry, that'll hinder you, and we shan't get the fire made so quick! Only think how pleased mamma will be!"  George's countenance brightened, and they were soon heartily at work. They knew nothing about this practically, and their attempts, as they shiver over the cold stove, are awkward enough; but with mutual counsel and assistance, the work progresses slowly.  "I hope mamma wont wake, till we get it nicely to burn- ing," said George; "I can't bear to have her take cold. I never loved her half as well as I do now." , Nor I," said Eugene; "I used to think she did not love us much, because she said she was sick, and sent us away from her; but now she works so hard for us, and is so kind, and tries to please us so much, I see I was mistaken. She   AN UNEXPECTED CHANGE.       235 do nit complain at all, though she looks very pale --I know she do n't feel well, and I never mean to vex her any more, but try and help her all I can." , So do I," said George, most heartily. "I think," said Eugene, " we sha n't have very hard work to make mamma happy, for I've noticed she's been very easily pleased lately, though I can't conceive why she should be so much pleasanter, when everything goes wrong." To their great joy, ltrs. Chester does not come in till the fire is fairly kindled, though the room is fax from being warm. "O! mamma, why did you get up in the cold," they! both exclaim at once. "You are not used to this," added Eugene, tenderly, "and we can't bear to have you take cold." Tears of joy flowed at this reception. M. rs. Chester felt it was worth all she had endured, to see the change in her children, especially in Eugene. When surrounded with servants to run at her bidding, they were absorbed in their own selfish interests, and the request for the smallest favor had been answered, "Can't the waiter or nurse do it," ac- companied by a frown. It was an unexpected joy to see- her wishes anticipated, when she expected each would complain of their own privations. She did fiot see that it was in part her own spirit, reflected in her children. Since her affliction; she had forgotten self, and been making efforts for them, and like all children, they imitated her example, better than they obeyed her precepts. All catch the spirit. Common afflic- tions induce community of interest and sympathy. Now that other friends are fled, they are bound more closely to each other. Now that joys from without are shrouded, there is a kindling of light within. From the mutual sympathy and assistance they render each other, they learn a secret often hidden from the lovers of pleasure, - that the: purest happi--   Z36      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. ness is found in bearing one another's burdens, and so "ful- filling the law of Christ." All think they never knew the others so kind, obliging, and lovely, and individually they strive to imitate and repay the same. The simple breakfast is soon prepared and eaten, the little family are fed with the bread of life, and Mrs. Chester again seeks divine guidance, for the arduous duties of the day. And now comes the severe cross. She must go out and seek employment. So repulsive is it to her feelings, that she ex- claims, as she goes to her room, "If I could but be sustained in the lowly way in which I am now living, without this additional cross, I should be satisfied." But it is duty, and she goes forward, leaning for strength upon Him to sustain her, who laid upon her the burden. As she dresses herself to go out, she is struck with the in- congruity of her clothes, and her present situation. But they were purchased before she knew her poverty; she has no others, and must wear thers, and must wear them. Who that notices that lady- like figure, arrayed as in her former glory, suspects the cause of her errand, as she walks with her usual stately air, sur- veying each sign on -- street. Now she has reached ' Van Tromp & Co. Fashionable Straw and Millinery Goods." The large bow-windows are filled with bonnets and ribbons. She does not allow herself to hesitate for a moment, lest her courage should fail her; but draws herself up, as if conscious of internal dignity, which would compensate for her outward humiliation. Two clerks are busy at the counter; one is waiting upon a woman of ordinary appearance, the other is rolling up ribbons that have been displaced by a former customer. At the farther part of the room, sits a short, cor- pulent man,- with a pleasant countenance, at his desk, writing. The clerk who:was engaged with the ribbons, is before her   AN UNEXPECTED CHANGE. '       237 in a moment, supposing a customer of importance has come. Van Tromp raises his head, and seeing the imposing stranger, goes himself to attend her. There is something, besides her clothes, that gives her an air of superiority. "Is this Mr. Van Tromp?" "It is, madam," said he, with a most gracious bow. "Do you wish to employ a woman to work in straw?" Van Tromp opened Iris eyes in astonishment, and surveyed her with ias scrutinizing a glance as he could command, for ltlia dr ew herself up with dignity, as though it was with her question, and not with her, he had anything to do. He was awe-struck with her manner, and interested, too, for .God had gone before her, and given her favor in his eyes. As if to beg pardon for the freedom with which he gazed at her, he replied, " are you sure, madam, that the woman for whom' you apply is good at this business?" "I will answer for her," replied Delia, " that she can work to your satisfaction. At least, perhaps you will not risk much to try her." "Well, madam," said he, "I will let her have some, at your recommendation, and if she does her work well, she shall have as much as she can do. When will she call?" "This little boy will take it," said Mrs. Chester, turning to George. Van Tromp selected an inferior article for her first ex- periment, and theX left the shop, relieved of a great burden. So anxious fhad Delia been lest she should be denied work, that instead of dwelling upon the humiliation of seeking it, she was filled with thankfulness at her success. It is easy to return to the habits of childhood. With a plenty of straw, they really appear happy. Mrs. Chester forgets her sorrows and her infirmities, in her zeal at her work. Ella learns of her. mother. Luna sews upon the   238       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. tops, after her mamma has begun them, and little lMinny enjoys herself, as with a piece of refuse straw, she " makes believe." They feel they are doing something. Eugene and George want to try, too. Some aprons are tied round them, and the room resounds with merriment, as they take their needles and endeavor to imitate their sisters. While things are in this state in the "upper room" in Albany, a different scene is acted in lMrs. Chester's former splendid mansion. The red flag is hung out, and the auc- tioneer's voice and hammer is heard. JThe house is thronged with the gay and heartless crowd, who gaze at the elegances of this tasteful residence, so soon to be scattered in every direction. There is 'one in that crowd, in a drab ove coat, with a profusion of black hair, and large whiskers, of nible bearing and manly appearance, who bids upon nearly all of the most costly furniture. His large black eyes glisten with moisture, as he watches the sale with anxiety. Ella's beau- tifully carved and gilded harp, and finely toned piano, are among the first of his numerous purchases. The sale closes -one after another of the different articles are carried away, and the liouse is left empty and desolate. *   ,   t I   CHAPTER XVI. SCENE AT MR. VAN VECTON'S. WHLE Mrs. Chester was patiently enduring her humil- iation in Albany, and finding it good to be afflicted, great changes were going on in the circle of her former acquaint- ance in New York.   Mr. Chester's failure was for a brief space the subject of much animadversion from those who had rejoiced to attend her brilliant parties, and called them- selves friends in the days of her prosperity. "What a pity Chester's affairs have turned out so-all that property blown to the four winds!" said Mrs. McGuire, as she called upon Mrs. Van Vecton, a few mornings after the sale. "I am not at all surprised," said Lizzy. " ' Set a beggar on horseback---- you know the rest of the proverb, and so there 's no need of my repeating it." "But he was not a beggar!" said Mrs. McGuire. "My husband said that when Mr. Chester was married, his real estate had trebled what it was worth when his father left it to him; his wife was a woman of property, and so I do n't see how your proverb applies." "But she was a  poor girl, and made topheavy by having money left her," said Mrs. Van Vecton. If she had been used to genteel society, she'd have known better how to spend money." "I'm not quite sure of that," said Mr. Van Vecton. "I   -240      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. think that class of people understand making away with all they can get." "Did n't Mr. Chester gamble?" said Mrs. McGuire, turn- ing to Mr. Van Vecton., "Yes, and tried to make up his loss by speculation." "' But why did n't she have sense enough to see how things were going on? She acted as though she thought he was made of money!" i "H do n't blame her for not understanding him," replied Mr. Van Vecton, "he was such a smooth man, and always showed the sunshiny side to her. But I blame her for her extravagance." I pity her children," said Mrs. M1cGuire; 'poor things, brought up in such tenderness!" "It would have been better, if they had been trained as their mother was, in her early days,' said Lizzy. "I'd give anything if I could find out where she's gone, and see how she carries her head now." I thought you was so intimate with her, perhaps you did know," said Mrs. 5McGuire.  i Intimate! I never spoke to her, till a little while before she married Chester, though she used, to be sure, to take some liberties with me, because we were from the same town; and you know I could not help treating her decently, out of regard to the Chesters. I never knew that she was gone, till her sister sent to me to know where she was; by that I knew she was not with her, at K--. I suppose she is in some obscure place in the city, trying to hide; but I 'll find her up today." When you've ascertained anything, let me know all the particulars," said Mrs. McGuire, as she withdrew. Soon after Mrs. McGuire left, Mrs. Van Vecton's carriage was brought to the door. Two beautiful white horses, full of   SCENE AT MR. VAN VECTON'S.     241 spirit, champed their bits, and seemed impatient to be off. A fine-looking colored man, in a suit of blue, and large shining brass buttons, with a gilt band upon his hat, sat upon the driver's box, and a boy, in the same uniform, got down from behind, opened the door, and let down the steps. Mrs. Van Vecton came out in high spirits, dressed richly in velvet and furs, and her plumes nodded gracefully as she entered the carriage, rejoicing in her abundance, and thanking- not God, who had made such a difference in her circumstances. Mr. Van Vecton, contrary to his usual custom, accompanied her, for he, too, had partaken of woman's curiosity, and doubted not if they called upon Mr. Van Dyke, it would be gratified. About two hours after, they returned, but they came not as they went. The carriage was a perfect wreck. The horses, flaked with foam, and still quivering with excitement, and half-frantic with fear, their broken harness hanging in disorder upon them, and their white reins daubed in mire and blood, were with difficulty led by the two strong men at the head of each.  Mr. Van V., already quite dead, was borne upon a litter, and his wife, still breathing, followed upon another. When Mrs. Van Vecton opened her eyes in consciousness, the physician was standing by her side, holding her pulse. "Am   I much injured, Doctor?" said she, in a tone of alarm.    t "That's what we want to find out. How do you feel?" "I don't know. Well enough, only I can't move. I hope i shan't have to lie here always!" "We don't expect you'll be very active, after such a bruising. It is a great mercy you were not killed outright, and now that you lie here, you have an opportunity to think of God's great goodness to you." 21   242      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. - But where's my husband? Is he much hurt?"  He's down stairs, somewhat bruised, but he don't ap- pear to suffer much." As the doctor left the room, old Mrs. Van Vecton met him at the door, for he would not allow her to enter with her tearful eyes. "What do you think of her?" she inquired. "I think her back is broken." "Then she must die, too!" said the old lady, sighing deeply. "She can't continue long," he replied. "I have n't told -her about her husband, nor what I think about herself; it is hard to tell her, and I thought I'd leave you to do as yom think best." Mr. and Mrs. Bartlett were sent for immediately, and upon them devolved the painful task. The sight of her sister just on the brink of the grave, with no preparation for the issues beyond, was too much for Phemy. She entered the sick-room with her husband, but her warm pressure of Lizzy's hand, and flowing tears, were :her only and expressive language. "( How do you find yourself, sister?" said Mr. Bartlett. "Very helpless. I think when I get well, I shall know how to appreciate the use of my limbs as I never did 'before." "Do you ever have any doubts as to your recovery?" said Mr. Bartlett, in a tone of tenderness. *  : Yes, I have fretted some about it; but the doctor do n't  seem to be alarmed." "Do you think he has told you frankly what he fears?" " I don't know," said Lizzy, looking up in his face fixedly. You make me nervous. Don't begin with your old habit of -alarming me!" "Lizzy," said Mr. Bartlett, kindly, " if we knew that you   SCENE AT MR. VAN VECTON'S.     248 could not live, would you wish us to tell you, or to keep you in ignorance?" "I should wish to be told of it, of course; but you do n't think so, do you?"  l "4 We do." "But the doctor"- "He left us to tell you. He says your injury is such, that you cannot recover, and we tell you, that you may spend the time which is left you, in preparation for this great event." Must I die so soon?" said Lizzy, wringing her hands in agony. "Leave all my comforts, my pleasant home and children, and go - Oh where! I am not prepared to die-- I cannot die!" "Look to Christ, sister," said Phemy; " he can forgive you, and give you admission to a more beautiful world than you will leave." "But I can't! I'm afraid to! I've spent my whole life in pleasing myself, and wasting my precious time. It is too late for me. But Oh, take care of my children; tell mother North to take them into the country with her," said she, as she noticed all had gone out, save Phemy and her husband. "Mother Van Vecton loves them, and will give them every- thing but a religious education; but that's worth more than all beside. Tell mother to be faithful to them, and not let them meet me and reproach me for my unfaithfulness, in another world. O!" said she, " everything that's pleasant around me, reminds me of the contrast which must soon take place ir[ my situation." "We hope not, sister," said Mr. Bartlett. "Look to Christ, and all may yet be well." "Pray for me," said Lizzy, for the first time in her life. All knelt, as Mr. Bartlett solemnly commended the de- parting soul to God. In the midst of his petitions, death   244      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. came, and the lover of pleasure entered into the presence of Him who hath said, , Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy; that they do good; that they be ready to dis- tribute, willing to communicate, laying up in store for themselves, a good foundation against a time to come."   '  ft   CHAPTE'R      XV'II. AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.            / "There Is a jewel which no Indian mine can buy, No chcmic art can counterfeit; It makes men rich in greatest poverty, Makes water wine, turns wooden cups to gold,    - The homely whistle to sweet music's strain. Seldom it comes, to few from Heaven sent, That much in little - all in nought - content-"- Wtlbye. O! MOTHER, it worked first rate," exclaimed a little boy about seven years old, followed 'by a sister of five; rushing into a large square room, whose uncarpeted floor, in its shining cleanliness,'reflected the luxurious wood fire that blazed upon the hearth. A rocking-chair is standing in the' corner, and from the flattened condition of its patch-work covered cushion, we should suppose its occupant has but recently arisen from it. 1No voice responds to the ecstasies of the little ones, save the loud and distinct tickings of the tall clock, which, with its moon half risen, stands in the corner, and regularly tells, not only the passage of the hours,. but the rising and setting of that luminary. Freddy and Martha glance at the book-case, with its slide drawn out, as though some one has been writing, then to the table-under the glass, upon which stands a hat. "Somebody's been here!" exclaims Freddy.   246      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. come home! You needn't have worked so hard tc mako  your sled, for he'd have made it for you." 'I should have worked just as hard, if I had known he was coming home," said the little boy, with pride and energy. "I want him to see it, and praise it." "O! here they are! Here 's mother and James!" "Hullo! Freddy; how d'ye do, Martha?" said a tall young man, of florid complexion, graceful figure, and fine expression of countenance, as he hastened to embrace his little brother and sister. "I'm so glad you've come home, brother," whispered Mar- tha, and she put her fingers through his hair, and kissed him repeatedly; " but I am more glad now than ever ; guess why." "I can't," said James, appearing to be puzzled; "I can't think; come, tell!" "  ! Freddy's made a sled, to draw me to school on, and I've rode there and back again on it."   I "You rode to school on a sled that Freddy madb!" said James; " that's a likely story; you've been dreaming." "No, she has n't," said Freddy. "I 'll show it to you, and you shall see her' ride on it, and then you may dream with  your eyes wide open." "That's right, Freddy; get it, and let's see it." "So this machine carried you to school, and back again," said James, with a comical expression, as he held the rude vehicle in his hand. "What put it into your head, bub, to think you could make one? Did you ever see any body make one?" "No; but all the boys have one, and carry their sisters, and I wanted one to carry mine, and you know father's poor, and could n't afford to buy me one, and so I thought I'd make one, and I did," said Freddy, in a tone of one who had obtained a joyful victory.   AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.       247 "Did n't the boys laugh at your sled?" "No! they praised it. Every one said, ' Hullo, Freddy! who made your sled?' When I told them I made it, they said I was a real smart boy, and they all wanted to try it. Bill Jones has just got a new, handsome one, but he did n't laugh at mine; he looked at it, and said, ' Freddy, you are a genius; if you made that, you 'll make something better one of these days.'" "He said he was quite a mechanic," said Martha. "Yes, and I intend to make more things," continued Freddy, straightening up. "Perhaps I shall make meetin'- houses one of those days, and if I ever do, I 'll build father a nice house. We shan't be poor then." "Father is n't poor now, with such children," said Mrs. Vinton, glancing fondly at the group, and then to another beautiful girl, who was just entering the room. It was the lovely Abbie, whose name was formerly Delia Edwards. The occasion of its change, our readers will remember. Faithful improvement of the advantage of a free school, the assistance of her father, and now andNen a term at a "select school," have fitted Abbie to maintan the station of teacher, with becoming dignity, and to the acceptance of all.., "I am so glad you did not come home last night," said Abbie, as she returned her brother's kiss. "( Why so? ' said James. "Because I could not have been at home without great inconvenience. You know the teacher is expected to visit the parents of her scholars. Mrs. Price's family have been waiting very impatiently for me this long time, and I should have felt sadly to have disappointed them; but I certainly -should, if you had been there." "Did you have a   pleasant visit, sis? Come, sit down here, eud tell us all about it."   248      CITY AND COUNTRY LI  You 'l1 think me vain if I tell ys all the honors that were heaped upon me," said Abbie, smiling. "No danger of that, let us have it, they can't think any better of you than we do."  "It makes me feel of some importance in the world," said Abbie, shaking her pretty curls as she bowed to her brothr's compliment, " to be treated as I was last night, and in fact everywhere I go. - The best the house affords is set before me, and an abundance of it. The children appear delighted at the bodily presence of their teacher, out of school, the parents love and respect me because the children love me and I love them in return. 'Very silly,' the spectator would say, but I think them quite senpible people, I assure you," and Abbie looked up archly.  "You are quite right," said James, obeying his mother's summons to the tea-table. "What's right?" said Mr. Vinton, 'coming in and shaking James heartily by the hand, "I hope all's right." "I suppose it is," replied James, " though some things seem right-wrong to me; but I was telling Abbie that it was a pretty fair rule to consider any one sensible who can fully appreciate ourselves." "Everybody loves sister Abbie," said Freddy, " even Si- mon Gould, and nqbody calls him sensible." A loud burst of merriment from all parties, rewarded Freqdy's wit; and, en- couraged by his success, Martha ventured to say: "Then our old cat is sensible, for she loves Abbie better than she loves anybody in the house." "I know of somebody that comes here, that Abbie does think is sensible," said Freddy. ' You 'll want to get some of your nuts to-night, for brother James," said Abbie with heightened color in her cheeks. The diversion was successful. The store of chestnuts and   AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.       249 other wild nuts, which he had gathered, had been most care- fully hoarded and sparingly used, awaiting the return of his brother. Freddy now declared his repast ended, and hastened to prepare his evening's entertainment, leaving the adult mem- bers of the family to enjoy a more quiet conversation. "Have you forgotten, father, that this is my birth-day," said James. "I was thinking it was to-morrow," said -Mr. Vinton. "So was I," replied Abbie. , No, it is to-day," said Mrs. Vinton; "I was waiting to see if any of you would think of it. James and I had-a long talk before you came in. Come, James, tell your father what you've been thing me, before any of the neighbors come in and interrupt you," she added, as they removed from the table. "1 Mr Smith says," replied James, " that he is in want of a partner, and that I have won his respect and confidence by my faithfulness and attention to my business, and that he will take me. It is a profitable business, and I think I shall soon be able to render you important assistance." "You have always done that, my son," said Mr. Vinton with some emotion; " you 've been a comfort to me. It was a bitter trial to part with you, when you were so young; I feared you would be the victim of those temptations that have been the snare and ruin of so many." "Yes, I've seen plenty of that in the store where I've been. We've had a jolly set of clerks; their fathers had plenty of money, so they werd not obliged to save their wages as I was, and they could afford many pleasures that I could not. I was subject to many mortifications on account of my poverty, but then I was comforted by the reflection that I might be a man though I was poor. I do believe, the conviction that I could only rise by faithfulness, temperance, etc., has had an impor-   250      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. tant influence in preventing me from yieldimy to temptation. Whenever anything devolved upon me to do or say, I always tried to do or say it as well as I could. I meant to conduct so that I could respect myself; for I remembered whlat you have often said, that" then others would respect me;" and I have found it true so far." "Hark!" said Mrs. Vinton to Freddy, as he was running boisterously in, "I thought I heard some one knock." Abbie took a light and went to the door. "There's no one here," said she, holding the candle so that it would enlighten a large space without, " but here is a sletied to the door- latch." The sled was untied and brought to the light. "For Fred- dy," was written upon it with a pencil, but the giver was not to be found. "This is the sled that Bill Jones had, before he had his new one," said Freddy with animation, "now I've got as good a sled as any boy in school but Bill. How kind it was of Bill, to give me one when he had two! And now my old sled!" said he, taking it, " how humble you look beside my good one! I sha'n't need you now, so I'll just knock you to pieces and save you for fire-wood, -it's a waste to have two." Sud- denly a shade of sadness came over his" youthful face, as he commenced his work of destruction. "Mother," said he, "I I kind o'- love this rough sled, - it served me faithfully to-day, when I hadn't any better, and it makes me feel bad here," putting his hand to his heart, " to strike it; it does n't seem right to use old friends so, just be- cause you've got better, does it, mother?" "The wood has no feeling, my son ; and, as one of its proper uses is for fuel, I see no abuse in consigning it to its proper place, when it is needed more there than elsewhere."   AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.       215 "There's another knock! I guess Bill Jones has come back to see how I like my sled," said Freddy. "Ah! good evening, Mr. Simons!'" said Mr. Vinton, rising and welcoming one of the wealthiest farmers in the neighborhood. "I thought I'd step in and have a little chat with you," said he, shaking the snow off his boots. "Glad to see you," replied Mr. Vinton. "How d' ye do, James? - Well, I declare, I 've come in a lucky time,--nuts and apples all waiting for me,-- ha! ha! ha! --Vinton, I believe you are the happiest man about here!" said Mr. Simons, sitting down. "That sounds well," said Mr. Vinton, "for a man who owns so many broad acres, and has so-manfy cool thousands at interest, to say to a poor man who struggles hard to keep his chin above water." "I mean what I say," said the old man; you always have an air of comfort about you, and things look genteel, if they do n't cost much; and besides, you always seem happier than 'most any man among us. You have to work pretty hard for it, 'tis true, but you forget that I have to work hard to take care of mine, and I only get'my board and clothes." "Well, prove your' sincerity,--change with me. You d may earn your living, and get along steady by jerks, and en- joy it, and I'll take your lands and money, and take care of them, provided I may own them." "Ahem -  well," said Mr. Simons, hitching back his chair, "ahem-I do n't know, neighbor Vinton," said he, with some additional efforts to clear out his throat, much to the amuse- ment of Mrs. Vinton and the juvenile portion of the family; "  I do n't - really-- think-- that 7,-- constituted as 1 am, , could really be happy, without thinking I had something laid   -252      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. up against a rainy day. Folks are, differently constituted, you know." "I never knew anybody, who was so constituted, as not to like money," said Mr. Vinton, drily. "Well! I'll tell you what 'tis, neighbor Vinton," said Mr. Simons, slapping his friend's knee with energy; "I 'U tell you what I would gladly do! I'd give half my estate, if my boys had the energy of that one," pointing to James. "r My boys are clever, have n't no bad habits as I know of- they tend to their business regularly, but something another's the matter with all of 'em. They must have a little help from the old man every year. Now, if a man can't get along and support his family when he's young, what 'll he do when he's old? That's what worries me. It's a bad thing for boys to get an idea that their father's rich --it takes all the self-reliance out of 'em." "But they 've got you to lean upon, and that's as good as energy." "Yes, but I sha n't live always, and then, when I've done with it, my estate will be divided among them, and if they have n't economy and business tact enough to keep it, they 'll be worse ofl than a poor man's sons." "You are getting blue to-night, neighbor Simons," said Mr. Vinton. '"If this thing, and that thing, and another thing happens, that I could mention, we shall all be badly off; but my creed is, live by the day,--take the joys and sorrows of the present, and be as careful about borrowing trouble, as of borrowing money." "I think it's my natur," said the old farmer, " to look out for'breakers ahead, more than bit is yours; bukI suppose the reason I am so blue to-night, is because of the bad news I've heard."   AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.       253 "Bad news!" exclaimed both Mr. and Mrs. Vinton, at once. "What? do tell us!" "Well, you know what a splendid property Delia Ed- wards had left to her?" Yes." "And then she married the son of a man as rich as a Jew." "Yes."  "Well, he's dead, and they've gone all to smash!" "Delia Edwards reduced to poverty!" exclaimed Mrs. Vinton, dropping her sewing. ("Is it possible?" "I had the news from my brother, who lives close by 'em, and if you doubt it, here 's a paper that has a short account bf it." "I do n't know as I doubt you," said Mrs. Vinton, seizing the paper eagerly, " and yet I can hardly believe it." "Now there's all those children," said Mr. Simons, as Mrs. Vinton laid down the paper, after perusing the article, "what's going to come of them?"   ;     . "They'll have to take hold, and work as we do," said James. "Work as you do! what do they know about work?" said Mr. Simons, with a mixture of pity and indignation; "they are little delicate things; and they'll have to live on their relations, if they've got any that can support them, or go upon the town! I ha n't had anything take hold on me so, this long time. Says I to my wife, accustom children to take care of themselves, give them regular business habits, and good principles, and it's the best fortin you can give them, after all." "Where's Mr. Chester's sister? she had property," said Mr. Vinton, " and will not see her brother's childr suffer."1 -22 ,z   254      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "O! she married a poor man, and they are travelling in Europe, going to the world's end after pleasure, and they wont have anything to spare for poor relations. These pleasure-hunters are the poorest persons in the world, and the last ones to depend upon for charity. They generally need it in the end themselves. You know the good book says, ' He that loveth wine and oil shall not be rich, " said Mr. Simons. "I've seen the time," said Mrs. Vinton, i; when I envied Delia. I really considered it hard that Providence had not placed me in her circumstances. When she commenced her brilliant career, I was in deep affliction. My husband had lost all his property, and I was obliged to send my oldest son from me. O, that was a bitter time. We could not keep him, and that delicate child, my first-born, my darling, was obliged to be committed to the control of others, and begin to earn his daily bread. O! it cost but little to board me then; I could not eat, there was no room for anything, I was full to my throat, every time I sat down to the table." "But that made a man of James," said Mr. Simons, with energy. "It was blest to James, and we have reason to be thank- ful," said Mrs. Vinton; " but we did not know which way it would turn; those were days of agony to us. We felt if we could only keep him at home, and watch over him, we were willing he should do anything for a livelihood, so many had been ruined for the want of a parent's care and watchfulness. But it was our duty, and we sent him, and I 've come to the conclusion, that the-'path of duty is the path of safety,' whether it lies on the mountain, in the vale, or upon a plain. I would not expose another child, as, we did James, unless Providence ordered it; and I would not withhold one, if He   AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.       255 called for him. God can bless wherever He calls, and it is His blessing only, that can make us happy with, or without a home, money, or friends." "He's come now, I guess," said Freddy to James, as Abbie took a lamp, in answer to a rap at the front door. A heavy step, and the sound of voices in the "best room,' seemed perfectly satisfactory to Freddy, who exchanged glances with James, saying as he nodded his head, " it's just as I thought."' "It's just as you thought, is it? you young rogue," said Mr. Simons, patting Freddy on the head, and seeming per- fectly to understand his meaning. "There's another thing I want to congratulate you upon, Vinton - the prospect of such a son-in-law as French. You are lucky! He's a fortin' in himself. He's worked his way along through col- lege, nobody knows how - has got his profession, and they tell me he's rising every day. He steps like a prince, and some folks say he's proud, because of his gait; but I tell them they do n't know him- he steps lordly, because he con- trols himself and every difficulty that comes in his way, and that gives him a lordly air; but he's as gentle as is becom- ing in a man, and he will make a husband worthy of the lovely Abbie.   CHAPTER     XVIII. MR. AND MRS. CHAMBERLAIN. IN a beautiful and splendidly furnished parlor of one of the most elegant houses in ---  street, sits a corpulent gentleman in a- large stuffed rocking chair, and near him, upon the sofa, a still beautiful woman, apparently about thirty. Though time has made great changes in them, it is easy to recognize Mr. and Mrs. Chamberlain. He has risen from one degree to another, till he occupies as fine a house, and rides in as beautiful a carriage, as any of his acquaint- ance. But there is a cloud upon his brow; he is restless, and now is speaking in tones of agony. "No, I can't do it, Laura; 't is well you 've asked me, for a denial helps me to begin a subject which I have not known how to broach. Do you know, Laura, I'm a ruined man!" "O! no, I hope not," said Laura. "You've had the   + blues a great many times before. When morning comes, you will see things clearer, -they will not look as dark as they do now." "Do n't deceive yourself with any such vain hope. Look upon your house, and enjoy its beauty all you can, for it is the last time. I'm irrecoverably ruined for this place." Laura sat silent for some moments; the sadness of her husband's countenance seemingly reflected in her own. At length, her f ie brightened a little.   MR. AND MRS. CHAMBERLAIN.     257 "I'm glad," said she, " if you must fail, that it did not occur before Delia's misfortune." "Delia!" roared out Chamberlain, in an excited tqne; ' I wish she'd been to thunder before we ever had anything to do with her. I'I tell you, Laura, it is trying to please you, and keep pace with her, that is \he cause of my present misery. I couldn't bear to see your pretty face clouded. You wanted these fine things, and could n't be happy without them, and I could n't be happy if you was not." O! don't blanle- me," said Laura, sobbing. "'I didn't mean to ruin you. I only could n't bear to see Delia so much before me." "Laura, this aping rich people is worse than serving the devil," said Chamberlain, bringing his fist down upon the chair, with a force which made her start. "The devil will sometimes make ,you think you are happy while you are doing his business, but they wont even encourage you with a bow, a nod, or anything gracious, while those who are below us, are all the time troubling us with their unsought friend- ship." "Well, never mind," said Laura; "we will go into some place in the country, and earn our living. I 'll give up my extravagant notions, and behave like a sensible woman. We 'll try that way of being happy; so come, cheer up!" "Laura," said he, in a tone of grief, and a look bordering on frenzy, " can you bear to hear what farther I have to Q say?" ( Yes, I can bear anything better than suspense, and your look of utter misery." ;"Are you sure you can bear it?" he repeated, looking earnestly at her. "Yes, yes, out with it," said she, trembling. "Do n't reproach me, Laura, for I did it for your sake. I "*   258 '     CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. am a criminal. I've committed a forgery upon Blanden & Sons, which I hoped to pay before it ever came to their knowledge ; but it is impossible. It is due to-morrow, and I shall be found out."' Laura heard no more. It was the sight of her husband's agony that kept up her courage, under the announcement of his failure. Now she fainted entirely away. One fainting fit after another, succeeded each brief interval of conscious- ness, till nearly dawn. Mr. Chamberlain, who had resolved upon flight that eve- ning, in order to prevent imprisonment, waited in vain for an opportunity of holding some rational conversation with her. But time flew swiftly, and he left his pale, beautiful wife, in the care of her attendants, to write a farewell, which she could not hear. Morning came, as bright and beautiful as if the sun looked upon no sin and misery. Mrs. Chamberlain's hysterics had been succeeded by a long slumber, and when she awoke, the scenes of the past evening appeared to her as a terrible dream. At least, she hoped it was so, though the indefina- ble foreboding and vague recollection of some positive evil, made her fear to hear an answer to her inquiries. "Where is Mr. Chamberlain, Mar?" said Laura, to her chambermaid. ("I do n't know, ma'am," she replied; ", he went out about twelve, last night, and here is a letter he left for you." Laura's hand trembled as- she read,- MY DEAR WIFE: I must leave the city to-night, but it will not benefit you or me to say for what place. Enclosed, you will find sufficient money for your present wants. You had better return soon to your parents. I will in due time write to you, and will send for you when I have found a home where   MR. AND MRS. CHAMBERLAIN. .     259 we can dwell together safely, provided you do not scorif to own me as a husband.  Remember, it was my love for you that caused it. You did not wish me to rob others to gratify your taste, and I did not mean to do it. You did not think when you murmured, because you had not the luxuries which other gentlemen could afford their wives, what it would lead me to do, and I did not believe, when I took those wrong steps to please you, but that I could repay it before it should be discovered. I freely forgive you, and I hope we shall both "forgive as we hope to be forgiven." The discovery of the fraud was soon made. Laura re- turned in disgrace to her loving and distressed parents. / The gay mansion was stripped of its costly furniture, and those articles which corresponded so well, one with another, in quality, and light, and shade, were dispersed to many and various habitations. The story of the fraud, their extrava- gance, and the audacity of low people, in endeavoring to force themselves into company far above them, were the uni- versal theme of conversation among the circles where Mr. and Mrs. Chamberlain had been known, till; other exciting scenes crowded out the remembrance of them and their folly. Many weary months Laura remained at home in seclu- sion. She would see no one but her parents, and the fact of her residence with them, was kept from their neighbors for some time. Mrs. Chamberlain forgave her husband much more readily than she could forgive herself. She mourned over her own folly and sin, and, with a chastened spirit, was prepared to go to her husband's humble home in the wilderness of the West, where, away from the former scene, of her temptation, she found her happiness, in endeavoring to assist him in retriev- ing his lost fortunes, and thus enabling him to repay those he had defrauded.  *   260      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. The following letter from Laura will more fully explain her situation.                I MY DEAR MotiER:- I have delayed writing to you till we were settled, and I could have something pleasing to write. Perhaps you think it is not possible, after what has occurred, that we should ever find ,happiness again, that our folly should embitter our whole lives, and in justice, dear mother, it should; but I have found that "Even the misery of guilt may attain unto the bliss of pardon." I have been hunmbled even to tears to see how many com- forts spring up in the path of the unfortunate, the humble, and even the sinful, when they have a subdued, submissive spirit. I have learned that true happiness is found in the cheerfqul performance of duty; and so long as there is no per- son so Quilty, and no station so lowly, as to be free from duties, even we may be happy. I have here a plenty of them, and, trusting in God, I try to perform them. Sometimes they look very formidable; if I stop to hesitate, they grow insurmount- able; but the moment I take hold of them, I find to my sur- prise there is a great God helping me, and of course every burden is light when he sustains the whole weight. But I have other joys besides those resulting from the) perform- ance of duty. It is astonishing how my ewes are opened to see comforts and pleasures when I am humble, penitent and submissive. God does not leave us to derive our happiness wholly from spiritual things; he forgets not that he has giv- en us bodies, through which we receive pleasure or pain, and even in this lowly situation'my mouth is filled with thanksgiving on account of my temporal comforts. It is true, I live in a log-cabin, that is located in a dense forest, about six miles from the city of N ; but then there is a little clearing around us, just enough to let in the light of the. glorious sun, which, with the stars and my husband and children, are the only acquaintances that I can see for many miles. But then these trees are noble, majestic, and beauti- ful; and not far from our house is a clear little stream that runs over the smooth stones in the most graceful manner pos- sible, in a succession of cascades. There are trees that bend over it, so as to form a cool, refreshing, and delightful bower. I call this my country-residence. Four days in a week I ride   MR. AND MRS. CHAMLERLAIN.      261 over to the city in the morning and return in the evening,- when my husband coddes for me. We have, thus far, rode home by moonlight, as happy as any of the lovers of which you read. We are all in all to each other. Mr. Chamberlain gets so lonely staying at home all day, that his delight at seeing me, in the evening, is not feigned. But you may say, "Why do you go to the city so often, and leave your husband alone? That looks'like a selfish path of duty!"So it may, at first glance. I go over there to work in a milliner's shop; you recollect I always had a taste for such things, and I am intending to open one in the city, as soon as I become mis- tress of the business. You know Mr. Chamberlain, or rather Mr. Jones as he calls himself here, is afraid of being seen by daylight, lest he should be recognized by some one and ar- rested; but I am not so well known among business-men. I think I can keep one of the most fashionable milliner's shops, and my husband can keep the books and manage the business behind the curtain. There is a great deal to be made in this business; and as I have ruined my busband by my folly and extravagapce, I am going to try to restore him by my indus- try, econoe y, self-denial, and natural tact. Our first object is to repay the forged note; our second, to liquidate all our debts. If we can accomplish this, every sac- rifice and effort will be sweet. I stay at home Monday and Saturday, and, with the assistance of Charles and Herbert, perform the duties that ordinarily occur on those days. At other times, my husband and the children keep house for themselves. I have returned to my old habits of rising early in the morning; and, upon one of the most noble and beauti- ful black horses, I ride alone to the city, over a country un- surpassed for beauty and variety of scenery. I often think, during my pleasant and solitary ride, of Gray's lines: A Full many a gem, of purest ray serene, The dark, unfathomed caves of ocean bear; Full many a flower is bomn to blush unseen, And waste its sweetness on the desert air. And I say to myself, these gems are not hidden, these lovely flowers are not unseen. They fuilfil the angelic mission God designed them to execute. They shine in the path of the lowly, they gladden the hearts of the unfortunate, and whisper mes-   262     CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. sages of encouragement to the guilty, saying, in silent eloquence,  ", The Lord is good unto all, even to the unthankful aind diso- bedient." My ride to and from the city, prevents my close I application to my sedentary labors friom injuring me. When I compare the situation of the gay and fashionable with my humble employment, I am comforted with the thought that she who fashions a bonnet, and she who graces a throne may  alike enjoy the presence of the King of kings, and be equally welcome at the court of Heaven. This is one of my days at home. It is Monday; we have washed, and have tidied up the house, and, compared with its appearance in the morning, it looks neat and inviting. In one comer stands my bed; in another, an old box, which answers for a chest, and is covered with patch to represent a lounge. Similar boxes, of various patterns, are disposed about the room to the best advantage, throwing an air of comfort and civilization about us, and leading the beholder to suppose that in some previous years we had " seen better days." My table is already laid for tea, and at it I am writing, while waiting for the culinary process to be perfected, in the baking of two Indian bannocks,- corn-cakes they call them here. The cream in the spider reveals the fact that we: are intending to sup upon that delicacy which you call "Johnny-cake toast." My husband has just entered with a quantity of wild honey; so you see our repast will not be altogether uninviting. I wish I could do the honors of hospitality to you with as much: ease as I can describe our bill of fare. Give' much love to dear father; tell him not to consider his children lost to virtue and honor, -that we labor with joy, and rejoice in hope. Tell my dear brothers, if they would be happy as well as use- ful and honorable in this world, to remember the tenth com- mandment. Had I done this, I might have saved you all much misery. Your affectionate, penitent daughter, LAURA CHAMBERLAIN.    CHAPTER XIX. A VISIT TO THE LOWLY. MFRS. CHESTER'S efforts to sustain her family by patient industry, and the chastened, subdued spirit which she mani- fested, did not escape the notice of the family with whom she resided. Her meekness and industry were silent letters of commendation, to which the God of the widow and the fatherkss directed the attention of Mrs. West, and thus awakened in her warm heart, a determination to render im- portant aid to the stricken family. ," Husband," said she, as they were sitting in one of their pleasant parlors, and looking at an elegant piano, which had that day been purchased, "I can't keep our new tenant out of my mind. Last night, as I was going to the front attic, I heard her pray for daily bread, and to-day, I saw her go out and get some work, and it went to my heart. Poor creature, she's not used to these things, and while she suffers so silently and so severely, I can't enjoy any of my comforts. E I have been planning and contriving all day and night how I could benefit her, for I feel that we have a precious opportunity of doing good, and where God calls, He always shows us a way to follow." "A dear opportunity for charity," replied the calculating husband; " why wife, it would take more than I'm worth, to put that woman in a situation that would suit her. She's been one of the millionaires, and what we could do for her, v would be only a drop in the bucket." , Well, I should like to put that drop in."   264      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.           "She 's too proud to take charity on a small scale; what a step and manner she has! She looks like a perfect sample of the ' upper ten,' who despise the working classes; now let her earn her bread, and see if she feels any tke worse for it. I do nit want to see any human being suffer, but if I had my way, all that class should have a short tuition of the same sort. It would be a benefit to the community in general, and themselves and children in particular." 4 irs. Chester is willing to work, but as you say, I do n't thinA she would be willing to take anything in charity yet; but ke can't support herself and family, as she's going on now, and I think I have contrived a way to help her, without injuring her feelings of honest independence." "Well, what is it?"       \ "' Let me tell Mrs. Chester, that I have noticed, children can communicate instruction to children better, in proportion to what they know, than older persons, and propose, as a benefit to Angelina, that Ella should give her music lessons, at the usual price." "Wife, come here, and let me look into your eyes, and see if they look as wild as you talk. I always knew you had a kind heart, but I never knew you let your sympathies run away with your judgment before, and that 's more than I can say of any other woman." "That's more than you can say justly of me; but I 'll soon convince you that to-night my sympathy is guided by rea- son." "It's the hardest business you ever took in hand. What do you suppose that girl knows about teaching?"  - "Nothing, and worse than that, I do n't suppose she has improved her advantages as she ought. Girls in the situa- tion in which she has been placed, do not feel the necessity, and seldom are willing to make the requisite application.   A VISIT TO THE LOWLY.       265 But now she's learned their value, she will be likely/to give her whole mind to it, and do well. I wish to tell her, that I should like to have her practise some on our instrument every day, so that she can be better prepared to give lessons to Angelina, and in that way I can give her the use of our instrument, for her benefit, without hurting her feelings. So she will soon be able to hire one, and give- lessons to others. I have faith to believe that we can put her in a way to earn a good living, without any very serious expense." "Well, do you suppose we are going to have Angelina taught by an incompetent teacher? I do n't, if you do." "There is no necessity for that. Angelina can go private- ly to Gonsalvo, and take lessons of him. What Ella can do. for her, will not be any hindrance, for Ella' has always had the best of teachers. Her instructions will amount to about this: she will help and encourage Angelina in her practising, and thus throw a charm over what children usually consider a drudgery. If she gives her instructions contrary to Gon- salvoe, I'll have her omit them." "And so I am to pay double for every music lesson; what a waste!" 4 Husband, did you think that ten dollars that you sub- scribed for --  was a waste?"   -         X "No, it was an offering to the Lord." "Well, so may this be, if you do it from right motives." "I'll give Mrs. Chester fifteen dollars outright, if she'll say she wants it; but I do n't want to pay for a thing, unless I have its value." "Well, if you can save that beautiful girl from being crushed by despair, and rushing into a life of crime, by awakening a reasonable hope that she can sustain herself honorably by her own industry, it will be the most fortunate fifteen dollars you ever spent." 23 **^' ^   266      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "Yes, if it should; but I think you over-estimate its effects It may lift the girl up, and do her more harm than good."' "And it may not. Here is a chance to try, and if you do not succeed in your efforts, do n't consider the money wasted, but reckon it as a ' heave-offering ' to the Lord. The Israel- ites were sever allowed to inquire what good the burnt offer- ings did, or call them a waste. I believe we ought to regard the good of others, and the glory of God, when we make a bargain, as!eally as when we put money into the contribu- tion-box; but it will require faith, sometimes, and I do think business men are too apt to feel, that if they give liberally, ,they may carry the spirit of covetousness into trade, without sin; and in that way they bring a curse upon that property, which God designed as a blessing; forgetting that ' whatso- ever is not of faith, is sin,' in business, as much as in religion. Now, why should you be afraid to risk a little in this instance, when you know that God has pledged Himself for the father- less and the widow, when you will risk hundreds, where you have. no -promise of God, but only an uncertain business probability? 'Nothing venture, nothing have,' is as true with regard to faith in God, as it is in the business-world, and more so." "And so I am to throw away, I beg your pardon, invest, or pay thirty dollars, for one quarter's music tuition, hoping to receive --what in return? I want to understand The precise nature of my 'business transaction, as you'call it." ( I think if you can get as good profit, when you do busi- ness for the Lord, as you do wheri you give in charity, if you please to make that distinction, it ought to be satisfactory. I believe I've heard you say, you thought that was a pretty good speculation." i' Well, I don't know as I ever lost anything by it; so tell the girl shemay give Angelina the music lessons; and, as   A VISIT TO THE LOWLY.,      267  I'm in for a profitable investment, I'll extend it a little. What's that oldest boy doing?" t Nothing, only trying to help his mother a trifle, sewing straw; he has not quite recovered from his sprain." "That wont do, he ought to be made to feel that he can do something manly. I've some writing that he may try to do, and if he does it decently, I'll keep him employed till he gets about, and then I'll get him a place where he can earn his living handsomely."  "O! that's so kind in you," exclaimed Mrs. Wes; "I knew you would think this was a precious opportunity to do good. A- precious opportunity for you to exercise your gift at preaching," said Mxr. West, laughing; "this is what I get for- marrying a minister's daughter." , Call the profits of these efforts your pay, and throw in the sermons," said Mrs. West. The rich tones of the new piano discoursed heavenly mu- sic to Mrs. West, as Ella practised day by day, for it spoke to her of the promises of God to those who deny themselves for the good of others, in strains which were unintelligible to those who knew not the secret. As Mrs. West supposed, Ella exerted herself to the utmost4 and she more than realized the most sanguine hopes of her patrons, and in many other ways, her intercourse was a bene- fit to-Angelina. It is Saturday evening, and Mrs. Chester's family are to receive the avails of the week's labor which has just ended. Ella and Minny are laying the table, their mother is looking over some articles of apparel which may be needed for the morrow, master George has gone to carry home the hats, and Eugene, whose ankle is not well, sits with his foot up in a chair, reading aloud. His confinement, with his   268      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. other afflictions, his reflections, and the opportunity.,which Mr. West has given to him, of rendering important service to the family, have softened and subdued his spirit, and led his mother to hope that this change in him may be permanent. The extra labor, which his lameness throws upon herself and the other children is cheerfully borne, for she feels that he is now cut off from temptation, and his good resolutions have an opportunity to be strengthened before they are subjected to too severe a test. "I hope Van Tromp will like the hats," said Ella, as Eu- gene laid down his book; "I can hardly wait till Georgy  l comes back. Don't you think he's been gone long enough, mother?" ".Yes, almost. He will be back before your supper is ready, I'm  afraid; remember, he will be Every hungry, after his long walk."  "There he is! I hear his step," said Eugene. "Perhaps it's some of the other family," said MHrs. Ches- ter, and she worked more slowly, that she might listen. The step comes nearer, and George opens the door. He has a bundle of straw with him, and his countenance looks bright and animated. "So he let you have some more?" said his mother. "Yes; he liked the hats much, and see, mamma! he paid me, too," said George, as he handed the money to his mother as though it was something very precious. "And here is your money, Eugene,"' continued Geo'qI i "Mr. West gave it to me as I was coming up stairs. He says  i that he will send you some more work Monday."  Eugene passed it to his mother. "You may keep it," replied Mrs. Chester, "you do n't know what it is to be without pocket-money. Do you not re- member when this would not have been sufficient for one week's allowance, anusometimes it seemed hard to you to bo ,   A VISIT TO THE LOWLY.       269 limited to the generous sum we gave you? You did not think this was much, then." "That was because we did not know what it was to earn it," said Eugene. "I do n't think I should ever throw away money so again, if I was evel so rich; I should think how many comforts it would buy some poor family." "So should I!" echoed several voices. "4 Mother," said George, " do you think Mrs. Gove, who used to sew for us, was ever rich, and then had 'as hard a timie as we do now?" "I do n't know, my son." "I wish we had inquired." Why?" "Because we could have helped her so much, you know.' The tears came to Mrs. Chester's eyes, as she was reminded of neglected opportunities of doing good: He says he shall give us more for making up this stock," said George, noticing her emotion,' "and we shall all lean more, so that by-and-by we will help you earn a great deal! and George straightened up as though he felt he was begin- ning to be of some consequence in helping the family, and there was no knowing what great things he might do in the future. "' O! you ought to have heard how Mr. Van Tromp talked to me, and how I managed him!" continued George, evidently chuckling with delight at his cleverness. Mrs. Clester looked up- inquiringly, and Ella, as if she was certain it -was something to his credit, said, " yes, George, tell us." "Mr. Van Tromp asked me," said George, "if that was imy mother who sewed those hats. I told him yes. He looked X at me a good while, and then he said, ' What 's your name?' I told him my name was George Edwards. 'Who was that fine-looking lady with you, when you first came here?' said   270      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. he. ' Mrs. Chester, of New York,' said I. , She seems to be a great friend of yours,' said he. 'Yes' I told him, ' she gives us almost everything we have; I do n't think- we could live ,l without her.'" "Why did n't you tell him your whole name?" said irg.  Chester, reprovingly.             v     jm "I did n't tell him any lie," said George, beginning to de- fend himself; "( I do n't want anybody to know that we have to work for a living. ." Mrs. Chester looked sadly as she replied, "Are we not poor, George?" "Y-e-s," said George, reluctantly. "Do n't all our acquaintances know it?"i "* Yes."           ' "Will they think worse of us, than if we lived upon others,  without making effort for ourselves?"  "I suppose not," said George.             - "You have over-reached yourself, George; for when I went there, the other day, Van Tromp asked my name, and I told him, Chester; now do n't you see he'll think you have told him a lie, and you will lose his confidence?"   '  George hung down his head for a moment, and then, look- ing up with a roguish smile, said, "No, mother, he 'll think our story agrees wonderfully: you, a lady from New York,  applied for straw for my mother, a poor woman, and you gave your name when you took it; that's all fair!" " '. So I think," said Ella, " that 's capital; now nobody will know us, and he's told no lie either." ' I suppose you both forget," said Eugene, who looked the a ' personification of the old proverb: 'set a rogue to catch 'a rogue,' , that no one who looks at you can help knowing that you must be the son of that same Mrs. Chester; I always used to look and see if my stories would hang together.   A VISIT TO THEE LOWLY.      271 You wont do for a rogue, George, so you'd better give it up in season." ,i You should have told him'your whole name," said Mrs.' Chester. "Your mother is the same woman, whether she wVrks, or does not; or rather, I hope she is a better woman than formerly. Are not you, my children, more economical and considerate, less idle and mischievous, than before you were obliged to work?" "Yes." "it And do you think you ought to be any less respected than before?" "No, mother." "Then do n't act as though you were ashamed of yourself, and thus set other people an example, so that they will be ashamed of you. Those whose good opinion is worth having, will think none the worse of you for working when you ought to do it; but the surest way to forfeit their good opinion is to be ashamed of doing right; and especially you will deserve to forfeit their favor, if you resort to deception. The next time you go, tell him the whole truth, respect yourself, and others will respect you." Week after week the family toil on. Every day brings with it its trials, which must be met, and, overcoming them, they find their happiness. Their minds are strengthened and their characters improved. But their slender frames, unaccustomed to labor, are drooping under this great tax upon their strength. Upon Mrs. Chester, the effects of care and over-exertion are more plainly visible than upon any others of the group, for her toil has regularly been continued a large part of the night as well as the day. "The spirit still is willing, but the flesh is weak." She is now reminded by her failing strength, as well as by the approach of spring, that it is time to acquaint   272      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. Helen with her present location, that she may be able to learn from her whether any tenement is vacant at H . If there is no prospect of obtaining one there, she is resolved to go into the country elsewhere, for she feels the necessity of be- ing revived by the fresh air; and, also, of living where she could maintain her family with less expense. lWhen Mrs. ( Chester declined her sister's offer to make her home with her, she forbore to acquaint- her with the extent of her misfor- tunes, because she did not wish to trouble her with sorrows she: could not alleviate; and she withheld the place of her residence, lest her heartless associates should gratify their idle or malignant curiosity by inquiring of Helen, and thus spy out her retreat, and intrude upon her in her humiliation. But little did she think of the anxiety she would thereby cause in the mind of her sister. Helen, supposing Delia was still residing in New York, had written to her, repeatedly, directing her letters to that place, and of course received no answer.- The anxiety and suspense caused in this manner were far more wearing and unendurable, than the certain knowledge of all the calamities which had really happened. Mrs. Chester's numerous cares prevented her from looking at the matter in this light. ' The reception of Delia's letter brought a thrill of joy at the parsonage. The time of the singing of birds has come, the snow has melted away, and the little spires of grass begin to appear. Mrs. Chester is sitting at work (upon her straw, with her little family busy around her. She has exerted herself to enter-  tain the little group with stories, when Eugene does not read to them, - but now she is silent, and languidly bends to her work, white and drooping as a wilted lily. "Ca'n't you tell us another story?" said Luna. "No, mamma is tired/' said Ella,--" see how pale she   A VISIT TO THE LOWLY. .      273 looks! Mamma, let me open the window, do?- The air is so mild it will make you feel better." Mrs. Chester nodded assent. " O, how refreshing!" said she, as she leaned forward to inhale the gentle breeze. ' "t How beautiful the country must look now," said Ella, - , there's Greenbush, see!--it looks as though spring had come in earnest, there." Mrs. Chester and her children gazed across the blue waters of the Hudson, - and amid their exclamations of delight and longings for a residence in the country, she repeated the beautiful stanza, -- O "Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green,- So to the Jews Old Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between." "So is Greenbush to us, and so is K-- , too," said Ella, "for we must cross the Hudson before we can get to either place. O! I hope aunt Helen will write to us soon and tell us there is a house all ready for us!" " And a garden all full of flowers, too!" said Luna, enjoy- ing to the full the pleasures of anticipation. "There are no flowers yet, Luna, except snowdrops, and few of them," said Ella. A heavy step was heard in the passage, and then a loud knock startled the little famil{y,--for since their seclusion. they have had no visitors,-only occasional calls from the mem- bers of the family below. Mrs. Chester hastily glances around the room to see if everything is in order, but there is no need, --for the same order and neatness reigns to which she was accustomed when in her childhood she performed the same work. George timidly opens the door. "Does Mrs. Chester live here?" inquires a tall, dark-com-    I   274     . CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. plexioned man-his face almost hidden behind his large whiskers and heavy moustache. "My name is .Chester," said- Delia, in a reserved manner as she came forward, for she knew not the stranger, and was half-displeased at the intrusion, --while yet inclined to hope he might be the messenger of good. The stranger appeared  j almost choked with emotion. He ltook the offered chair and sat down, gazing at each child separately, and then at their mother. "Am I mistaken?" said he at length. "Were you not Delia Edwards of D  ?" "That was my name, and I once lived in D ,' replied Delia, -" but I have no recollection of ybu." "Perhaps not," said the man; "I have grown old since then, and time has made some alterations in you; but there is something about you that reminds me of the days of our happy childhood and youth, which I never can forget." Delia gazed at him earnestly. ' It cannot be," said she musingly, as she advanced a step or two. "I guess it can," said he, with a knowing twinkle about his eye, which showed that the solemnity of his former feel- ing and manner had nothing in them portending the announce- ment of fresh trials. "Yes it is; out with it, Delia; I know what you half. believe."  These playful words were spoken in his natural tone and manner, and she was in doubt no longer. "O my brother! Timothy!" she exclaimed, "Is this you?" A crowd of overwhelming recollections rushed upon her mind; and the intermediate scenes of her life passed before her in rapid succession. For a time, their only communion was in the warm embrace of brother and sister so long sep-   A VISIT TO THE LOWLY.      275 arated- and now meeting in such circumstances of mingled joy and sorrow. Timothy first recovered his speech. "Come, come," said he smiling, as he brushed away the tears, - "since we've found one another let's stop crying and get acquainted. What will the rest of the company think? - it's time you introduced me to them," continued he, turning to the children. "I quite envy you all these pretty faces, for I hav n't one." The children noticed that, notwithstanding these efforts at mirth, he still contrived secretly to wipe away the unbidden tears--as he kissed them pover and over again. "Where have you been, brother?" inquired Delia, " and how did you find us?" ' Two questions at once, eh! well, that's a pretty good be- ginning, when you wont get one answered. I have come with full power of attorney, from Helen, to punish you for keep- ing her in such a state of suspense this long time,--and there's no time for talk either, - the boat leaves this after- - - noon at five o'clock; I must be off then, and I ve a great deal to do first." "O, brother!" said Delia,-and the tears began to fall thick and fast. The children began to look sad and dispirited, and the whole joyful scene was suddenly changed to one of disappointment and gloom. "I think -I wouldn't stop to gather such a cloud over my head," said Timothy, " for you hav n't much more time than I. The truth is, Helen's found a shanty out there, which she says, may be you'll like as well as yours here, seeing it's near your friends." "O, I  am willing to live in any place, if I can be near her!" "Well then, get ready,--I've come to take you to-day. If I am not mistaken, you've no great attractions here, or   276       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. weighty incumbrances, " said Timothy, looking round. ' Ican put all these things aboard easily, in the time I have allowed." "But, brother, I 've hired the house for -" "Well, no matter,-" send this little fellow," said he, turn- ing to George, "to pay the rent up to the time, no matter when, and then I suppose the landlord wont quarrel with you if you do run away." George, who endeavored, without success, promptly to exe- cute his uncle's commission, was followed to the door of Mrs. Chester's apartment by Mr. West, who came to take his leave of them,- And so you are really going away," said he, grasping her hand warmly; a well, I'm glad and I'm sorry; glad for you, and sorry for myself and family. I do n't know what Angelina'll do!-" "He wont take any pay for the rent, mother," interposed George. 'c That will not do, Mr. West." "I have had my pay a great many times over. The ad. vantage has all been on my side I I've been abundantly prospered in everything I've undertaken since you came here.'  "It must have been on account of your kindness to the poor and needy," said Mrs. Chester, " so you have no cause for gratitude to me, whereas I shall ever be in debt to you. Come in, and speak to my brother." I can't stop now, I'm in great haste- God bless you," -and with glistening eyes, the good man hurried away. The parting with Mr. and Mrs. West, and Angelina, was all that rendered their removal painful. The small quantity of goods were soon packed and the happy family that evening were on their way to 1t--. The moon shone brightly upon -the smooth glassy waters of the Hudson, while the boat, with the steady creaking of the   A VISIT TO THE LOWLY.      2" machinery, ploughed rapidly through them. Gentlemen and ladies promenaded the decks, and exchanged friendly greet- ings, as they occasionally discovered an unexpected acquaint- ance among the crowd of passengers. But Mrs. Chester, who had shrunk from observation since her misfortunes, re- fused the urgent invitation of her brother to go with him upon deck, and enjoy the moonlight scene, for she feared she might meet acquaintances who would awaken painful recol- lections. With her children, she therefore enjoyed a quiet evening in the saloon, and the luxury of retiring at a more seasonable hour than she had allowed herself time to do for many weeks past. The noise and bustle about her did not hinder the slumbers of exhausted nature, and she appeared the next morning, unusually refreshed. "Do   you know that gentleman who is leaning over the railing?" said Timothy, as they were standing upon the deck, awaiting the landing of the boat. "That's Stephen Taylor; I should know him in India,"  replied Delia, drawing her long veil in thick folds over her face, to prevent a mutual recognition. "He has not grown old, at all; I should think he had been stereotyped; but how did you know him?" } "He has been out at South America with us some time." "  O brother, I hope you have not associated with such a wicked man!" "Wicked! he was one of the best men in our company- kind-hearted naturally, and, what is better, a devoted Chris- tian ' "Then there is a great change in him." Stephen now recognized Timothy, and approached him in his usual friendly manner. Delia, seeing that an interview was unavoidable, determined, if possible, to prevent any allu- sion to her husband. It was more than she could bear from 24     278      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. Stephen. Accordingly, to his remark, "It is a long time since we met,"' she replied, cheerily, - "Yes; where have you kept yourself so carefully?" "I have been residing at South America a few years, but I have just now returned from a visit to old Mr. and Mrs. Niles. You recollect them, I presume." "They were acquaintances not easily forgotten," replied Mrs. OCester. "How did you find them?" ( I found them, and left them, as miserable as money could make them. They say the old man has not been out to meeting, or anywhere else, this long time, because he has so much money in his house, that he dares not leave it. He has all his wood placed endwise in the fire-place, without any andirons, so that it need not consume so fast. His wife is sick, and he is obliged to take care of her, and do his own work himself, because his parsimony has so increased, that he cannot get any-help that will endure it. I don't think they have had anything to eat, that has been cooked prop- erly, this long time," "The old lady told me," replied Mrs. Chester, " that they were saving their money, to make them comfortable in old age; that, as they had no children upon whom o lean, it would be presumptuous to give much away in charity; but she seems to be disappointed in the comfort she expected to receive." "Comfort!" replied Stephen; "there 's nothing but misery connected with their property." The bustle of landing closed the conversation, and relieved Mrs. Chester of her old acquaintance. The exchange from the steamboat to the cars was a pleas- ing variety to the children, who enjoyed the ride with the, zest' of those who have long been deprived of such a gratifi- Cation. The last few miles of their journey were performed   A VISIT TO THE LOWLY.       279 in a private carriage, which Timothy had ordered to meet them at the railroad station. "' You must have patience with me, if I make some calls before I get to Helen's," said Timothy, as they entered the village of K--, and stopped before a tasteful English cot- tage, which, Delia remarked, "had been built since her last visit at that place." A hawthorn hedge enclosed the beauti- ful grounds, and a small fountain, in front, was. sending up its watery gems from a marble vase. Several exotic shrubs, bound in straw, stood like muffled sentinels, to guard the more venturesome flowers, which dared appear thus early in the season, and over the gate, which was fancifully con- structed of crooked branches of trees 'stripped of their bark, and interlacing each other with orderly confusion, extended an arch, supporting a multiflora, soon to display its magnifi- cent coronal of flowers. "We 'll sit in the carriage," said Delia, as Timothy com- menced taking out the children. "O! no. Come, get out; I shall be gone longer than you imagine." "Never mind if you are," replied Delia, still retaining her seat, though the children had not waited for a second in- vitation. "I don't wish to see strangers. It is a pretty prospect before me, and I shall not be tired of looking at it." ' But I've a particular friend here, whom I wish you to see," persisted Timothy. "Come; there's no use in hesi- tating. I am not going in ti -you do." Delia reluctantly alighted from the; carriage. Timothy entered without the ceremony of knocking. "You take great liberties here, brother," said Delia. ' Rather more than I intend to, hereafter," said he, wir a knowing look. As the door opened, Mrs. Chester was surprised to see a   280      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. carpet like her own upon the hall, and her own hat-tree! The door was open into the parlors, and there stood Ella's harpi and piano! Her own carpets covered the floors, and pictures, and statuary, and curtains, from her former home, were ranged round the rooms with evident taste. There was no furniture to be seen, that she did not at once recognize. X cWho lives here, and has purchased so much of my furni ture?" said Delia, considerably agitated. "No one, now; but this is to be your home, if you like it. I bought this house of a man who built, but was not able to keep it, after he had fixed all to his mind; and you shall live here, free -of expense, while you want a home, and I have the means to provide one. Now, no thanks; there are none called for. I have n't done yet, and when I have, I dont want any. I am a rich man now, and it is all owing to you. You helped me to get my money, and you shall share it. I have no children, and have much more property than my wife and I need.' "But tell me, brother, how you came by this furniture. I thought it was sold long ago." "And so it was, naughty girl, and if it had not been for your perversity, you might have enjoyed it, and this house, long ago. When I was at South America, I happened to get from some sailors, a New York paper. I read it thor- oughly, I'll assure you. Among the deaths, how was I startled to read Chester's! I had been intending to return in the course of a few mont  but then hastened home as soon as I could arrange my business. On my arrival at New York, I went immediately to your old home, and was just in season. -The red flag was hung out, the people had col- lected, and the sale began a few moments after. I bought this furniture, and I have sought you constantly ever since. :- ^'    A VISIT TO THE LOWLY.      281 Thank me for hunting you up like a needle in the hay-mow, and I will throw in the rest." "But why did you not think to go to the administrator, Mr. Van Dyke? He knew where I was to be found," said Delia. "I thought you was with Helen, till I came here, and found she knew nothing about you; then I returned to New York, to inquire of Mr. Van Dyke, and he had just left for England. Come, go over the house, and see if every thing is to your mind." Delia followed, almost blinded with tears, at the sight of articles which seemed like old acquaintances, and which met her on all sides. "How kind, how thoughtful you were," she exclaimed, as she found the house furnished throughout, from her home in New York. I could not have made a selection more to my mind, if I had been there myself."  * Helen now rushed from her hiding-place, and with tears of joy and sympathy, embraced her sister. "Then it was you whom I saw retreating from the win- dow, when we rode up," said Delia, as soon as she could speak. "I was certain I saw some one before I came in, but the house appeared empty when we entered. I was going to inquire into it, but I had no time." "Yes. Timothy thought I could not keep this secret, and he wanted the pleasure of showing you the house first, so I consented to let him stop h :nd I came over to meet you. Now, you must go home wiNth me, and make a visit. You look very pale, and I shan't allow you to go to house-keeping till you are thoroughly rested."  Yes, we'll all go home with Helen, and have a family visit," said Timothy. c Her schooling in that little heaven of a parsonage, has fitted her to be your guardian angel, and 24*   CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. 282            CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. she's going to pay you for her education, by officiating in that capacity." " I shall need her supervision and advice very much,' said Delia, "and I may well wish I had spent more money for the benefit of others, for now I see it was the only money which was securely invested."   CHAPTER XX. THE REUNION. FEW Thanksgiving dinners were more tempting, than the one which was awaiting their arrival, and smoking upon the long table in the dining-room, at the parsonage. It was pro- vided at Timothy's request, and by his generosity; for, said he, "when the prodigal returns, it is meet that we should kill the fatted calf." That group, as they assembled around the table, was a scene for a painter. Mrs. Chester's pale face, so full of joyful emotion, that she might have been mis- taken for one who was suffering under some new affliction - the calm, tender sympathy, and serious joy, displayed in Helen's glistening eye and matronly face, gave it an expres- sion which would not have been inappropriate, had that been the case--the' clerical dignity and brotherly sympathy of Mr. Morse, whose head, sprinkled with grey hairs here and there, was reverently bent forward, as with tremulous voice he invoked the blessing of a merciful God upon their bounti- ful repast, and rendered thanks for the reunion that He had permitted them to enjoy - the bright, child-like joy, pictured in the face of the gentle Susan, whose rosy cheeks, and full, plump figure, might well be considered the personification of the country belle, by the side of her pale, interesting, and graceful city cousin, Ella, - the joy, without any apparent reminiscences of sadness, which sat upon the countenances of   CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. Eugene, Luna, George, Minny, and Martha, as they waited with evident eagerness the conclusion of the blessing, that they might enjoy the good things before them,-the over- flowing joy of Johnny, who had not entirely finished his roguish sltations to his cousins, before they were sum- moneh th(e table, and who, to prevent the laughter which is more lik ly to come because he knows it must not, is stuffing his mouth with his handkerchief, -and last, but not least, the mixture of devotion, gratitude, mirth, and anxiety, depicted in uncle Timothy's countenance, as he notices Johnny's dilemma, and longs for an opportunity of relieving him from his trouble, lest the little fellow should be unable to control himself, and thus be disgraced and saddened by being sent away from the table. Happily the blessing is concluded without the dreaded catastrophe, and Johnny, only partially relieved, sits biting his tongue, and roguishly cast- ing an eye up occasionally, as he thinks he can bear it, upon the group of cousins. Timothy, certain the little fellow can- not contain himself much longer, is determined to bring his mirth to an honorable issue, and take upon himself the blame. Suddenly a shower of confectionery descends upon the plates of the juvenile party in that direction, and Johnny's laughter is licensed, amidst the general burst of surprise and delight. Helen has been watching Johnny, too, and trem- bling for him, and gratefully appreciates Timothy's ruse, while Mr. Morse, who has seen nothing of Johnny's distress, relaxes from, his usual dignity, and politely joins in the laugh. All restraint being thus removed, the children forget their mirth,din their diligent attention to their good dinner, and the elder portion of the company engage in conversa- tion, without! the fear of interruption, or rudeness. "And now Delia," said Helen, as they adjourned from the dining-room to the parlor, "you had better go and lie   ...-.  -  _ .   THE REU   UNION. 285             -   down, while Timothy tells us how he found you, and all about the journey, and then you can come in when you are rested, and begin a new chapter, giving us a history of your life, since you left New York, up to the time of his arrival." " No, no," said Delia, who like many feeble persons, when the most fatigued, was the most excited, and the least sensi- ble of it; "I have been banished from your society long enough; your bountiful dinner and cup of tea has refreshed me, and I 'm going to sit up and hear Timothy's representa- tions, for I very much fear he will bring "an evil report of the land." "Then you shall rest upon this sofa which you gave me," said Helen. " I will fix the pillows so; there-you will not break your promise, for you will neither lie down, or sit up !" Thank you, I will; I like to see something that does not reproach me for wasting my money." "Then you can look at nearly all the furniture in this room," said Helen. " Now, Timothy, begin." "You 're afraid I'11 bring up an evil report of the land; but when it's all evil, what can a good report of it be, but a faithful account of all the evil," said Timothy, as he pro- ceeded minutely to describe her Albany quarters, and at the close, appealed to Delia, if he was not accurate in his de- scriptions. "Yes," said she, raising her head from the pillow, and her eyes glowing with animation, "you have described every- thing, but the most important item of all, which decides whether it is evil or good; but I '11 excuse you for this omis- sion of what is beyond your power,- it is indescribable, unspeakable." "A compliment to me," said Timothy, gaily; "it seems    2?86     CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. you are pleased to say, I have given a very good likeness, only I have left out all its peculiar, distinguishing fbatures An admirable painter I must be, truly. But wait a moment, I know, now what I left out, and to which you probably re- ferred. It, was the wan and lank visages of yourself and children, lie Pharaoh's seven lean kine. There, I've got it now! and I thank you for the correction. I think you were all of you liing pictures, which should be seen, rather than described." "I have no objection, Timothy, to your characters, or your scenery and back-ground; but what gives beauty toga paint- er's production, and brings it out clearly, is the light which he throws over the whole. A good artist is careful of the position in which his works are placed, and feels that every- thing depends upon it. So a beautiful day, and a dull day, are not distinguished by the scenery or objects upon which you look, so nearly alike every day; but it is the pleasant light of the sun which awakens the expression, What a fine day! - Now, Timothy, you, or any other human being, cannot depict the light of the Sun of Righteousness,' which shone in upon my humble home, ' with healing in his beams.' As the light turns icicles to jewels, so these beams shone upon my bittertrials, and turned them into comforts; aid I could see even beauty, where to the beholder all was forbidding and painful. When I first became acquainted with the extent of my misfortunes, all seemed midnight darkness. I groped around for human support, and found nothing, till I submitted to God. Then I was like the' servant of Elisha, whose eyes the Lord opened, and showed him the 'mountain -filled with chariots and horses of fire," and I prepared to go forward with a cheerful heart. Just as we were starting for Albany, Eugene sprained his ancle." "Oh I how unfortunate,' exclaimed Helen.   THE REUNION.         287 - No," said Delia; "that was one of my greatest comforts. It was but the beginning of good things to me." "And a pretty fair sample of the rest of your comforts," said Timothy, ironically. "Perhaps so, said Delia; " but you will soon see they were great blessings. Eugene, as he afterwards confessed, had determined to run away, rather than go to a home of poverty, where all would be hardship and gloom. I had feared this, but when I saw him thus disabled, I felt he was safe for a little while, and so it proved. When I reached my new home, it was discouraging enough. There was the great square room, with my small parcel of furniture tumbled promiscuously into the middle, the naked bed-rooms open, the. room cold, and destitute of a fire, the children shivering, and crying with mortification and sorrow, and all dependant upon me for comfort and resolution." aYou ' sowed in tears' plentifully then, I imagine," aid Timothy. "Seems to me, I see you lying down upon the floor, on a bed tied up in an old quilt, joining your childien in a good hearty cry." "No, Timothy, that was no time for tears; it was world, or die; it was death to gaze on trouble then. I rose above sorrow, and commenced working in earnest. Through the kindness of Mr. Van Dyke, I had made arrangements to have the rooms cleaned and ready for use, and a man to assist us when we reached them. I had the room cleared at once, helped the man spread down the carpet, then had the stove set up, and a good fire kindled speedily. While the children were warming themselves, the carpet was tacked down, the rest of the furniture brought in, and disposed of, to the best advantage. The children became encouraged, as the furn- ishing proceeded, and were at length quite interested in assist- ing. I praised this one, flattered that one, and forgot myself   288      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. entirely, in trying to make them happy, never dreaming that in so doing, I was most effectually securing my own happi- ness. The children caught the spirit, and the kindness and gratitude with which they seemed to appreciate my efforts, filled me with a delight I never knew when merely the re- cipient of the most costly favors. We fairly worked sorrow off the premises. I would not have believed it was possible to have-,lone so, and never should have attempted it, if it had not been in self'defence. If I allowed myself to look sad for a moment, the children's grief was beyond all bounds. So for their sakes I began to act as though I was happy, until I really became so. I comforted myself for my self- denial and dissimulation, by the thought that I would enjoy the bliss of tears when they were asleep; but I worked so hard, that when night came, I could not keep awake, and sleep came and took away my burden of sorrow. I was really happier than I had ever been in my splendid home in New York." "Now, Delia, that's a tough story," said Timothy. "With your knowledge of the world, and refined feelings, tastes, and habits, could you see your children cut, off from all opportunities of education and of advancement in the world, without great pain?" - ' No, Timothy; but I never felt my children were really in any fairer way of rising in the world in New York than in Albany. In one place they were in the road to ruin from ful- ness of bread; in the other, in the same danger from poverty. I was not happier because I was freer from trials, or more insensible to them, but there was this difference,-- my trials proved blessings in Albany,-- in New York they did not. That pious sinner, Tom Moore, describes it exactly, when he says: * .   THE REUNION.         289 "O, who could bear life's stormy doom, Did not thy wing of love Come brightly wafting thro' the gloom, The peace-branch from above. Then sorrow touched by thee grows bright, With more than mortal ray, As darkness shows us worlds by night, We never saw by day." While my sorrows were none the less trying, I was led to appreciate every little blessing that I did possess; and I was startled to find they were so many. Often, when I with great difficulty, earned some comfort, which I should not per- haps have thought worth noting at home, I have enjoyed it so much, and been so filled with gratitude to God the giver, that I could not help exclaiming, ' What, all this, and heaven too!'   O! one must be poor, fully to enjoy anything. The numberless mercies of the rich, eclipse one another; but every comfort stands out in bold relief upon the dark back- ground of poverty." "But do n't you think, now," said Mr. Morse, " if you had the same amount of religious feeling in exercise in your splen- did home in New York, that you could be happier than you were in Albany? In other fwords, would not the same amount of the light of the ' Sun of Righteousness,' make a rich home happier than it would a poor one?" "If we could have all the blessings of wealth, without any of the troubles, it certainly would; but this was the rock on which I split. I thought if I had religion and wealth, I should ! be out of the reach of trial; but I have found that trials ! cluster around wealth as naturally, inevitably, and as plenti- fully as flies around sweets in a warm summer's day; and that no one can be happy with any amount of wealth, .who cannot be happy amid severe trials. I doubt whether any one who 25   290      CITY AND COUNTRY. LIFE. could see, in the light of eternity, all the cares, responsibilities, and trials which attend great wealth, would, of their own choice, take them upon themselves. People do not seek, riches to increase their labors or cares, but to diminish them; whereas the truth is, while they change their labors, they really increase them, unless they throw all upon others, and suffer themselves to rust out in idleness, pain, and imbecility. Those faculties of body and mind which God made for action, ; not employede,ywill cause an amount of suffering and misery equal to their capability of producing happiness when rightly used. Any person seeking wealth in order to escape from toil and trial: will almost inevitably fall into this snare, and the more religion he has, the more uncomfortable will he feel, till he has broken his gilded and silken chains, and is willing to find his happiness in the way that the poor man finds his, by daily taking up his cross, and following Christ, rejoicing not m trial but in victory,--and God has shown me, by the way in which he has led me, that happiness is shared much more equally than I supposed. In poverty he gives comforts that cannot from their nature, belong to wealth. In wealth he gives comforts that cannot attend poverty, and to a medium State, joys and sorrows that are not peculiar to either; but there -are trials in them all. In seeking happiness, we must not seek to escape them, for they necessarily belong to a state of probation. We could not be fitted for heaven without this discipline,--the heart that is in a right state, will not repine under it, but with the apostle be able to say, "I have learned in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content." "I do n't think Lizzy North would have married William Van:Vecton's money-bag, with that stupid fellow attached to it, if she had known what a curse the money would be to her children"                         I "What about Lizzy's children," said Delia, raising herself up in surprise.  i   THE REUNION.         291 "You knew that Lizzy was dead, did you not?" raid Helen. Yes, I saw a notice of it in a paper I borrowed. I was going to inquire into the particulars ; do inform me, I 'm im- patient to hear." "Lizzy felt great remorse upon her. death-bed," replied Helen, " and was very anxious that her children should be removed to her mother North's, and have a religious educa- tion; but unfortunately she did not say it when any persons were present but Mr. and Mrs. Bartlett. "Rather a strange place to get it, I should think, unless they have altered." ", They have. They are entirely different people, since the death of Julius." "I 'm rejoiced to hear it, and if that is the case, I should think the other grand-parents would be glad to have them go there. They dislike the trouble of children very much, and Mrs. North has always had the care of them during the warm season. I do n't see what prevents," "Old Mr. Van Vecton says, it is all a trick, to get the property into Esq. North's hands. He says there is no. proof that Lizzy ever gave them to Slrs. North." 4' Why don't Esq. North offer to take them, and -bring them up for nothing?" "He has, but Mr. Van Vecton says, and says with truth, he is not able to educate them as they should be; you know Esq. North has lost nearly all his property lately. To crown the whole, he says they are not competent to bring them up." If there was no property, there would be no trouble about their being competent, for Mr. Van Vecton would never take care of them without compensation, if there was any one else 'o do it," said Delia, with warmth, "O! don't get excited about it," said Timothy; "Esq.                     .   292      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. North is a lawyer, and he-'ll manage to get them somehow," you may depend." "I do n't know about that," said Delia, thoughtfully; - Ed- ward Van Vecton is a lawyer too." "Yes, so I've heard," said Helen; "I do n't think Esq.  J North will ever get them." 4 And so then the poor children must be ruined for their money," said Delia, with evident agitation. "That's not certain," replied Helen, calmly. "They are in God's hands, and he is able to make them His children, and fit them for heaven, amid all the irreligious influences of the Van Vectons." "Yes, but God works by means, and there are more means for their destruction, than their salvation there, and this shows how vain it is to depend upon money or friends to take care of our children. God has said, 'Leave thy fatherless chil- dren with me, and let thy widows trust in me.' If the children are poor, God is rich efiough to provide for them, and he often does raise up loving hearts to render them disinterested ser- vices which money would not buy, -- and if they are rich, it is He alone can prevent their property from proving a snare to them. I'll leave mine in the hands of God." "You mean when you do die?" said Timothy. "Yes; and if you can tell me of any other time that they are safe, I'll wait. I have learned by sad experience, that parents are unfit to be trusted with their children alone." "O, ivery well, I've no objection to that,-- I thought you was going to die before your time came." "O, no, 'dying grace for a dying hour;' but look and see how low the sun is getting. It is time I should go over to my house, and make some preparation for living." "Not by any means, Delia," said Helen ; " you are not fit tt                  .   THE REUNION.         298 to go to housekeeping yet; you will be sick, if you attempt it till you are rested." "I shall not get rested 'till I get hme, sister. There I shall feel quiet, and as though my journey was over." "Yes, yes, let her go," replied Timothy. "What rest do your suppose she could get here, with nine children in the house? Home is the place for her, - let her go. I 've got everything ready, and a girl beside, and I 'm going with her to take care of her, so don't be afraid-; it would hurt her more to-disappoint her, than to let her get tired having her own way; and beside," added he, with a roguish twinkle about his eye, "Delia's thought and talked enough of the blessings of poverty, to have quite a relish for a new house, and some of the good things that money will buy." "Well, if it must be so, you may go after tea," said Helen, - ,but remember it is contrary to my advice, and I protest against such an imprudent step." A bright wood-fine was blazing upon the hearth in the back parlor at the cottage, and Mrs. Chester sat beside 1; in silent musing. Luna and Minny had each found their little stuffed rocking-chairs, and were swaying to and fro in prattling ecstasy; Ella was thrumming upon her piano; Eugene was trying the harp,-a-nd George bringing to his mother the large family Bible, with its huge golden clasp, that Bible in which were registered Delia's marriage, her husband's death, and the birth - of her children, but which she had not taken out of the case before, since their misfortunes, because it so painfully reminded them of former grandeur. The ringing of the door-bell startled the little group, and reminded them that the lamps were not yet lighted. "It is aunt Helen," said Mrs. Chester; " no stranger would intrude upon us at this time, so you need not be. disturbed. 25*   294      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. But she herself was no less embarrassed as Timothy erri:a ed,. accompanied by a corpulent gentleman in specs, of medium height, and a pleasant face almost enveloped in whiskers. "Judge - Foster," said Timothy, as he presented the stran- ger to his bewildered sister, his countenance beaming with  B roguish delight as he watched the struggle between politeness and vexation that was going on within. The informal en- trance of Helen, who appeared surprised at the sight of the stranger and was duly presented to him, somewhat relieved the awkwardness of the scene. "Judge Foster is a friend of mine, and is a native of this vicinity,' said Timothy, addressing Delia. "He has been residing at the West several years, and has now returned to visit the haunts of his childhood, and renew his acquaintance with the friends of his youth." "You find great changes, and a scarcity of familiar faces, I presume," said Mrs. Chester, addressing the Judge, - at the same time casting a scrutinizing glance at his person. "Yes, a great many improvements,-- I suppose they ought to be considered,"' replied the Judge, - - "but they do not seem so to me. But I have been agreeably surprised to find so many old associates. There are dear friends, it is true," he continued, with some emotion, " whom I can visit only at the tomb. I have spent most of the afternoon in melancholy musings at the grave-yard, in D." "We have many dear relies there," replied Helen. As soon as you are rested, you must go there, Delia, and see how Timothy has beautified the spot where our parents and aunt Dorothy are laid." "1 lingered long, and with sad- yet pleasing interest, at those graves," said the Judge-the tears starting at the mention of their names. "Were you acquainted with them?" exclaimed Mrs. \     *-        s      -   THE REUNION.         295/ Chester with evident surprise, as she looked more intently into his face. The Judge did not reply at once,--for the tears gushed freely, And no longer able to control his emotion, he exclaimed, "Delia, do you not know your own brother, George Foster Edwards?" "This is a melting season," said Timothy, smiling through his own tears,--as Mr. Morse now opened the door and found Delia weeping in the arms of her brother! and Tim- othy and Helen giving ocular demonstration of their sym- pathy! "Extremes meet," said Mr. Morse, as he seated himself near the fire. "The sight I beheld, as I entered the door, was one befitting a funeral." "And why should it not?" said Delia. "As I sat here, conversing, in dignified reserve, with an honorable Judge from    , he suddenly tapers down to a ghost, from the grave-yard in D  , personifying my dead brother." "And a veritable Judge, nevertheless," said Timothy. If you wish to be received back again into this world, as one of us," said Delia, addressing George, " you must bring substantial credentials, and explain, satisfactorily, why you have maintained such a death-like silence." "I must first acknowledge that I have done wrong," said George; " but my palliatives will be the outline of my his- tory, which you will please hear first, and then I will present suitable evidence of my identity. The last you heard of me, I was prospering. I entered into speculation, was suc- cessful; engaged deeper, and  lost everything. I was so mortified at my  failure, that I determined that my friends should not hear from me  till I had risen to my former position. I  had no money, and was obliged to resort to my profession with untiring energy. My progress was   296      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. slow, but it has been regularly 'onward and upward. I have now accumulated more than I lost, and acquired a standing I never before enjoyed. I am ready to look my acquaintances in the face. I saw your husband's death in the paper, at the time it occurred, but knew nothing more. I wrote to you a letter of sympathy, inquiring how you were left, and requesting you to let me know if there was any way in which I could be of assistance to you. I directed my letter to New York, and that was probably the reason why I received no reply. Last week, I incidentally heard of your misfortunes, and hastened my journey eastward, which I had been intending -to make -in the course of a month or so. And here," he continued, handing his sister a certificate of Bank stock, for many times the amount she had formerly given him, "I hope, is satisfactory evidence that I am not a spiritual delusion. You forgave me when I was ungrateful and abusive, and deserved nothing. Every thing I possess, I owe to your generosity and forgiveness, and your noble spirit shall not feel dependent."/ "Here, I 'll take that, if you feel so badly about it," said Timothy, as he saw the tears in Delia's eyes. "You didn't know, did you," added he, addressing George, " that Delia  thinks money is a very dangerous thing," and he playfully attempted to wrest the certificate from her hands. "iYou have forgotten," said Delia, grasping it firmly, " my creed as equally forbids my rejecting the good as the evil, that is allotted to me. I am as much pleased with this, as any other person would be; but the possession of property seems a much more serious, responsible matter, than it did formerly. I hope God will give me grace to use this to His  f glory." "Do you see the hour?" said Mr. Morse, pointing Helen -   THE REUNION.          297 to an alabaster clock, on the mantel-piece. "Sister has had a fatiguing day, and needs rest." "Certainly, we will go immediately. I was only waiting to hear the conclusion of the matter. The Judge was a long time in coming to the point." "You will not go until we have had worship together," said Delia. Mr. Morse seated himself at the stand, and laid open the large Bible. "Let us sing, too," said George; " and you must play for us, Delia, as you used to do in 'days of Auld Lang Syne."' "My harp has been hung on the willows for a long time, but I'll take it down to-night," said Delia. The gaiety of the group settled down to a quiet, serious joy, as Mr. Morse read that beautiful Psalm, commencing with- "Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy lame; bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits." It seemed a faint type of Heaven beguin below, as Mrs. Chester stood beside the harp, and swept its gentle chords, while every voice joined in singing,- "In trouble and in grief, O God, Thy smile hath cheered my way; And joy hath budded from each thorn That round my footsteps lay. The hours of pain have yielded good, Which prosp'rous days refus'd; As herbs, though scentless when entire, Spread fragrance when they're bruised. The oak strikes deeper, as its boughs By furious blasts are driv'n: So life's vicissitudes the more Have fixed my heart in Heav'n.   298      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE.          i All-gracious Lord! whate'er my lot In other times may be, I'll welcome still, the heaviest grief, That brings me near to thee." As the music ceased the voice of prayer was heard, and the happy group separated for the night, as Mr. Morse closed his petitions for all, with melting fervency.   CHAPTER X#XI. SEPULCHRE IN THE GARDEN. And now she 's come nearer to finish her race, Like a fine setting sun she looks richer in grace --Watts. "I NEVER shall forgive myself for going over to Delia's, last night, or permitting George to go there," said Helen to her husband, the next afternoon, as she returned from her call at Mrs. Chester's. Mr. Morse looked up inquiringly. "Delia's not been dressed to-day,' continued Helen. "I found her in a high fever." "I was afraid it would be so, last night," said Mr. Morse, laying down his pen, and folding his gown closely about him; "but I think you have no occasion to reproach yourself. You tried to persuade her to remain here, and especially re- monstrated against George's visit to her last night. Our going over there I do n't imagine increased the evil. In- deed, I thought it was necessary, if your brother went, to check their excitement, and induce them to retire in season; and that we did accomplish. I don't think either George or Timothy have retired so early for years." "But they have done her a serious injury, I fear," said Helen. "I hope not. Mrs. Chester must have the best of nurs- ing, and under your supervision, I trust she will soon recover. It is natural that there should be a reaction in the system, after so long and painful excitement."   300      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. But Mrs. Chester's system had received too great a shock. Since the announcement of her destitute circumstances, she had been born up by the excitement and pressure of neces- sity, to make almost seperhuman exertions, for which her previous habits had poorly prepared her. The joy attendant upon her return, the excitement of seeing her friends and her old furniture, and the suddenness of her relief, produced a reaction, which threw her into a fever. The prostration which accompanies reaction, was a fit soil for the rapid de- velopment of those diseases which were generated in her prosperity, and ere many weeks had elapsed, her friends were prepared for the announcement of her physician, that there was no hope in her case. "We think you're almost home," said Helen, one bright spring morning, as she entered Delia's chamber, and saw the unmistakable symptoms of approaching dissolution. Delia glanced at her children, then closed her eyes a few moments, as if in prayer. " 'Tis well," said she, at length. "It is hard to leave my children, but God calls, and he makes all his burdens light. I can commit them into His hands, and trust His promises. He who is able to do all things, who is infinite in wisdom and love, has promised his protection, and it is folly in me to think I can do better for them, than he can." "It is a very dark and mysterious Providence," said Helen, weeping, "that you should be taken away, just as you were prepared to live so delightfully among your friends." "Do you call that dark and mysterious, which is as plain as the noonday sun," said Delia, a faint smile overspreading her pallid features, and showing the ruling passion strong, even in death. "That may be perfectly plain and clear to God, which is dark to us," said Helen.   SEPULCHRE IN THE GARDEN.      301 "There is nothing dark about this, even to such a short- sighted mortal as myself," said Delia. "I abused my con- stitution in- the days of prosperity by luxurious habits. I took medicine for the preservation of my health, when stay- ing at home from parties, retiring at suitable hours, govern- ing my appetite, exercising my body and mind in some use- ful employment, and refraining from medicine, would have done it much better. I then sowed the seeds of disease, and was poorly prepared for my labor, much less for exer- tions so much beyond my strength at Albany. There is no mystery about my death,- it is a natural consequence of such a course. The wonder is, that I should have lived so long, - that when I had so enfeebled myself by luxury, God should have enabled me to pass with my children through these bitter trials,--that instead of cutting me off in my splendor and worldliness,--leaving my children destitute orphans, entirely unaccustomed to labor, and under a false sense of honor, ashamed to work, - he subdued my proud spirit, and permitted me to go with- them through the valley of humiliation,'- enlightened it by his smile,--gave me the privilege of teaching them by my example how to bear poverty, of preparing them to meet the vicissitudes of life,- and gave me the comfort of seeing the children improve under the stern discipline. Then he restored me So my friends and former comforts, and brought me to this pleasant place to die, as it were, on a bed of roses." A gentle breeze just then wafted into the open window a stray branch of honeysuckle from the pillars, and the room was filled with the sweet odor of its morning incense, as if nature herself would testify to the truth of her remark. Mrs. Chester evidently noticed the -refreshing, scented bieeze, but the effort of speaking so many sentences, consecutively, had exhausted her, and she laid speechless, propped up with 26   302      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. pillows, her breathing growing shorter and more labored, the large drops of cold sweat standing upon her brow, -the unearthly glare of her glassy black eye, contrasting strongly with her blanched countenance, while she watched with an interest unspeakable, her group of weeping children. "O! mamma," said Ella, sobbing convulsively, "what shall we do without you?" Mrs. Chester held out her cold hand, took Ella's in hers, and then looked upwards for some moments. The faint tick- ings of the watch,--the laborious breathing--and the wail- ings of the children, were all that interrupted that death-like silence. BEach one expected the momentary approach of death. But Delia had not yet finished her work, and a little more space was granted. With rest, came an interval of relief. The breathing became more natural, and she was enabled with comparative ease to address her children. To Ella's question, she now replied, "Put your trust in God. Don't look to this world for happiness. Remember that riches take to themselves wings, and fly away; that friends change and die, and only God remains the same. Make him your portion, and you have everything,- everything for your good. That which he refuses, learn not to desire, for it will be injurious to you. Reject God, and you reject everything worth receiving. Every other support upon which you lean, God will take away, or make it a snare to you." "Eugene, you have seen the world smile and frown; one moment it is bright and joyful,-the next, dark and desolate; will you trust to such a world for your portion?" s"N'o, mamma," said he, weeping bitterly. "I can never trust it again." "God grant you may not," said the dying mother, as she looked long and tenderly at the beautiful boy, just entering upon the most trying period of life. ,   SEPULCHRE IN THE GARDEN.      303 At Mrs. Chester's request, Miny was placed on the bed Lside her. Delia strained her to her breast, then gave a hand to George and Luna. "Poor children!" said she; 'you are too young to re- member the bitter experience that I hope will be blessed to Ella and Eugene. God grant you may not need the sad lessons again! Mamma is going to leave you, and when you look at her after she is gone, you must not think she is dead, but only gone to a better land. Remember she is not afraid to go, any more than she was afraid to leave her home in Albany, and come with uncle Timothy to this beautiful place. The Lord Jesus Christ is coming to take her to a home in Heaven,--a more beautiful one, than our home in New York,--more delightful than any you have ever seen, or ever will see, in this world. When I am gone, you must get the Bible, and read about it in Revelation. Ella will find the place, and she and Eugene will read it with you. Mamma wants you to come there too. Will you not come?" Each child sobbed an affirmative response. Mrs. Chester kissed them each affectionately, and clasping Minny's hand in hers, she audibly prayed:'- "Father of the fatherless, make them indeed thy children. Remove far from them poverty and riches; feed them with food convenient for them, lest they be full and deny thee, and say, Who is the Lord; or lest they be poor and steal, and take the name of my God in vain." For some moments she lay silent and exhausted, her eyes closed,- again she revived. "I shall not live to see Mr. Morse, or Timothy, or George. 1I    Give my love to each of them," said she faintly; "tell them i    I hope to meet them in -- . The word she would have uttered, died upon her lips.   304      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. She had exerted herself to the uttermost, and she lay speech- less, grasping Helen's hand. At this moment, Timothy unexpectedly approached the door. When he left town, but a week previous, it was with a faint hope that his sister would recover; and the first intimation of anything decisively hopeless, was the startling death-scene before him. He stood aghast, as one transfixed, for a moment, -a long moment it then seemed. The curtains were pushed back, the windows wide open to afford the gasping sufferer breath, and that sister, whose life h had hoped to make so happy, was- in the agonies of death. As Timothy approached the bed-side, Delia held out her hand, glanced at the children, and looked upwards. "Yes, I 'll do it all," said Timothy, the tears flowing freely down his cheeks. Mrs. Chester pressed his hand, and looked the love, the thanks, she could not express; And now came that dread moment so long anticipated. That pale- face, already as white as mortals wear, was sud- denly blanched still more by the putting on of immortality,- those glassy eyes fixed with a piercing gaze upon earth a moment, then closed gently and peacefully forever. Now that the grave has closed over their remaining parent, where shall-these orphans go? The reader already antici- pates the announcements that they were removed to the home  i of their uncle Timothy, whose good-natured generosity leaves nothing to fear from him,--but what have they to expect from their aunt? Is she one of those stiff, precise women,f whose sympathies and affections have never been called out4 by the care and enjoyment of children? Has her elegant house a stereotyped precision, and her own manners and   SEPULCHRE IN THE GARDEN.      305 ideas, such severity of decorum as to chill their warm sensi- bilities; in short, is she one of those childless married women, who have imbibed all the unlovely qualities of a precise " old maid?"Is she so far advanced that she has forgotten her own childlike feelings, and expects in these epitomes of men and women to find no faults, or to cure all delinquencies by with- holding affection, till they deserve it? If so, well may the children mourn, though supplied with every other comfort; for 'tis love manifested that will bring forth the graces. Cold reproof, alone, will nip all buds of promise. 'Tis love that satisfies the longings of the heart, and makes correction, even though grievous, an acknowledged blessing. To such a woman, mother we must now call her, the God who heard Delia's dying prayer, did not consign her children. Mrs. Timothy Edwards had been prepared, by previous discipline, for this arduous and delightful task. She was a lovely " old maid," (do n't start, gentle reader, for there are many such,) before she married Mr. Edwards. At the age of eighteen, she removed to, South America with her brother. To his children she became devotedly attached; and, when their mother was removed by death, she supplied the place. No entreaties from Timothy, could induce her to leave an un- fortunate niece, whose sufferings from diseased, distorted spine, needed her unremitted care and watchful attention. When Death had claimed that sufferer, she felt her duties were ful- filled, and, at the unromantic age of thirty-five, married Timo- thy, who had waited, as patiently as could be expected, many years for his bride. The remaining daughter of her brother then residing in New York, was taken dangerously ill about the time Mrs. Chester began so rapidly to decline. Mrs. Edwards was ab- sent with this beloved niece, at the time of Delia's death; and it was not till she had closed her eyes, that she returned 26*   306      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. to K., herself a bereaved mother in feeling, and fitted to take to her heart the stricken orphans. There was great dissimilarity, as is usually the case, be- tween Mr. and Mrs. Edwards. Timothy was generous, im- pulsive, witty. Mrs. Edwards was quiet, calm, uniform, and much preferred enjoying the wit of others, to exhibiting her own; seldom was led into ecstasies, or was betrayed into passion by the extremes of excellencies and defects. Her temperament and conduct, like the mild and cheering rays of a temperate sun, neither too hot nor too cold, diffused cheer- fulness all around. She was one of those pleasing, comforta- ble associates, who exhibit their virtues by attracting and drawing out into exercise whatsoever is lovely in others. Accustomed to govern her own feelings, she was enabled to control and subdue others with an ease unknown to those who have not learnt the important art of self-control. It is super- fluous to add that she was a Christian, made lovely not by nature only, but by that concise, practical rule for all happi- ness, excellence, and glory,-self-denial. As the time drew near for the arrival of the motherless children, at the house of their uncle, Mrs. Edwards stood at the window with expectant eyes. "And so," said she to Timothy, "Delia committed that beautiful group to you?" L No, she did not, she would not trust me," said Timothy; "she left them in the hands of the Lord," and when I saw her fix her awfully-bright and glassy eyes on them, and on  , me, and then look up to heaven, I trembled. I felt the weight of a parent's responsibility descend upon me at once, - that there was an eye in heaven which would watch and observe all unfaithfulness." "Did you think, too," replied his wife, " that there was One there, who would always know and approve if yo9 id what was right?" ago   SEPULCHRE IN THE GARDEN.      307 "That's just like you," said Timothy, impulsively. You are always looking on just the right spot, and that makes you just like it, always right too. You are like the sun - "Stop, Timothy, that's too fulsome; there is but one rep- resented by the sun, and that is Christ the Sun of Righteous- ness." "Well, you are the light of my heart, any how." "Then I'm an instrument of wickedness, leading you to idolatry," she calmly replied. "Well, yon are a very lovely woman, making everybody just like you, and that's the reason I'm such a good and agreeable man. How do you like that?" I like the agreeable man very much." "Here they are," said Timothy, as the carriage entered the yard. Mrs. Edwards did not fly towards them, and embrace them in such a manner as would call forth an outhurst of grief. She was calm. She had been to see them the day before, and wept with them over the loss of their mother, that she might be better prepared to welcome them to their new home. She did not wish them to forget their mother, but she wished their removal to their uncle's house to be cheerful. Her serenity of manner might have led an observer to sup- pose she did not sympathize with the bereaved group, as they entered, overcome with their feelings. But to them, the gen- tle, affectionate pressure of the hand, and the mild eye which glistened with a tear, that she did not suffer to drop, were understood and appreciated. She made no apparent effort to draw them from their sorrows; but they soon found their at- tention diverted by their aunt's care -of them, and anticipation of their wants, leading them to make suitable arrangements for their own comfort and convenience.   308-      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "How kind aunt is," said Ella, as Mrs. Edwards left the room. "Yes,': said Eugene, " when she is in so much trouble her- self. She does not seem to think of her own sorrow, but lis- tens so patiently to us." "Perhaps it would please her as much, if we should listen to\ her," said Ella. "You are right, there, sis; I never thought of that. I 'll inquire about her niece, when she comes in, though I do n't want to talk about anybody but mamma."  * They did so. Mrs. Edwards was pleased, for she had hu- man nature, as the children supposed, but she controlled her emotions so much, as she spoke of the sad event, that the chil- dren felt it was not heartlessness in her, to wish them to exer- cise the same self-control. Their tears blended together. They wept for each other, and were prepared, as time heals all sorrows, to rejoice together. It is not necessary to anticipate- the development of years to know their future history. Ella and Eugene give reason to hope they have exchanged the riches of this world for the pearl of great price. George, Luna, and Minny, are beauti- ful buds of promise, every day improving under Mrs. Ed- wards's judicious care. Judge Edwards, being a bachelor, had no home to offer his nephews and nieces, but they are the daily recipients of his generosity. Mr. and Mrs. Morse still live, blessing others, and blessed in return. If ever at the parsonage there was any distrust,--a dis- tant cloud casting its shadow upon the parent's brow, as they thought of their straitened circumstances and the education of their children,--the prospered brothers have scattered all,   SEPULCHRE IN THE GARDEN.      309 and brought the answer to their prayer, "give us, this day, our daily bread." While their limited means generate in the lovely group the virtues of industry and economy, few children of affluence are really better educated. It is difficult to recognize, in the dutiful, interesting, witty, and brilliant student, the mischievous Johnny of former years, and Susan, Martha, and the "Benjamin" of the flock, give increasing promise of usefulness, as each year adds to their knowledge, and develops grace and beauty. .          \   CHAPTER XXII. MR. AD MRS. BARTLETT.-CONCLUSION. "Soul! then know thy full salvation: Rise o'er sin, and fear, and care; Joy to find, in every station, Something still to do or bear." "I live here much longer, I shall soon understand the Scriptures like a doctor of divinity," said Mrs. Bartlett, as she sat down, one beautiful autumn evening, and at her hus- band's request was giving an account of what had transpired during his short absence to the city. "If you can understand -the Scriptures here, better than anywhere else, Phemy," said her husband smiling, " it is the best place for you. But what do you mean? What have you learned new about the Bible?" "It understand the meaning of this passage: "He that would be chief among you, let him be the servant of all!" I've done nothing since you 've been gone, but to minister to the sick and to beggars! I felt rather lonely after you left, and thought I would enjoy the luxury of doing good. So I took a little basket of the choicest of our peaches, pears, plums, and grapes, and instead of sending John as usual, I carried them myself to old Mrs. Clarence. There she sat, bolstered up in her little hovel, with a clean night-cap and a happy face, reading her Bible. Her grand-daughter had swept the floor clean, and there was not much in the room   MR. AND MRS. BARTLETT.      3" that could be out of place. 'Seems to me I never saw any. body quite so poor. I uncovered my basket. "O, what beautiful fruit!" she exclaimed. "I have the most remarkable trees of any body about here. They bear a plenty, of every variety, and the best kind. I do n't have to plant them, take care of them, or even pick the fruit." "What did she mean?" "That we were her servants, I suppose ; just think of it!" said Pfiemy, laughing heartily as she concluded her sentence. "Well, did you feel worse in carrying a basket of fruit to a disciple of Christ, than you would to have given her a cup of cold water?" "O! no. I was very happy in it. I came home thinking what a beautiful place we had, how much happiness God had placed it in our power to confer upon others, and how blessed was my lot to- be theialmoner of God's bounty. I felt very pious and loving towards everybody, and thought God did not make a very great mistake in giving me so much to enjoy. But my 'good feelings were more evanescent than "the morning cloud and early dew," for they did not last till the dew fell. I was thoroughly and heartily vexed; and my heart, that I thought so good, and calm, and placid, was excited in a manner to shame any Christian, long before night. I have learned that he who would ' be as gods,' giving good gifts to his fellow-men, will find, like Eve, ' a knowledge of evil, as well as good,' to an extent he little dreamed." "That's very true; but now for your illustration," said Mr. Bartlett; 1" what has occurred to enlighten your eyes?" I will tell you. I came home from Mrs. Clarence's feeling tired as well as good. But before I had time to rest, a parcel of dirty, ragged boys rang at the front-door and begged for fruit. John was going to turn them angrily away, because they did not come to the right door; but I heard them and went out I   312      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. to them myself. I told them I was happy to give them some, because they came and asked for it; that a great many wicked boys stole fruit instead of asking for it, but it was the best way, always, when they wanted anything, to go and get leave, and then they would receive as much again with a clear conscience. I went, with them, and picked the fruit myself, and gave them a lecture, good enough to have been printed, upon honesty and other kindred topics, thinking all the while that my instructions would go down, with the fruit, like sugar-coated pills.- I had scarcely seated myself upon the lounge, before the bell rang again, and another troop, larger than the first, came on the same errand. I felt a little vexed, but smothered the feeling, and went out again, and treated them in the same style, though not with quite as good a grace, I fancy." - "Why did n't you have one of the servants ,do it?" "They were all busy; for you know they have as much as they can do, and they manifested more impatience than I allowed myself to feel." "We will have more servants, then; I do n't mean to have you run round in this style!" - "O! do n't talk of more servants," said Phemy; " if we had another, I do n't think I should ever get any leisure at all. But to go on with my story: I had abundance of this sort of visitors, just as John said I should, if I treated them so well. If you will believe me, some of the same boys came twice. I was tired out, helping new recruits. Nearly the last parti- cle of goodness had left me, before those came that I had helped in the morning. Instead of going to them with such good feelings, I only smothered the wicked ones, and told them, as gently as possible, that they had had sufficient for that day, that they had all they wanted to eat, and carried off their pockets full, and that they must not come too often. I could   MR. AND MRS. BARTLETT.      313 have boxed John's ears, as he laughed when I told this; but, of course, I did not. "I went to bed really tired, and expected to have the good sleep of the laboring man. I did sink gently to sleep, in spite of my vexations, till, in the middle of the night, Willie cried and awoke me. I soon pacified him, but thought I heard a noise in the direction of the orchard. I went to the window and looked out, and what should I see, but some of those boys whom I had helped so liberally, bearing away huge baskets full of that fruit you said we would have reserved for our particular friends, and the trees were actually stripped. I tried to rouse the servants in season to stop them, but it was in vain. They were out of sight before I had started any- body. Here were vexations for which I made no calculation when I was counting upon the blessedness of giving,-in- gratitude and robbery! Such returns, added to the labor of doing good, take away all the romance and pleasure, and people are more fortunate than I, if it does not awaken wicked wfeelings that they supposed were entirely subdued. I could not sleep any more that night, and it was not the least of my vexation, to see my good heart carried off in those baskets of nectarines. But so it was; I thought, if I was only a man, I would prosecute them, I would not be so imposed upon. Then I reflected upon it that you never would do it, and I grew fiercer -still." "What, all these bad feelings for a little fruit?" "A little fruit! I felt just as bad as if it had been dol- lars! It was not the value of the fruit, it was the spirit that they showed; and then to think, that after I had labored so hard for them, that they should be so ungrateful; and then that I must bear it all!" "We've fruit enough left," said Mr. Bartlett, calmly; "more than we can eat, any way." r .          27   314      - CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. "Yes, but how vexatious to have those who never did any- thing towards cultivating or taking care of it, and would not do the least thing for you, come and help themselves to the best of it! ' Yes, but it is a small thing," said Mr. Bartlett, in his usual quiet way. "Small! I admit it; but if anybody will help me bear the little provoking things of life, I will take care of the great ones myself. It's just like being tormented to death with a whole swarm of musquitoes." "I suppose these things vex you, because you know no greater troubles; but I have other things to try me, that quite swallow up these little- trials. I have never mentioned them to you, because I thought there was no need of it - that they would only vex you, when it could do no good; but since you say you can bear great troubles, I 'll let you take those burdens, and bear off the smaller ones myself. A man owed wme twenty-five thousand dollars. He failed last week, and I find to-day that I shall be obliged to take up with fifty cents on a dollar." 1 "And so you lose twelve thousand five hundred dollars, outright," said Phemy. "What will you do?" "Just as I always have done," said Mr. Bartlett. "We have as much money left as is good for us, and enough to ruin all our children. I've met with similar losses ever since I acquired my property; not always so large as this, but sometimes larger." "I should think you'd get through before long, at that rate." "I have n't yet; and if I trust in the Lord, he'll carry me through. He gives with one hand, and takes with another, and I have learned to look upon these things, as a kind way God has of dealing with me, to remind me that   MR. AND MRS. BARTLETT.  -    315 what I possess is not my own,-- that he can take, and he can give, - and that the rich should live by faith, as well as the poor. Your trouble about the fruit, is only an illustra- tion on a small scale, of the trials I meet with in monetary affairs. My wealth attracts swindlers, the borrowers that always promise, but can never pay, all the solicitors of be- nevolent! societies, which are as numerous and greedy as the locusts of Egypt,--the poor and needy, and the rascally vagrants who pretend poverty, to impose upon my conscien- tious liberality. I sometimes know not which way to turn. If I would look at these things, I should be miserable, for they are things that can't be helped. They are troubles that are incident to wealth; vexations and cares attend the richV,. and wants and mortifications the poor." "I believe you," said Phemy; -but last night I almost rebelled at the Providence which gave poor old Mrs. Clar- ence so much comfort, with a portion of our fruit, while we, who had all the labor and expense of raising it, should have so much trouble and vexation in the possession, when we were so disposed to do good with it." "Were you willing to change places with her, Phemy?" "O! no, I've no fancy for that," said Phemy, looking around upon her richly fulnished room, and mentally con- trasting it with Mrs. Clarence's abode of poverty. "Your reply, Phemy," said Mr. Bartlett, "contains in '  itself, an acknowledgment of the justice of that Providence at which you rebelled. It shows what you must admit to be a vindication of the ways of God to men, - that his ways are equal, ours are unequal; that poor woman does not have the joys of opulence; she is even dependant upon her fel- low beings for the supply of daily wants. When she is wil- ling to bear this patiently, would you take any of the enjoy-   316      CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. ment, which she possesses in the free-will offerings of those whom God has made richer in earthly possessions?" "No, no, I do n't wish she had any less blessings, but that we could have the same comfort, without the care and trouble that come in their train." "That will never be, I'm confident, while God is a jqst and impartial God. He sends labor and travail upon all men, for this is a state of probation. The healthy poor earn their money by serving the rich, the feeble poor receive their money as a gratuity, and the rich have the care and trouble attendant upon the possession of so much property, and in their turn, helping the poor." "And so the humiliating conclusion of the whole matter is," said Phemy, " that the poor are servants to the rich, and the rich are servants to beggars! That's bringing human, glory down to a pretty small point!" C No, Phemy, it is placing it upon its highest pinnacle," said Mr. Bartlett, putting his arm round her affectionately; "the true dignity and glory of human nature, is in being restored to the lost image of God, who though Lord of all, took upon Himself the form of a servant, for the good of others. And there is nothing inglorious in this service. It is a life of ease only, that is inglorious. Depend upon it, Phemy, it is with human nature, as with water. The alter- native is either agitation or stagnation. Let us not consider these labors and trials as evils, but ratheq as joyful indica-  tions of the presence of the angel, who cometh down at certain seasons, and troubleth the pool, to impart a healing virtue.' Mr. Bartlett's noble mansion is like the "palace called beautiful, for the entertainment of Christian pilgrims;" his   CONCLUSION.         817 wife, a lovely help-meet for him, still in the bloom of life; his children like "olive plants about his table.: Mr,Bartlett is ,eyes to the blind and feet to the lame." It may be said of him, as it was of Job, "The cause I knew not, I searched out." He finds his happiness in looking upon his blessings, and blessing others, instead of looking sorrowfully after those which he has not. His mind is quiet, his body healthy and is not abated; and Mrs. Bartlett has thus far,found no cause to regret the inequality of years. And so you 've written this book to prove that wealth is not a blessing," exclaim some sanguine youth. "But you have labored in vain; vain we do not believe it,neither do you. You are right. The writer does not believe it, It is a glorious thing to be rich, if you are able to bear if t You then have the opportunity of benefiting others,--gratifying the desire of all holy beings. But it has been the design of this story to show, that you cannot do ts without great self- denial. When you desire riches, that you may enjoy a life of ease and pleasure, you know no more what you ask, than the mother of Zebedee's children knew what she asked, when she prayed Christ, that her " two sons might sit, the one on His right hand, and the other at His left in His Kingdom:. Well might He say unto you, as He said unto them, -Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of, and be bap- tized with the baptism that I shall be baptized with?. 27* [   818       CITY AND COUNTRY LIFE. The trials, temptations, and dangers of extreme wealth, are equal to those attendant upon abject poverty, and require an equal amount of active exertion, and rigid self-denial, or ruin is the consequence. He who stems the adverse influ- ences of either station, whether rich or poor, high or low, rises to the dignity of a conqueror, - a conqueror over self, the worst of foes. He is a truly happy,--a truly noble mann; hath attained the dignity of human nature,- hath become God-like. But he "who liveth in pleasure, is dead while" he liveth." Ye who live at ease, who revel in the joys of opulence, listen to words of the gifted Wilcox:-- "Wake, thou that sleepest in enchanted bowers, Lest these lost years should haunt thee in the night, When death is waiting for thy numbered hours, To take their swift, their everlasting flight. Wake I ere the earth-born charm unnerve thee quite, And be thy thoughts to work divine address'd; Do something - do it soon, - with all thy might - An angel's wing would droop if long at rest, And God himself inactive, were no longer blest." f.   "ATELY PUBT1J'ISn BY TAPPAN AND WHTTEMORE, "4 WASHNGTON STREET, BOSTON. THE WHTE SLAVE. THE WHTE SLAVE, or Memoirs of a Fugitive. By Richard Hil- dreth, author of "Despotism in America," "History of the United States," etc. Price, $1, with eight graphic Illustrations. "As its name indicates, it is a tale of slavery, slave-life and slave- institutions, from the hand of a master. That it contains a faithful and not over-colored portrait of the workings of the ' peculiar institu- tion,' we entertain no manner of doubt. We advise all to get it and read it."-Concord Democrat. "This work is a vivid and graphic delineation of life at the South, in all its phases. It details the history of a white slave, the son of a Virginia planter, who, after passing through his experience of bondage, in its mildest as well as its most rigorous forms, and after many ad- ventures and hair-breadth escapes, reaches the shores of England, where he obtains not only his freedom, but also a position of high re- spectability and importance."-Am. Union. "It is the story of a slave; and it is the slave in middle life, edu- cated, refined, wealthy, and free, who tells it. With him, life had been grave and earnest; and such is his narrative. It has the stem and stately movement of the old Greek tragedy. As a picture of slavery, in its moral, social, and political bearing upon the North as' well as the South, it furnishes hints and facts which are overlooked in Uncle Tom's Cabin. The high reputation the author has received in an- other department of literature, will not suffer by his present produc- tion, which deserves and will have a wide circulation."-NationalEra. "The friends of freedom can render no better service to the cause than to circulate this book. It is beautifully printed and illustrated, and costs only a dollar."- Commonwealth. "This book is intensely interesting throughout, and will serve as an excellent companion to 'Uncle Tom's Cabin.' One cannot read without indignation the history of Archy and Cassy,-their loves, their trials, their escapes, and their union at last; the whole being in- terspersed with strange and ofttimes hideous and gloomy pictures of Southern social and slave-trading life. If one desires to see what things slavery naturally begets, let him read the forty-fifth chapter; and if he be not a 'born abolitionist,' he will certainly be made one by sudden conversion."-Essex Freeman. *' The reader of this work will be loath to lay it down till he has finished its perusal. For ourselves, we welcome its appearance, as we   TAPPAN & WHTTEMORE'S PUBLICATIONS. would every judicious and Christian effort in behalf of human free- : dom."-Christian Register. "There is a deep interest in this story, which cannot fail to arrest attention, and absorb the mind, and touch the emotions.-Bangor "? ne can hardly venture upon a book of light reading that cannot be discussed and dismissed in a few hours. But this is not a book to be dismissed in a few hours. It is a fearful picture of slave-life; and, to those who have courage to go through its horrors, it will be -very absorbing."-New Bedford Mercury. "A straight-forward narrative of varied, thrilling, and startling ad- ventures, leads you through every phase of the abominable system of American tyranny, with your indignation fired and your blood boiling with excitement."-True Wesleyan. "We predict for this work a wide popularity, and thousands of readers. It will do its work in its day and generation."-Bangor Mercury. "It is a most powerful dramatic work, presenting the workings of slavery in some of its saddest, truest aspects, and quickening into in- tensity every instinct of justice, humanity, or freedom, in the reader's bosom."--N. Y. Evangelist. "To every reader of' Uncle Tom's Cabin,' who has had all the sym- pathies of his nature stirred within him by its perusal, we give this advice: procure forthwith, if possible, a copy of ' The White Slave,' if you would have those impressions deepened, and your heart fired with new enmity to the accursed slave-system. In point of dramatic interest, graphic delineation, thrilling adventure, and elegance of style, this volume is inferior to nothing which has yet been published on this subject."-Liberator. "It is written with great vigor, combining a Defoe-like gravity of statement, with a vein of pungent satire, from which several living dignitaries in church and state are made to smart. As an expressive X illustration of the influence of slavery, it compares favorably with the most popular works on the subject, and is bound to receive a hearty welcome from the friends of freedom."-N. Y. Tribune. "It is an honest book! Here and there is noted a passage of thril- ling interest -it should seem that anything deeply affecting human freedom must be thrilling - while in one way and another, the miser- able sophistries of the apologist are, for the thousandth time, again exposed. Indeed, no argument for slavery is remembered, that is not herein faithfully met."-Norwich Tribune. ' This volume has characteristics which must ensure it a wide cir- culation. The story, given in the form of an autobiography, is power- fully and skilfully told, and abounds with such well-portrayed charac- ters, and such variety of inciden-t, as cannot fail to enchain the reader's attention."--Mass. Spy. ' Those who have read ' Uncle Tom's Cabin' will understand us when we tell them that this work does not, so far as we can judge, fall an iota behind that, in its. adaptation to interest and profit the reader."--- Vt. Christian Messenger.   TAPPAN & WHTTEMORE'S PUBLICATIONS. REV. JOTHAM SEWALI. MEMOIR OF REV. JOTHAM SEWALL. By his son, Rev. Jotham Sewall - "Most of our New England States have had their early pioneers it religion,- men whose labors, when society was in a forming state contributed greatly towards laying aright the foundations of many generations. Connecticut had her Mills, Hallock, and kindred spirits Massachusetts had her Edwards; Vermont her Bushnell; New Hamp. shire, her Wheelock; and Maine, her Sewall. The subject of the above memoir had not that learning and meta. physical acumen possessed by some of those named above; but, for sound practical judgment, energy of purpose, and devotion to the work of his Master, he was not behind the chief of them. His early advantages for education were extremely limited, yet no man has been more popular as a preacher for half a century than he. The most highly educated and refined were ever ready to listen to 'father Sewall, while with the common mind his popularity was unbounded. With e commanding person, a countenance beaming with benevolence, e voice of most wonderful power, compass, and sweetness, with sound tand evangelical views of religion, and a piety of the type of Edwards Brainerd, and Payson, and a perseverance which never tired, he went forth as 'the voice of one crying in the wilderness,' preaching for  years and more, with only twenty-three exceptions, at least once every Sabbath, and on an average four and a half times each week, in four- teen different States, and in over four hundred different places; and his labors were not in vain. Many were the feeble churches planted: or strengthened and built up through his instrumentality, and large the number which were turned to righteousness. Well may the churches hold such in remembrance, giving thanks for the grace bestowed upon them, and praying the Lord of the harvest to send forth many such into his harvest."5 YOUNG WOMAN'S BOOK OF HEALTtH By Dr. Wm. A. Alcott. '"It contains thrty-four chapters, and three hundred and eleven pages and is well printed on good and fine paper. The whole makes a hand' some book. and ought to grace the library of every young lady in our country. Dr. Alcott is well known as a scientific and popular writer and well has he succeeded in this work, which he has now sent out for the benefit of young women. Let it be read. Let it be heeded Every chapter contains valuable physiological instruction, and many hints are given, worthy to be noticed. Let every mother see that her daughter is favored with the YOUNG WOMAN'S BOOK OF HTTFATH.' HNTS TO YOUNG PEOPLE On the True Relation of the Sexes. By JOHN WARE, M. D., Boston This little book should be read by every youth in the United States      It was written at the special request of a Committee of Gentlemen   TAPPAN & WHTTEMORE'S PUBLICATIONS. appointed for the purpose, which should be unexceptionable on the score of correct taste, adapted to a wide circulation, and which should faithfully caution the young against the practice of vice by a just ex- position of its nature, its danger, and its effects. It contains sugges- tions of the utmost importance to the young, and on a subject which false delicacy has heretofore prevented many from treating/in a proper manner. It should be read by every young person, and by parents too.  MEMOIR OP REV. OLIVER      A. TAYOR, Late of Manchester, Mass. (with an excellent Portrait.) By Rev. T. A. Taylor, author of "The Solace," "Zion," and "Zion's Pathway." "We have here the record of the earnest and diligent life of a min- ister who was called away at the noon-day of his usefulness, who was known during his life in a somewhat extended circle, but who will hereafter be yet more widely known, as well as more highly appre- ciated, by means of this very fitting memoir, which combines at once the faithfulness of the biographer with the warm glow of fraternal af- fection."-Puritan Recorder. "A brother's affection has reared this monument to the memory of one whose death was a grievous loss to the church of Christ. Mr. Taylor's life was one of uncommon industry and literary attainment, and in virtue of inspiriting others of humble tfinancial resources to large acquisitions of knowledge, as well as for its direct lessons of value, this record of his career deserves to be read by ministers and young men who are in training for the sacred office."--Boston Con- gregationalist,.  -- CRESTS FROM 0THE OCEAN WORLD, Or, Experiences in a Voyage to Europe, principally in France, Bel- gium, and England, in 1847 & 1848. By ALONZO TIPrr. it The author is evidently a man of large intelligence and of careful observation. He has brought out much that will prove new and inter- esting; and though travelling over beaten ground, he has collected matter and sketched it in a manner that cannot fail to attract readers." - Boston Christian Wcatchman and Reflector, ; "One of the handsomest volumes of Travels ever presented to the public; and yet, notwithstanding its bulk and finish, is put at the very reasonable price of $1,25. It is written in an easy, unpretending style, and embodies a great deal of entertaining reading and useful informa- tion." - Boston Liberator. t"A well written volume of experiences in Europe. The book is written in a spirited and pleasant manner." - Boston Daily Advertiser. "We have read this book with much pleasure, and many portions of it, with deep interest. The author describes, in a pleasing and graphic manner, the scenes that came under his observation, and has noted mrach of interest which has been nassed over byv his nrodoPeqr,r4.   TAPPAN & WHTTE;MORE'S PUBLICATIONS. He has given more of every-day life in the places he visited, than any 'traveller' with whom we are acquainted. He was in Paris at the commencement of the Revolution, and was a personal witness of the thrilling events of that memorable epoch, and was so fortunate as to be present in the Chamber of Deputies on the memorable 22d of February, and has given a glowing account of the exciting scene. His remarks upon the School-systems of the various places he visited, will be found very valuable to teachers, and all others who feel an interest in the subject of education. We are sure that the book will be read with in- terest, and, we hope, not without profit."--Andover Advertiser. PROP. RUSSELL'S SERIES OF READING-BOOKS, That has been introduced into more than 500 Towns. Copy of a Letterfrom Rufus Putnam, Esq., Principal of the Bowditch School, Salem, Mass. MR. CHARLES TAPPAN, -Dear Sir: I have just received your favor, and in reply to your inquiry respecting Runssell's Series of Reading Books, I am happy to say, that from a careful perusal of the series, I consider it most happily adapted to the condition and wants of our Public Schools. The largest work of the series, viz. the American Common-School Reader, has been the text-book in reading, in my school,. the last three years; and I am free to say, that I know of no reading- book that could possibly supply its place. I would, on no account, ex- change it for any other that has yet come to my notice. Yours, very respectfully,  R. PUTNAM. Copy of a Letter from Rev. Charles Hydc, Chairman of School Committee, Smithfield, . I L MR. CHARLES TAPPAN,--Sir: Yours is before me. In reply, would observe, that since we adopted Russell's Reading Books in our Schools, I have heard no complaints: but, on the contrary, all that I have heard has been in favor of the books; and, as a committee, we have often congratulated ourselves, that our decision turned in favor of these books, in preference to all others. No consideration would induce us to change the books, for any nowhefore the public. The great variety ofmat- ter, gathered from the best writers in the English language; the excel- lent judgment evinced in the arrangement, so that- the pupil shall be carried, gradually and easily, from the first lessons to the highest and most difficult kind of reading, together with the hints to teachers, prin- ciples of elocution, etc., give them, in our view, a decided superiority to any series of Readers yet published.   CHARLES HYDE. Copy of a Letter from Rev. Horace James, Wrentham. MR. TAPPAN,- Sir: I take pleasure in saying, respecting the series of Reading Books published by yourself, that it is, in my opinion, incompa- rably the best in existence at present. What may be done in this depart- ment, in time to come, can hardly be predicted. But for present use, there is no series of books like Russell's. Their morality is pure and high-toned; their literary taste, severe throughout. Their oratorical character is altogether peculiar to them as a series, and very valuable.   TAPPAN & WHTTEMORE'S PUBLICATIONS. I have found nothing in any of them to offend the most scrupulous or fastidious, on any subject of morals or scholarship.. Having adopted them in this town, we find them to fulfil our high expectations. We have experienced no difficulty in making the children understand them. In fact, the subject of reading has received a new impulse in consequence of them, in the minds of both teachers and scholars. These books are adapted to interest and instruct the teacher ; and what- / ever does this, cannot fail to benefit the school. HORACE JA:MES. Extract of a Letter froml-ev. Horatio Bardwell, Oxford, Mass. CHARLES TAPPAN, ESQ.,- Dear Sir: We have had an experience of Russell's Series of Reading Books, of nearly two years, and see no occasion of regretting their introduction. They are, in my opinion, decidedly superior to any other system I have examined. I have no time to enter into a detailed specification of the superior excellences of Russell's Series. I can only say, that the experiment had in our schools, is, to my own mind, peculiarly gratifying, in its influence both on the teachers and their pupils. Yours, with respect, H. BARDWELL. Extract of a Letterfrom Rev. Joseph Allen, Northborough, mass. MY DEAR SIR:-- In reply to yours, I can assure you that Russell's Series of Reading Books, which we introduced a year ago, have given i great satisfaction ; and I am convinced, from personal observation, in repeated visits that I have made to our schools, have been found valu- able aids in teaching our children to read in a natural and intelligible manner. The reading lessons are of a very high order of excellence, both for the interest they awaken, and the beautiful spirit that pervades them. I will only add, that I consider the introduction of this Series as a great blessing to our Schools. Yours, truly, JOSEPH ALLEN. From the Acting Visitor of the Board of School Visitors of Hartford, and one of the Book Comnmittee. CHARLES TAPPAN, ESQ., - Dear- Sir: I have no hesitation in say- ing, that I consider Russell's Series of Reading Books the best which I have ever examined. The selections are interesting, pure, and ele- vated, and admirably adapted, in variety and arrangement, to rhe- torical and elocutionary practice in the school. The author's re- marks upon vocal qualities, intonation, and general management, the suggestions to teachers, and the introductory drilling exercises, illustrative as they are of the various styles of reading, are right to the purpose,--clear, practical,- invaluable. In short, it is the vocal science of Rush reduced to practice, and adapted to the school-room. "Our Board of Visitors, after a careful and protracted exami- nation, have given them the preference over all other rival Series. and have prescribed their use in all the Public Schools of this City and Society.  Very respectfully, yours, N. H. MORGAN.   
         
       
   
