
    ----CITATION----
        Linkinwater, Tim. Mardi Gras .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8171
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Mardi Gras 
            
               C,

BY TIM LINKINWA TE R.

COPYRIGHT SECURED.
NEW ORLEANS:
P- F. GOGAR~TY, PUBLISHER, 151 CAMP STREET.
18v"/1.

ei SaltZo in4' 2llun1 YZimeg.


PATENT
ARTIF1~IAL LII~ AND ARIYL8
WiARR&amp;!~1TED( FOA~ F1~V~ YI~AR~

578~Magazine street,-578 A. McDermott, Manufacturer,
NEAR ST. ANDREW STREET,
NEW    OIRLEANS.             59 CAMP STREET, Now OrleanI3, La.
)JRTJGGIST AJSFD                  OTI~3EO~A~R~
CORNER MAIN AND OHARTRE~ ~TRIEETh, NEW ORLEANS,

Sole Proprietor, Manufacture] and Agent for the following justly celebrated
Remedies
The Wai'ata Guaco Bitters is a good tAnic and stomachic, composed entirely of the
vegetable substance of Guaco.
Being very agreeable to the taste, it can be taken by the most delicate peison~-
It rids the system ot all impurities and proniotes health and ~ igoi.
This celebrated Bitters is a preservative against Cholera, a euro for Dyspepsia,
Chronic and Nervous Debility, Diarrhea, Weakness of the Loins, and all Diseases of
the Liver, the Stemnneb or the Bowels.
This Bitters can be takeii either with a little sugar and water in Anisette or any
other spirits, or even pure. A small glass of it, taken before a nical, sharpens the
appetite and facilitates digestion.
For Ulcers, Sores, Paihs in the Bones, Pimples and Mercurial Diseases, and all-
affections caused by the h~purities of thin blood.
FINLAY'~ RHEUMATIC MIXTURE
Will cure Serofubi in all its various forms, Stubborn Ulcers, Cutaneous Eruptions,
Swelling ~if the Glands, EnlargementS and Paiuls in tim Bouies and ,Toints, etc., etc..
and diseases arishig from an injudicious use of mercury.

ALSO,
A New Preserver for all I~inds of Fever.
*r~i                                 ~      ISIDOR ASCRAFFENBURO,
cii APJ!~                    0
IYEALRIi IN
~ BOOTS, SHOES ANB BROCTA~S,
No. E~37 Magazine Street,
(YEAh JACKSON,)
TIEW ORLEANS, LA.
-4 ~ 4-
Corner St. Andrew &amp; lYlagazine sts. Finest an4 cheapest stock of Slices in the City

Ii. 5. CAYLAT.               J. FLYNN.
CAYLAT .&amp; FLYNN,
CASH DEALERS IN
A~I~ D~$TL~

BY TIM. LINXINWATER.

CHAPTER I.
"We will thank Heaven
And then we'll see maskery."
In Catholic countries the Carnival time, es-
pecially the week immediately preceding the
advent of Lent, is devoted to Social enjoyments
-balls, parties, theatres and the like enter-
tainments are indulged in by almost the entire
population. it comes in the early spring of the
year, and the pleasures of the winter season
are now brought to a brilliant termination,
preparatory to the commencement of that sea-
son of austerity, observed by the "children of
the Churcl~ ~ as a reminder of their own weak-
ness, and to bring them to a proper feeling of
humility in contemplating the life and suffer-
ings of H~mn~ who assumed our weak humanity,
who fasted and was sorely tempted, that we,
through his example, might gather strength to
pass through the troubles and cares of this
world with a fortitude and resignation worthy
of His name.
In no oth~r part 9f our own country, are the
ceremonies of the Carnival so well observed
and heartily enjoyed as in New Orleans, where
a large majority of the people are of the Ca-
tholic faith and where there is also yet a very
strong element of the French or "Credo" in
the population, who have given to the place
many of the customs of the mother country,
customs which their fellow citizens of other
nationalities are not slow in imitating, or im-
proving upon, and fully enjoy.
Mardi Gras, a French term sign Fat
Tuesday, is the last day of the season of pleas-
ure, and is always marked by the wildest
scenes of gaiety, and is given over to amuse-

ment by almost the entire population of the
Crescent City. In the Church the day is known
as Shrove Tuesday, being the day on which,
in olden time, the faithful were wont to wake
their shrift, preparatory to "receiving the
ashes" on the following day, Ash Wednesday,
thus entering the season of fasting and prayer
with propc~ humility and devotion.
In a quie~ cottage, in what was then the
"far up to n" district of New Orleans, many
years ago, ~lr. George Macourty resided. A
neat open fence enclosed the front of the
grounds, though which the passer-by was
tempted to pause and look at the graveled
walks boarded with beds of violets, with a col-
lection of choice roses, the beautiful camelia,
and fragrant magnolia. A few feet retired
from the street, with a small grass plot inter-
vening, was the house, with a wide gallery in
front ~nd along the side. There was not only
an air of quiet comfort about the place, but
a degree of beauty and elegance that gave evi-
dence that the owner was on the road to op-
pulence and wealth.
George Macourty was a commission ruer-
chant, whose principal correspondents were
English, from whom he received large consign-
ments of ale, porter, whiskey and other ar-
ticles of foreign make in that line of trade. He
had now been established for himself about
five years, his predecessor having retired from
business just before the crash of '37.
Mr. Macourty was a young man, of medium
height, with light hair, and an open, good na-
tured countenance. A man of good education,
business talents of a high order, and a private
character of honor and integrity, he was al-,

MARDI GRAS;
A. TALE OF AJ~TTE BELLT~.T2~ TIM2E~S.


4                                JIJA1?I)J
ready considered one of the most prominent
citizens of the place. H~s wife, see Cecelia
Mary Christie, a native of the north of Ireland,
was a lady of superior education, brilliant ac-
complishments, and refined tastes. She was
taif and dignified in appearance, with large,
bright, black eyes, an abundance of glossy
hair, black as the raven's wing, and a face that
was full of intelligence and radiant with rare
beauty.
Th~y were devotedly attached to each other,
and were loved and respected by a large circle
dif friends. During the morning meal Mr. Ma-
courty was persuading his wife to attend the
Mardi Gras ball, to which she half consented.
After breakfast she accompanied her hus-
band as usual to the front gallery, to say good
bye to him when he was leaving for the day's
business. As they stood there he said;
"Well, Cecelia, 1 think you had better go.
It will be a splendid ball, McDonald and his
wife, MacVain, even old Mr. Cummings will
be there, and I know you will enjoy it."
"But the baby, George? I think you forget
her."
"No indeed, I do not," he replied smiling,
"but stirely Aunt Lott4r ca~.i look after her."
"Just as you like, my dear," his wife re-
plied, "I know Lotty ~Yill take good care of
her."
The patter of little feet wa~ heard behind
them, and a bright little child of two years
ran from the side gallery and with a cry of joy
caught her father's hand.
"Papa go? Papa store? Ceely go I" said
the child.
"Kiss papa, good bye," he said, bending
over her, and putting back the long, hiringg
curls that half hid her bright, animated face,
while the child, with a merry laugh, turned
her rosy lips to him.
"Kiss mamma-kiss Ceely," said the child,
and he playfully obeyed.
"You will go to-night, Cecelia ?"
"Yes, dear."
"I will not come home until six," he said
"and then I will not go back in the evening
but we will get ready for the ball."
As he turned to go, a gentleman passing by
with a polite bow and friendly smile, said
"Good~morning." lie was a tall man, witl
broad shoulders, a full, well developed chest
and limbs in such J)erfect proportion as mad~
him an observed and admired figure. his hair

(IJL4S;          __________

closely trimmed, was of so (lark a red that in
these days of polite description it would be
called auburn. his face was full, with high
cheek bones, while a smile that lingered
around his closed mouth was a mixture of
good nature and sarcasm, leaving the beholder
in doubt whether to encourage or avoid the
acquaintance. Such was Percy MacVain, a
man of wealth and education, a native of ire-
hind, who since his business l,,id ~allcd him to
New Orle~n~ had been one of the leaders in
social as wefi as commercial affairs.
"Why, Mac, what are you doing up here I"
~~id Macourty, "conic in, conic in, I'm glad to~
see you."
"Thank you, George," said the other, as he
walked up to the gallery. "how are yell,
Mrs. Macourty? and how's my sweet-heart ~"
he said, stooping to kiss the baby. "how do
you do, darling?"
"Ceely's well," the child replied.
"1 was just looking around this morning&amp;
0~
said MacVain, when the other had answered
his salutations. "I think it would be a good
idea to buy some property in this neigl~bor-
hood-I mean it would be a good investment."
"Not only that," replied Macourty, "but it
will be a good place for a future residence."
"Au old bachelor," said MacVain, the smile
deepening on his face, "has no nie for any
such provision."
"You are claiming to be an old bachelor too
soon," Mrs. Macourty said good naturedly, "in
the old eo!mutry a man of thirty like you, is
only a right smart lad."
"Well, if I am not an ohP bachelor now, I
soon will be," he replied, "especially in this
country. But I must be getting down town,
although as this is Mardi Gras day, I suppose
there will be little business doing. Do you. go
to the ball to-night I"
"I think we will go," replied Macourty, as
he repeated his good byes to his wife and baby,
and prepared to accompany his friend to the
business part of the city.
During the day there were a large number of
people walking the street in mask, but the
greater portion of them mere young men or
boys. These generally carried bags of flour,
from which 'they sprinkled the passers by,
without much respect for persons.
In the afternoon Mrs. Macourty took a seat
~ on the front gallery, watching the few mask.
ers, who strayed away from the principal part

I

A TALE OF ANIlE DELL UM [hALES.                            5
of the city~and passed her residence. Her little "Pehaw! none of your low superstitions,"
child played on the gravel walks near her, cried the man, "take the boat to -night, go at
sometimes running to her with little shells to once to New York and locate near the city.
claim her admiration, and again shouting in You know the country well and there can be
glee at the characters in costume that went no danger~"
along. Anindian chief, in war paint, with "I will obey your instructions, "was the curt
an imniense plume of eagle feather~, passed reply.
along, but his war whoop was not as good as "It is well," he replied. "You are not known
his disguise, and failed to Create terror in the in this part of the country and can never be
hearts of the hearers. Two or three cavaliers, suspected. Change the child's dre~s, give me
booted and spurred, with gay colored mantles the one she has on, and I will cause it to be
and plumed hats, came next. With these the placed somewhere, that will mislead the;n."
baby was greatly pleased, calling to her The child cricd and resisted,, but the change
mother, "see, mamma, oh-pretty." After was soon made, and she was again assured that
these came a courtier of some oh~en court, with she would soon see hei~ papa.
a cloak loosely thrown over his shoulders, and "These traps," said the man, laying aside
a long sword carried at his side. There were the cloak and sword, "you can throw ir~ the
numerous other characters, some on horse- river when you get well on your way. Write
back, some in carriages, but most of them on and'kcep me informed of your movements and
foot. To give direcUons in some household du- remember for your trouble you shall have
ties Mrs. Macourty went into the house, leaving money enough to settle you for life." Look out
her little daughter busy playing amon~s~ the and see if there is any one passing."
9
flowers. Scarcely had she closed the door be- "No, this is a lonely spot, and there is no one
hind her when the courtier, with cloak and in sight."
long sword, appeared at the gate, opened it "Good h~e. Take good care of the child
and quickly advanced to the child: and let rue hear from you often." The car-
"Oh! see, see the man 1" cried the child, not riage halted for a moment and Percy MacVain
in the least frightened, stepped out and walked quickly away.
"Ceely, come go get seine cakes," he said, The boat was ready to start, one plank had
stooping over the child. Ills face was masked, been drawn in and the hands were at the oth-
hut she recognized his vo:ee, and dropping the er when the carrii~ge drove up. Taking the
shells and flowers from' her little hands, she child in her arms, closely muffled up, Sarah
eagerly answered:                        hurried on hoard. followed by the negro driver
"Ceelygo-get cakes-get mamma cake too." with the small trunk and packages that made
"Yes, yes, darling," the man replied. Taking up her baggage. Ia a few minutes the steam-
the little one in ~his arms he passed out of the boat backed out from the levee, and followed
gate, and going down the street turned the by the loud cheers qf the crowd on the shore,
hrst corner, where a carriage was waiting. was soon rapidly cutting th~ water on her trip
Placing the child in a carriage beside a woman northward. Sarah sought a stateroom and
closely veiled, the man entered it himself; and there remained with the kidnappe,~4 child.
told the driver to move on. The carriage was "Where Ceely going i" asked the child
driven rapidly away, turning many corners, through herstifled sobs, "where's mammal Ccc-
and passing through side streets to avoid pur- ly go papa," and then she would break into an-
suit, if aiiy should he attempted. other spell of bitter crying. Sarah used all
"Where Ceely going-don't-let Ceely go," her persuasive powers to console the child but
cried the child, in vain., "Go away, Ccely wants mamma. Go
"There, don't cry, Ceely, we will go se~ pa- away, where's mamma," and thus the little girl
pa," said the man, and then turning to the wo- scolded, cried and begged for deliverance, un-
man he said, "you understand, Sarah, the child til her young nature was overcome by exertion
must be well taken care of. Spare no money, and grief, and she sank to sleep on tl~e narrQw
and it' your supply ever runs low let me know, berth of the steamboat. Through the long
and more will be sent."                  night the baby sleptbut her rest was not traii-
quil, the trouble that filled her little heart
"i'll do what I can," replied the woman, "hut came forth in uneasy cries and smothered sobs
I don't like it. There is trouble at the bottom." that at times convulsed her whole frame.


A TALL' OF ANfIB BELL UhIE TIMES.
6                               3fAkDI (i1?AS;                                           blot or stain to mar their escutcheon, should ehPd, he took the litti
to distant friends that they too might         reject an offer of marriage from me, whose it to Mrs. Macourty, ~
CHAPTER II.               their aid.
Her household duties occupied but a few
minutes and then Mrs. Macourty returned' to  Mr. Macourty came home, and offered such    family iS as good and noble as her ownto marry with grief at the sight
her seat on the front gallery, and called to her consolation to his wife as words could convey,  with an American parvenu, whose very name she knew, that Cecelia
little girl. As she received no answer, she As she was certain the front gate had been iiiarks him as of a mongrel race, the mixture was spirited away. Th
of half-a-dozen fo"eio
thought the child was busy with the shells closed all the time, the conviction came upon                 un bloods."             that she must have bee
and flowers and went to look for her.  Not all minds that the child had been stolen, bat  He sat doiVn beside the harp, and for a few  after having been rol
finding her she went into the kitchen and ask- for what purpose, or by whom, no one could  moments ran over the strings with the magic
touch of a master of the instrument, then push- Old Mr. Cummings
ed Caroliue the cook if she had seen her. Be- imagine.
coming auxious abo~i t the child, she called to  In a handsome brick house, in the lower part  ing it from him, he continued Ws walk. ~I've very active in all the
struck her heart's core this time and although lost child. Phillip w
Lotty, the nurse, a~d a reguh~r search was of the city, over the door of which was suspend-  she will never know who has done ~t, I will minded boy, possession~
made, every corner was visited, rooms were ed the sign "Rooms to Let," Percy MacVain    have my revenge in knowing that she has suf- years and often sugge
ha
thrown open and every one about the house  d his apartments. The front room, or par-    fered."                                 taken, new places to be
gave their assistance. Lotty ran into the br, was 'on the first floor and the windows     Suddenly there came before his mind a V~5 efforts were vain, howe
street, up down h square, asking of eve- opening on the street were shaded by hand- ion of the innocent babe thus rudely torn from found, farther than th
and      ~e                                                                    a mother's arms, lie saw her sweet smile, nearly everybody belies
ry body if tbey had seen the lost child.  some lace curtains, supported by gilded cor-
"What is the matter, aunt Lotty,"      nices. The floor was covered with rich ear-    heard her merry laugh and remembered the
little                           asked, a petting, two large easy chairs, four mahogany  confidence with which she had come to him,
boy of six or seven years, as th    damask covered chairs, and a fine large sofa~  b~ welcomed him as a friend. Then he heard'
came up to him.        b'~b  in baby ,   were distributed about the ro~in.  Between     l~er cries of distress, her pleading for release  Two years passed b2
"Oh! Marser Phillip, my ~y - y      -. the front windows there was a piano of the                                                            CHAPT]
and her childish calls for the loved ones at thought that he might
Oh! Marser Phillip de dear little angel! Miss latest pattern and beside it sat a harp, while  honie. As these scenes grew more vivid, in Sarah Murrey, and ac
Ceely !" cried the woman, wringing her hands. at one side of the room was placed an elegant  spite of his efforts to drive them off, his anger whom he had gratified
"What about her, aunt Lotty I" eagerly "~  sideboard, covered with silver-ware, goblets  gave way, visious of his own childhood crowd- As the summer came uc
quired the boy.                          and decanters of the richest styles of cut glass.  ed in with them, he sank into an easy chair patient~ to make the prc
"Oh! she's done gone, she's don gone!  Namerou~3aintings, some of them choice copies  and was soon lost in a deep reverie, in which had not made when on
"Gone! where to, aunt Lotty?' exclaimed of the old masters, and fine engravings, adorn-  feelings of regret, and the not entirely extin- for fear that something
the boy.                                 ed the walls, and a handsome timepiece, with  guished sentiments of honor and manhood, tection. The cotton se
"Oh! I dauno, she's gone,"  as the re- other ornaments filed the marble mantel-piece,  took an important part.               over and he resolved to
P1Y                                      The back r~om was the bed-room, and was fur-
On the following day Mr. Macourty contin- so tbat his clerks could
Mrs. Macourty by this time I ad satisfied rushed with the same style of comfort and ele-  ned his sea~eh for his little daughter. Letters such business as requi
herself that the child was not in ti e house and gance.
with full descriptions of the child, the dress summer season. lie bac
same out to where the nurse and hillip were "Well, it is done and an old grudge is repaid," and jewelry that she wore, were sent to the po- of late, many invitation
standing.
"Lotty, go down to your master s store, ~ said Percy, as he pnced~ through the parlor, lice and municipal anth9rities ofSt. Louis, Cm- had been neglected, the
meditating on the events of the day. "The~re cinnati, New York, Boston and other important some to him and he ho~
said," and tell him we cannot find decelia. He will be no ball for he, ~   lie paused  citiesand a large reward wa~ offered for her dis- of a fashionable tour we
will know what it is best to do; hurry now, before the sideboard and taking up a decanter  cover. A traveling show was performing in the self-possession and good
my good girl, hurry."                    filled one the glasses with the lilaor it con-  city at tue time, and Mrs. Macourty conceived ed along the street, a d
"She must be near here," said Phillip, as the tamed. "As for Sally," he continued, "she is  an idea that her child was there a prisoner, off the gloom that oppreu
girl hurried away, "she could not go far."  as true as steel. 11cr f5lks served in the family  11cr husband with the proper authorities call- his mind, and he resolved
"I do not see how she got out of the front in the old country for generations and there  ed on the showman, a very honest, good heart- it. He had received mar
gate," said Mrs. Macourty, thoughtfully, more was not one amongst them more faithful than  ed man, who listened to their story with sym- Mardi Gras entertainment
to herself than to Phillip.              Sally." lie took the glass and draining its  pathy and readily gave his consent to have his which had been allowed
"Perhaps she has been stolen," replied the ~outents said, "Here's health to thee, Cecelia,  quarters searched, although he evid
ently A'elt on his table. The most 1
boy.                                     and sweet dreams for thy companions in this  grieved at the doubt thus throiva upon him, been given l'y Mrs. Robc
"Ohm! my God! Oh! 1-loly Mother forbid !" night's rest. Ha! ha! ha! So much for your The search being over, the kind-hearted man, though it was now long~
exclaimed the lady, becoming more excited as scorn of Percy MacVain." took full items of the appearance of the little his steps towards the fir
the idea forced itself upon her. "Who would Again he strode up and down the room, lash- girl and promised that if he met her on his Donald, to tender his cxc
stefil her? What would they do with my baby? ing himself into a furywith the fierce thoughts travels he would at once let Mr. Macourty hear ability. lie was ushered
Oh! where is she? Cecelia, my darling!" that crowded his brain. "To think," he said, from him. On Saturday some boys who had elegantly furnished parli
The search was continued, in which all the "That Cecehia Christie, the haughty aristocrat, lucen off fishing, found a child's dress torn and the house soon joined h
neighbors joined, looking and inquiring every- who with pride traces her descent through muddy on the banks of the canal, and one ef her in the old cruu4ry, ~
where they went. The police were notified, long generation of wealth apd nOl)ility as high them having heard of the abduction of the school-mate and company
the station houses searched, and messages sent as any that ever lived in Ireland, without a

7
e garment and brought
vho was overwhelmed
of it. It was the dress,
had worn theday she
uends came in and said
n thrown into the canal
bbed. The canal was
ut nothing was found.
ud his son Phillip were
efforts to trace up the
as a bright and clear
~ ideas far beyond his
sted new routes to be
examined. All their
ver, as no clue could be
child's dress, and so
red that she was dead.
Sn III.
~r, and Percy MacVain
now venture to visit
e the child, through
his spirit of revenge.
arer he grew more im-
)posed visit, which he
his last summer trip,
night lead to his de~
ason was now nearly
close up his accounts,
as usual, attend to
red attention in the
I been moody and dull
a to social gatherings
city had become frk~
~d that the excitement
uld restore his former
spirits. As he walk.-
etermination to threw
used him strength~ne~
Ito make asocial xis-
uy invitations to the
its this season, all of
to remain unanswered
brilliant of these had
~rt McDonald, and, r~l-
~ nat Easter, he turned
uc mansion of Mr. Me-
us~s for past unsocia-
in o the spacious and
ar, where the lady of
im. He had known
here she had been a
on of Mrs. Macourty~


8

~he was a small lady, mild and pleasant, with
~ kind heart that won her friends, and made
her welcome in every circle. Her health was
good, but she looked delicate, and this had
given her friends the idea that she was not
well, and extra care must always he shown for
her, lest somethingg should happen. This
caused herself and her husband to spend much
of their time in traveling.
"I thought you had taken orders and retired
from the world," said Mrs. McDonald, as he
finished rehearsing the usual excuses for not
calling before.
"Not yet~, Mrs. McDonald," ho replied.
"I knew that if you were in love, it must
have been with some of our Protestant belles 1"
continued the lady.
"And why did you think that I" he asked.
"Because I never see you in church," replied
)frs. McDonald. "It must be i~early three
years since you were at St. Patrick's."
"Not quite so long," he replied, an~oycd at
the mention of church, "Yet I am proud that
my absence has been noticed 1"
"Yes. I have heard some of our young la-
dies," she said, "wondering where Mr. Percy
MacVaIn kept him~ielf."
"My thank~ are due to the ladies for their
kind interest in my welfare," he replied, "and
as an evidence of my appreci~rtion of their
good will, I shall be more social in future."
"Now that is well said, and as a further
proof of your desire to please, you should give
us a wedding."
"But where shall I find a partner I" he in-
quired.
"Why, there is Miss Lucy Morton, how would
she do?"
"A beautiful lady, tall and commanding in
appearance," was the ironical reply.
"Bducutcd and refined," continued the lady.
"Just from the Louisville refinery," said he.
"Rich, and of good family," Mrs.. McDonald
continued. "Plenty of money, and of illustri-
ous ancestry," he sarcastically replied, "her fa-
ther was a shoemaker and her-"
"Why Mr. MacVain 1" exclaimed the aston-
* ished lady.
"Is it not so I" he replied, and then to give
a gloss of good hu~!or to his remarks he said,
"American aristocracy, you know, Mrs. Mc-
Donald, the coat of arms-a shoemaker's hench
or a tinker's furnace, with a bow of wooden
u utm egs."

"This, is a republican country~" replied the
lady with dignity, "and we have no si~ch proud
and unjust distinctions here."
"No? Well my observations of American so-
ciety had led me to Jelieve they were very
fond of aristocratic titles and exclusive in
their 'sets ~
"I pave seen nothing of that kind I" replied
the lady.
I but you are here, located like a star
in y~ur particular circle of society, and you
see very little beyond it, but I move through
all classes, and there is no country where ti-
tles are more cherished than in this, whether
it is General, Colonel, Major, Governor or
Judge, the title is pertinaciously claimed, and
the general tendency amongst the people, is to
look down upon their felloWs and exclaim, 'I
thank theo Oh! Lord that I am not as other
men!~~~
"Really, Mr. MacVain, your long seclusion
must have roused your judgment," the lady
replied, "you owe it to yourself to be more so-
cial in future, and shake off this unnatural bit-
terness."
"I meant no offense," said ho, "and as you
are, like myself, from fair and beautiful An-
trim, I did not expect you to champion the
American nation."
"I have spent many pleasant years here,"
replied Mrs. McDonald, "and have met many
true friends, therefore, I do not like to hear
them unjustly spoken of."
"Prosperity always has friends, Mrs. MeDon-
aid," ho replied, dropping once more into the
cold and sarcastic tone that had of late suited
his frame of mind; "money makes respectabil-
ity here, and without it, the descendant of any
of the heroes of the old revolution, 'is a nobody,
while the cobbler, or pork-packer of yesterday,
if he makes money, comes into the fii'st society,
no matter how rough and uncouth his manner,
or bow ignorant and illiterate his mind."
"That the poorest citizen may by energy and
talent rise to the noblest positions," replied.
the lady, "is only an evidence of the superior-
ity of a true republican government."
"Although I cannot endorse your opinions,
it would be ungallant in me to try 'to contro-
vert them," he replied, "and I suppose the
memory of a brilliant season, lends a charik to
your views of society here."
"We have had a season of mingled pleasure
and sorrow," said Mrs. McDonald, "the death

MARDI GRAS;

A TALE OF ANTE BELL UJ1[ TIMES.
of Mr. Cummings, followed as it was in so exchange of friendly adieus, ~IacVain depart-
short a time by that of his wife, was a very, ed. As he walked along the street, hin
sad event, both of them such excellent people, thought~ turned towards the home of Mr. Ma-
such good and kind friends to all around court. They had always been friendly with
them." him, and alttiough his offer of marriage had
"Mr. Cummings was a gentleman of the old teen rejected by the lady, she had treated him
school, high minded, refined, and the very since as an old friend, while her husband had
soul of honor," said MacVain, "and his wife, welcomed him when he visited their house in
an exemplary womi~n. What became of their. the most cordial manner. As h~ reviewed the
son P'                                   many happy hours be had passed with them,
"He will return with Mr. Gumming's brother, both before and since their marriage, he felt
who has come on from Brooklyn to attend to assured that he alone had treasured enmity
the settlement of the estate." and unkind feelings. He was a bold spirited
~"Poor Cummings, he was unfortunate, one man, quick to auger, and deep in revenge, but
loss after another, until at last I suppose there when that feeling had been satisfied, his bet..
is little left." ter nature returned, and he bad often heaped
"Mr. McDonald says there will be nothing benefits on those whom he had before consid-
after the debts and expenses are paid," replied ered enemies, as if he would cover up his evil
the lady. "Mrs. Macourty wanted Philip to acts with a load of kindness. With an im-
stay with her, she feels so attached to him for mense fortune at his command, he was careless
the interest he took in the search for her of money, and when applied to for charity
child." gave with liberality, and witl~out question.
"Yes, I have heard-it's very natural," replied Proud and aristocratic, he was acknowledged
MacVain, disconcerted at the mention of the as a leading man by those of his own circle in
injured lady's name, society, and by those in the humble walks of
"Poor Mrs. Macourty," continued Mrs. ~e- life, he was treated with deffei'ence and~e-
Donald without noticing his manner, "she has spect, which he received with the ease and
iiever been the same since the little darling grace of one entitled to it by right of rank ~nd
was stolen. She will not believe the child is education. The burning desire for revenge
dead, but mourns for her all the time-pale, against Mrs. Macourty, which he had carried
thin and nervous, oh! she has changed so in his heart for years, and which he had satis-
much." fled by kidnapping her little daughter, bad
"I have no doubt of it," he replied, still un- long been on the wane; the act which had ful-
easy on thu subject, "but she must feel-better filled the wish, had weakened the strength of
since they have another child to occupy her the feeling and he had begun to wish that he
mind." could do the injured lady some act of
"Yes, I know she does," said Mrs. McDonald, kindness to make amends for his cruelty. Ho
and a beautiful girl, too, but then it looks like was now fully r~solvod to visit Sarah Mur-
Cecelia and that constantly reminds her of the 'rey without delay to see the child, and several
lost one. If the child had died, you know-but times the thought passed through hi~ mind
you are not going I"                     that in the fall he would have her returned to
"I think I have made quite a visit," he re- her parents. As he formed these plans and
plied, preparing to leave, for the conversation turned them over in his mind, he cI~me .to the
had turned on a. subject that he could not fol- corner of Canal and Chartres streets, where a
low with composure. "I am going north in a lady and gentleman were standing looking in
fews days," he continued, "and hope that I the window. As he was passing, the lady look-
may have the pleasure of meeting you at some ed up, and he recognized Mrs.Macourty. Rais-
of the fashionable resorts during the season." ing his hat, with a hasty "good evening," he
"We shall spend the summer at Biloxi," re- hurried on. All that Mrs. McDonald had told
plied Mrs. McDonald; "we have a place there, him of the failing health of Mrs. Macourty
you know, and I much prefer it to the fatigue was more than true, her pale face overshadow-
of traveling and the annoyance of changing ed by a look of deep grief, through which
from hotel to hotel on a lout tour." there was no ray of hope, sent a thrill through
After a few more casual remarks, and an his heart that was akin to fear.


10

MA EDJ.I'J'.L2

When he entered his room, the gas was
burning, the furniture was arranged with care;
but indifferent to all this, he (Irew an easy
chair before the firepladb, although the weath-
er was warm and there was no ficed of a fire,
seated himself, and save way to the vjsious
tht the incidents of the day created in his
mind.
"I was a fool and a villian," thus ran his
thoughts, "to commit such an act. If I had
killed the child it would not have been so
bad, but this endless torture thit I know Ce-
celia feels and which I begin to sdare, is too
much. If she should die? My God! and I her
murderer, bloodless, yet bloody! A curse on
"this brooding mind, that, once injured never
rests until some mea~i damning act of retalia-
tion overpays the debt! What was it to mc,
who Cecelia selected, since she rejected me?
Am I a man, and yet follow like a snake for
revenge on tin offense that I would b~ ashamed
to acknowledge bad even ruffled myAemper?
What a foul blot it wouldbe on my name if
,once it was known-Percy MacVain a kidnap-
per! Oh! fool that I was-but I will set it all
right, the child shall be returned, and they
shall have proof of her identity, even if I my-
self, must face them with a full stat~ went of
"the facts."
He remained thus musing for a loll g time,
formed plans for bringing the kidnap ~d child
back to ~her parents, dwelt long on the joy
this would bring to her mother's he~~rt, and
enjoyed for a time a relief from the cjre that
had oppressed him, by anticipation of the
pleasure that would flow from his act f rCsti-
tution.
Going then to the fronPwiudow, he d ~scovcr-
ed a package laying on the piano, and, jAcking
it up, he carelessly opened it, saying to him-
self: "A package from Muller-the coat-looks
~vell. Muller is a good tailor and an industri-
ous man, deserves encouragement. Yes, that's
just the thing." As he spoke the paper fell
upon the ilorri, and be stooped to pick it up.
"A 'rroy paper, the Troy Budget, yes, but old."
As he was about to throw it down again, he
started as if electrified while he read:
"ThEn: On the 2d inst., ldiss Sarah Murrey, a native
of Glenarni, County Antrim, Ireland, formerly of New
York city, and for the past two years a resident of this
place."
"Dead! impossible !' exclaimed MacVain,
then, reading the notice again, he said: "Yes,
it must be her. I know no other Sarah Mur-

4. TdLE OP ANTE BELL Ui1f TUlIPS.

11

rey from our place. Dead and amongst stran-
gers, and the child-my God, what wilibecome
of her? And my letters, if they have fallen
into some s~marper's hands, what a wreck he
may iliake. Two months dead, and I not know
it-nh! well, if any one had found the letters
they would have written to me befQre this, but
what of the child? It is strange Sarah
did not tell those around her to send me word.
How came she in Troy, when all her letters
were dated in New York, and I thought she
lived there. This is ~ysterious. Can she have
played me false, abandoned the child and used
for herself the money I sent I" His anxiety to
visit the North was now greatly increased.
Winding up his business as hastily as he could,
paying attention only to such matters as he
could not leave to his clerks, he was in a few
days prepared to start for Troy.
-4.----
ChAPTER IV.
The Cu~rnings' estate turned out badly. The
old gentleman had been for ninny years a
leading merchant of New Orleans, and was
successful in amassing a very large fortune.
Lie was kind and generous almost to a fault;
being himself strictly honorable and just, he
was confiding in nature and jud~cd every one,
to be above deception and fraud. When the
financial crisis of '36 and '37 came on, he was
in the full tide of prosperity, and his paper
belonged to the "gilt edged" class. To him
his friends applied' for assistance when in
trouble, and he aided them without'stint or
limit. To some he loaned money, and for many
others he became endorser. Then there came
a time when those who met their financial en-
gagements were the exc~ptioTh ~o the general
rule. As fast as the notes which he had en-
dorsed were presented, Mr. Cumming~ paid
them, sacrificing, to raise the money, his stock
in trade, real estate and everything available.
To crown his misfortunes, an intimate friend,
interested in some of his business transactions,
ran away with nearly a hundred thousand dol-
lars and was never heard of afterwards. Be-
fore these accumulated disasters, his immense
fortune melted away, as rapidly as snow be-
neath the sun of June, and so it happened
that, after the estate was settled~ nothing was
left to his son Philip, but the worthless book
accounts and protested notes of his father's
once extensive business.

I

Philip had lived with the family of his uncle ant was a tall, slender man, with long, curling
in Brooklyn for three years, during which hair, a light moustache, blue eyes, and a good-
time he attended school, and in the leisure looking face. He was a man of dash and gal-
hours performed such services about the house lantry, knew how to be attentive and polite,
as were required. It very often happens that but had presumption and impudence enough
children do not appreciate the kindness of to push himself forward. He was a ready
relatives with whoni they are placed, when un- talker, and made whatever assertions suited
fortunately bereft of parents, and so it was his purpose, with a bold and decided manner
with Philip. The little services that he was thatprevented contradiction, if they did not
capable of performing became irksome to him, carry conviction with them.
and he began to think ~he was lQoked upon as "Here, Phil.," said Mr. Droll, "run over
a servant in his uncle's family. As this feeling the way and tell Bill to send me a paper of to-
grew within his heart, he resolved to strike bacco, Anderson's S6lace-and tell him if it is
out boldly for himself and he informed his not fresh I'll chew it up and never pay him."
frmncle of this determination. Mr. William "There's one of the ten dollar valencien col-
Cummings was a clerk in a leading New York lars gone out of this box," said Mr. Sellwell,
dry goods house, with a moderate salary, en I opening the box and counting them over.
which it required much management and "I sold it yesterday," said Mr. Droll.
economy to support respectably his wife and "Then why didn't you mark it off?"
four children. He was a kind-hearted maii, "You mark off your own sales, my boy, and
and had done all in his power to make Philip you'll do well."
at home and console him for his loss. He waa "Thnt'~ all very fine, Mr. Sinimons," said
much surprised at the boy's determination to Sellwell, "but if the old man saw that, there'd
leave a comfortable home, and reasoned ~viHi he a row."
him on the folly of his course. These remon- "He be d-d. I've forgotten in a week
strances so far prevailed with Philip that he more about the business than he ever knew."
consented to board with the family, upon con- "Who'd you sell it to, Pete I" inquired Se'll-
dition that his uncle should accept half of his well.
wages in payment for it. For the first few A littl~, squint-eyed woman in black,"
months Philip worked in a clothing store near "You had a good day yesterday, didn't you,
the Catherine Ferry, and afterwards went to Pete I"
the dry goods house of Barege, Muslin &amp; Co. "Good day! Of all the mean, squeezing, jew-
on Grand street. This was a large establish' iig old crones I ever saw, yesterday turnout
ment, employing forty or fifty hands and doing was worst. They caine from Jersey and Brook-
an extensive retail trade. Mr. Muslin was an lyn, and every one of "them came right to me.
old friend of Uncle William, and took Philip There was that fat woman in the sky blue silk,
as a package e and confidential errand boy, pay- with her daughter in a gray poplin, did you
ing him two and a half dollars per week, the see them I"
half dollar being the result of the aforesaid "Yes, what did they twant ~ Seliwell asked
friendship and to make a distinction between carelessly.
Philip and the other young lads in the store. "The old woman says, 'Have you any Jaco-
One morning in early June, about a year after net edging P says I, 'Yes meni, a very fine lot,'
Philip had commenced work, he was brushing and I took down the box. She commenced to
tip the embroidery department, preparatory to haul them over, pricing this, squinting at that,
the business of the day. Mr. Peter Droll was and criticizing the other. I saw in a minute
head of this part of the store, and Mr. Samuel ~vhat sort of a person I had to deal with. She
Sellwell, wan his first assistant. Mr. Droll was says, 'I want it to trim a baby's dress, and I
a short, thick-set man, with black hair and a think a yard and a quarter will do.' 'Oh! no,
heavy beard. lIe was about forty yeara of age, mamma,' says the young one, 'a yard ana a
and had been in the business nearly thirty half,' then they had an argument whether it
years, most of the time in the lace, embroidery should be a yard and a half or a quarter.
and trimming stock. He was a quiet, genteel 'Show me how much is a yard and a quarter,'
man, a great favorite with the ladies, to whom says the old one. So I showed her a little
he was "so polite and respectful." His assist- over a yard, making it short, so she would take


12      .A*LARDI GRAS;                 ATL  FATfBL  h[TlE.1

the half. Then she talked about prices, won-
dered, oh'd ! and ah'dI and finally took a yard
and a half at eighty cents."
" What was it marked, Pete?"
" Sixty cents !"                   .'
During this conversation the men had fin-
ished their arrangement of stock, and Philip
returned with Mr. Droll's tobacco. Mr. Muslin
called him to go to the postoffice. ,Going down
Grand street to Broadway, he caught on to the
rear of a stage going down town, and, keeping
out of sight of the driver, rode as far as the
Park. He now mingled with the crowd on the
street, and, as he passed along, stopped every
now and then to' look in the windows. While
standing admiringithe jewelry displayed in one
of the windows, and speculating on the length
of time it would take him to master fortune
enough to become the owner of one of the ele-
gant watches that tempted his gaze, a gentle-
man and lady paused a moment before the win-
dow and then passed on. Thelady was a small
-person, with a kind and beautiful face, and
leaned lovingly on the arm of hier companion,
a tall man, with an upright air and a steady
step that looked military. His round,full face
was covered with a heavy, dark beard, neatly
trimmed, his fine grey eyes beamed with good*
nature, and his whole appearance denoted that
he was a man of wealth, and enjoyed the use
of it most when alleviating the wants and suf-
ferings of his fellow creatures. As they crossed
the street towards the Astor, House, a little
girl, with a basket on her arm, accosted them
wifth the request, " Please buy some matches,
shoe-strings or pins." .She might have been
eight years old, certainly not more, a child of
slender form, pale and care-worn face, the hag-
gard look of which wfts relieved by a pair of
large, bright, black eyes. Her hair was black
as the raven's wing, and thrown carelessly
back, the long, matted locks falling over her
shoulders in uncombed disorder. Her face was
not handsome, but attractive; possessing a
charm that the beholder could not resist when
looking upoip, yet for which he could not ac.-
count when she had passed out of sight; The
lady and gentleman looked kindly at her, and,
gently refusing hei wares, went on their way,.
In front of the old church below, another little
merchant sat with a basket of apples before
her. She was apparently about the same age
as the one they had just passed. Her form was
strong and well developed, a round, smiling

face, on which the bloom of the peach and the
white of the lily shone out in such proportions
as indicated health and gave beauty to the
possessor. Her mild, blue eyes were shaded
with long, drooping lashes, that, as she looked
down, touched the velvet softness of her cheek,
and her light, brown hair lay in coquietish
ringlets on a broad, fine forehead, or fell in
waving abundance from a well shaped head-.
The weather was warm, and the sleeve of her
neat, calico dress was tucked back, showing a
round, well moulded arm, on which the dim-
ples came and went as, with care, she dusted
and arranged her little stock. The lady
paused, and, in the quickness of the movement,
brought her compa'nion around, facing the
girl, as she exclaimed, " Oh! what nice apples,
are they not, Robert 7" i
"Very pretty, indeed," replied the gentle-
man.   .    .
" Will you buy some, madam 7" said the girl,
looking up when she spoke. As she looked at
her childish face, full of animation ,at the
prospect of selling her apples, the lady said,
in a low voice, to her companion;:
" What splendid eyes, Robert, and a face so
innocent and beautiful." ,
" A good looking' child," he quietly replied,
and then answered the girl by asking the price
of the fruit-.
" These are five cents a piece," she replied,
pointing to one basket, " and these two and
three cents."
" These are very fine," said the gentleman,
stooping over the first basket, " and these are
good. Any of them would eat well."
" Buy some, Robert," said -the lady, as he
stood up again-.
" How much will you take for the lobi" said
he, smiling as he spoke.
"For all of them!I" exclaimed the girl. .
" Yes, and to deliver them for 'me, it is no~t
far."
"I think-well, two dollars and a half-if
you please sir." .
" You will bring the apples this evening, at
five o'clock," said the gentleman, dropping a
five dollar gold piece into her hand and giving
her a card; " thi-s is my card, Parlor B., Astor
House. You can bring me the change, too."
"Yes sir, thank you sir," was the reply of
the delighted girl.
" You can find the place ?"
" Oh ! yes sir, I will be there." .

WUVIJ~a I y dVI  irecU- nod.
tion, with an interest that showed they were " And what would your mother say 7"
strangers in the city.                    "I'm 'bliged to you,".- she replied, with a
When Philip came to where the apple girl sneer, " but I ain't troubled with anything of
sat, he stopped to speak to her, for, in passing that kind."
and repassing so many times, there had begun  "Shame to speak so of a mother," said-Philip.
an acquaintance between them.          -"Nobody wants any of your gab," said the
"Mary, I want an apple," said Philip, offer- girl, "come now, Sis, just you follow my ad-
ing her two pennies.    *                vice, go with me to-night and PIl show you
"I can't sell you quny now," she replied, with some jolly fun."
a smiling, quizzing look.                . "No, I can not, replied Mary, decidedly, "I
"Not sell any !" he exclaimed,         would not be so deceitful, besides my mother
"No," she replied, laughing at his astonish- would not let me be out at night."

*" I shall look for you at .five," said he, as he
started away with the lady, " good bye."
" Good bye and than you, sir," replied the
girl.                     .     '
" Why did you buy so many apples, Rob-
ert P" asked the lady.
"Well, Mary, you seemed to take such an
interest in the girl," he replied, laughing,
" that I thought I would set her up in busi-
ness."
"I suppose they will keep," continned the
lady.
" The apples !. yes, all we will ever see of
them."
" What do you mean, Robert I" -
" I mean that she will never bring us the
aplesC."
" Oh ! you wrong the child, Robert."
" You will see," he replied, " I do not expect
her to bring either the apples or the change."
" Thea why did you leave it with her I"
" To show you, Mary, how little you can
judge of these wild children of New York by
appearances. Now here is one, innocent look-
ing and--well, beautiful, if you will, and yet
I'll guarantee she will' never be seen by us
again.n",
" Then itkwas wrong in you to tempt her,"
replied the lady. '
" Perhaps it was," he replied, with more
seriousness, " I never looked at it in that
Slight.n"
"I did not think you :would judge so harsh-
ly," said the lady, "and I still think she will
do what is right."n.
"I hope she will come, Mary,"~ he replied,
"for since you mention it, I think it was not
right to tempt her to do wrong."

ed look, " you see I've been doing a wholesale
business."
" What's th6 matter, beauty," said the
match girl, who now came up.
Mary looked surprised at the new-coiner,
and after a moment's reflection, asked what
she meant.
-"Wihat do I mean l" replied the other, "why
what are you packing up for I Are you going
to leave Broadwayi You'll find your beauty
will get more customers here than elsewhere."
"You are candid," replied Mary, her face
coloring, half in anger, " I am not going to
leave Broadway, however, but I have sold these
apples, and, therefore, need not stay here, but
will get more and come back."
" Where's your customerI" asked the other,
and then, making a deep reverence to Philip,
she asked, "Ilas this young gentleman bought
you out ?"
" No, I haven't,'" replied Philip, sharply.
" The gentleman who bought them, has gone
on towards Wall street," replied Mary, "and
I am to leave the apples at the Astor House."
" Oh ! he hasn't paid you for them," said the
match girl."
" Yes indeed he has," said Mary, triumphant-
ly, " and I have two dollars and a half change
to take to him,"
" And you're going to do it ?"
" Of course I am."
" Well, you're a green 'un, I'd like' to catch
myself doin' such a thing."
" Why, what would you do 7"
" Do! I'd clap the money in my pocket, move
to another point, sell my apples again, and
keep the whole of it."
" Oh! you wouldn't be so wicked !".
" My eyes! wouldn'tIf Well, you wait till
you've seen as much of rough and tumble as I
have," replied the match gii'l, with a knowing

"They walked on, discussing this and other |
subjects, admiring the fine buildings, and


14

MA R])

"Oh! you've got a mother," replied the
other, as she started off; "well, by-by, doughy,
i'll see you again.~~
"The gentlenman gave me his card," said
Mary, showing it to Philip, "and I would not
disappoint him for the world."
"You are right, Mary," replied Philip, as he
took the card. "Robert McDonald, New Or-
cans," he exclaimed, "why, I know him, he is
such a good man and his wife is a sweet lady."
"It must have been his wife that was with
him," said Mary, "and, as you say, she is a
real angel-looking lady."
Philip now thought of the postoffice, and'
bidding Mary good-bye, he hastened on. After
getting the letters, he caught on behind a
Grand street stage, and rode up, arriving at
the store just as Mr. Muslin was beginning to
get impatient at his long absence. The match
girl continued on her way, offering her wares
to those she met, with a careless indifference
that showed long usage to the roughness of the
world. Turning into Dey street, without
noticing where she was going, she ran against
a gentleman coming to Broadway, and, without
apology or being in the least dise&amp;ncerted,
said, "Buy some matches~ sir!"
"No," was the sharp re~~ly.
"Well, you needn't st4ke fire," said she,
with a sneer, "nobody's 4oing to cry if you
don't."
"You are an impudent g ri," said he.
"You're no gentleman ,"~he replied, with a
toss of her head, "or you couldn'tt speak to a
lady that way.''
" This is the first ~ said he, smiling,
"that I ever knew a lady tp be a match girl."
"I'm a match for you, ar~y how."
"Ceme now," said he; "don't you think it is
wrong to act so bold and unwomanly."
"Don't give me none of your lectures," said
she, drawing near to him, "I had enough of
that thing when they called the mission last
"But don't you think," said he, looking at her
quite earnestly, "that if you were quiet and
genteel you would sell more of your goods I"
"Lord bless you, no P' said she, with a
knowing nod, "you men loves t~ be run
against, fooled with and talked to, and I tell
you I don't carry my tongue in my pocket.~~
"How old are you I"
"Don't know," she replied carelessly, "some
says I'm nine and some seven, so I splits the
difference and calls myself eight."

U~JfAS;                                                             A fIL4LE OP ANTE
"Where does your mother live ?"            he was about to enter one of the plain brick
"Ain't got no mother, nor father, and, for  houses halfway down the block, when another
that matter, no friends, neither. I goes and  person accosted him, with,
comes as I likes, and it's nobody's business, so  "Good morning Mr. MacVain."
long as I pays my way.~~                      "Well, Williams any news I"
"Humph! you're a. strange creature," said    "Oh! no, sir, just the same old ~
he, musingly, "what's your name ?~'            "I wish you h~d been with me to-day," said
"Icall myself Cecelin, the wanderer."      MacVain, "I think I have at last found the
"Cecelia!"                                 right person."
"Yes, that's a pretty name, ain't it I"      Which !-the woman ?"
Cecelia, about the right age too," said he   "No the girl," replied MacVain. "I wish you
musingly; I wish Williams was here."        to watch me ~0-morrow on the corner of Broad-
"What's that you say I" asked the girl.    way and Dey4 streets about noon. You will see
"What else is your name besides Cecelia ?"  me talking with a match girl; when we separ-
"Well I think that's enough," she replied  ate, follow h9r and see what you can make of
pursing up her lips and looking wise,"-but   her."
some folks don't, so they add Benson, and I    Percy MacVain entered the house, and going
lets em do it."                              into his own room, Sat down to study in his
"Yes-'-Cecelia Benson-Benson, I don't re-  mind the features of the strange child he
member any friend of 5arah's by that name,"  had met, to trace in her face some likeness to
said he thoughtfully. "Benson-there are plen-  Mrs. Macourty, for he now believed that he
ty of them in the old country, but none that  had at last found the ki~Inapped child.
she ever kuew."                                Forfour years he had almost entirely neglect-
"What are you talking about I" said she.   ed his buSiness to follow up this search. In
"I was thinking," he replied.  E~          Troy he had found, after a long inquiry, the
"Oh! well if you're going to think, I'm off,"  house where Sarah had boarded, and the land
she replied, "but you ought to buy some      lady gave him all the information she could.
matches now-cos we're good friends, eh! ain't  Sarah's trunk was there, and this he was al-
we?"                                         lowed to search. A very good wardrobe, a let-
"Yes, yes, certainly," said he arousing him-  ter from son~e friend who signed her first name
self; "now here is four bits."               only, and which contained no items of interest,
'Tour bits," said she taking the money~    a gold watch and a considerable sum of men-
"that's what we call four shillin', but itseall the  ey, were the only articles belonging to the de-
same, it'll pass."                           ceast~d in the house.. MacVain had written
"Well I don't want any matches now," said  her a great many letters-what had become of
he, "but meet jue here to-morrow at twelve   them? The landlady said, and one of the ser-
o'clock and I'll dive you another half dollar  vants who hhd been hn especial favorite with
and take the matches."                       Sarah, corroborated the statement, ttat Sarah
"Will you now ?" she said, "that's clever of  received a great many letters, some with for-
you. What's the world coining -to? There's a  ciga postmarks, am3d others from  different
gentleman trusts Beauty  with five dollars,  parts of the Union, but that she had carefully
which anybody would think was alun~y trick,  destroyed them  all, sometimes burning them
and here's another gives inc four shillin'! My  as soon as received. They had often remarked
eye, I'll have to join the Mormons or turn a  this peculiarity and were quite sure that she
Millerite, the world's a coming to an end sure,  had preserved no letters; they did not know
and I must get some religion\ somewhere !" -  why she had done so, i~ having been none of
"You are a wild child," said the gentleman  their business, and they asked no questions.
reprovingly, "but you will meet me to-mor-   She had no child with her, none had ever visi-
rowe?"                                      ted her, and they had not heard l]er speak of
"Oh! to be sure! I never was known to dodge  any; in fact she seemed to avQid society, and
a good thing," said she, as she went away, "and  kept her affairs to herself.  In the search
especially a soft one like this."           amongst her clothes, MacVain, had discovered,
The man continued his walk up Broadway for  what escaped the notice of the others, a pair of
some distance, then turning into a side street~ infants shoes, but little worn, and these he

BELL UII( TIMES.
placed in his coat pocket, never doubting that
they were the same that the ~i1d had on
when carried away. There was no clue to the
matter there, and after spending several
months in the neighborhood, he went to New
York. An advertisement for a thorough and
oompetant detective, which he inserted in one
of the daily papers, brought about an inter-
view with Mr. Henry Williams. Williams was
a native of the city, a man of excellent char-
acter, but one who in his early days, had.
been "through the ~ and knew every
crook and turn in it. He had served as a spe-
cial officer in the service of several banks and
railroad companies, and had made the "secret
service" his especial study, and in working up'
some famous cases had gained a wide reputa-
tion. MacVain wanted now his whole time,
and when he stated the compensation he
would require, closed with him at once and
detailed to him a history of the case, suppress-
ing only the real name of the child* sad his
own agency in her los~. Since that time Wil-
liams had spent his time in working up the
history of every wan~eriug girl that by any
reasoning he could think was the right one.
Besides his regular salary, a large reward was
to be paid him on the successful termination
of his service, and he had become, from long
study, deeply interested in ~he case. Seve~l
tunes he had thought he 'vas on the road
to success, but after spending weeks, sou~times
months in hunting up the history of the girl
he had picked out as tl~ lost child, he would
discover her parentage or place of birth,
friends and relations, and would have to com-
mence on another track. He was, therefore
much pleased to find there was at last a good
prospect t~or success. He as well as MacVain,
rested easier that night, with the hope of an
early ter~nination to their long and tedious
hunt.
CILAPrER V.
When Mr. McDonald returned to his rooms at
the Astor, he was well tired out with his long
walk, andlaying down ona sofa, he advised his
wife to take a good rest before preparing for
ihni~er. She sat down in a large arm chair and
declared herself completely tired out. While
he untied her bonnet and loosened her shawl,
he told Robert that she wished he had brought
vith him some of the nice apples they had


10                  MARDI GRAS;

bought, as sh~ felt hungry. lb advised her
to ring t~e b~jl and order some lunch, observ-
ing with a smile, that the apples would not
eome until live o'clock. Mrs. McDonald made
no reply, but taking her bonnet and shawl
went to the center table to lay them oat of her
hands.
"Look, Robert !" she exclaimed, pointing to a
large pile of apples heaped upon the table;
"will you have one 7" she asked triumphantly
holding up a splendid specimen.
"I am right well pleased," he replied, "that
you are right and I will eat one with a good
relish."
"You see, Robert, the girl is honest."
"Is the change there, too 7" he asked.
"No, but I will guarantee that it will come."
"I have no doubt of it. At live o'clock the
girl will bring it, I expect, so as to be sure that
I get it.
And so they rested themselves, took their
dinner and returned to their parlor to read the
magazines with which they were provided. At
five o'clock a servant knocked atthe door and
being told to come in, said a girl was waiting
to see Mr. McDonald-and obeying that gen-
tleman's wishes, he admitted her. She came
forward modestly and saluted the lady and
gentleman with an easy grace, 1and resuming
her erect position with an air of~imple dignity,
said that she had delivered the ~pples early, so
that she might buy more and resume her place
on the street, and she had now called with
the change, which, as she euciduded her cx-
planatioi~, she placed in Mr. McDonald's band'
"You are a good girl," said Mr. McDonald
kindly, "and deserve to be encouraged; take
this change and keep it, it will help to in-
crease your stock, or get some article you
need."
"I thank you, sir," she replied, "but I would
rather not."
"Not take it 1" exclaimed the astonished
gentleman.
"No, sir, if you please," and then she added
with a dignity far beyond her years, "I. have
only performed my duty, and therefore ails en-
titled tono reward."
"You have acted honestly, my child," said
Mrs. McDonald, her face glowing with pleas-
ure, "and in a world of temptation, such ac-
tions deserve both commendation and reward."
"My wife is right," the gentleman said,
"take the change."

"I cannot, sir, but I thank you all the same."
"Why can not you take it, you are welcome
to it 7"
"My mother, sir, always tells me to accept
of no money, that I have not honestly earned."
"What is your name?" asked Mrs. McDonald.
"Mary Collins, ma'am."
"Hdw old are you, Mary 7"
"I was eight years old last Shrove Tuesday,"
said M4ry.
"Indeed! you are a Catholic, I suppose.~~
"Yes, ma'm," the girl modestly replied.
'~That's a good girl," replied Mrs. McDonald.
~'I am sure you are a great assistance and con-
solation to your mother."
Mary then bade them good-bye and started
for home. Going down Eulton street, she was
soon in the crowd of 'people who were all hur-
rying towards the ferry-house. There were
females of all ages, from girls like herself to
lecrepid old women, from the hat factories,
book-binderies, cloak makers, tailor shops and
stores of different trades where they were em-
ployed to sew, fold, cut out or do other work.
There were crowds of men and boys, of all
ages and belonging to every class and trade,
the shop boy with his basket or can, in which
the lunch that made his noon day meal was
carried, the porter, carpenter, and black-smith
covered with the dust and smoke of a hard day~s
toil, the clerk, ,ner'Shant, broker and profes-
sional man, in all the styles of dress known to
a city, from the plain Quaker, with his broad
b imined hat, to the cnnse~ientiid clerk in the
la est style of garments and shining beaver
hn~t. All were hurrying, like the waters in a
sw~lien river, towards the one point of exit
fro~u the great city, seemingly unconscious of
th~existenc~ of those around. Near the mar-*
ke~ a man was standing, apparently waiting
for the arrival or passage of some one. lie
was tall and commanding in appearance and
dressed with scroupulous neatness, rich in ma-
ter~al, without auy of the show or flash of a
fo~ or man of the town. Was he studying
the phases of human nature in the passing
crowd? In this rushing, bustling throng there
were hearts as lonely and isolated, as if they
were lost in the forest of the west. The man
of wealth and ease passed along, and at his
side were those oppressed with care, want and
misery. The young girl, tender in years, whose
face, pale and thin, yet clouded with a look of
boldness and wordly knowledge, gave evidence

A TALE OF ANTE BELLUM TIMES.
of the pinching poverty that had driven her away from the pier, a
from home, where childhood usually nestles, time ma(le a rush and
to struggle for existence, was followed by the moved further out t
lady whose affluent circumstances afforded her threes and putting
alIthat heart could ~Vish or money buy. There jumped on. Then em
they go, the rich and poor, the lame, blind and iug through the gat
sick with the strong and robust, the educated height of his speed, th
and refined side by side with the unlettered, stream, but nothing
rough and uncouth; youth and age, an ac- amongst the crowd
tive, living stream, whose numbers would al- shudder of horror an
most lead a stranger to believe that the city uttered an involuntary
would soon be empty.                     more, the daring youi
As they went by, Percy MacVain, for he was tile boat and careless
the svrangei~ standing there near the market, chain.
looked with eagerness at the features of every  "Why, Philip," said
young girl that passed, to discover some line "what a reckless jut
or trace or movement that would give a clue near missing the boat.'
to the object of his weary search. Por three  "Oh, no, I didn't, ~l
years; whenever in the city, it had been his sure of my distance."
custom to place himself near some of the lead-  "But some of these d
ing ferries every night, and watch thus in the  "Such jumps are mad
crosVds that left the city for their homes,  "I don't see why yo
hoping to discover the lost child. But this so,"she replied.
evening his wish was changed, he believed  "There was no risk,
that in the little match girl, he had found the you go in the gate and
object so long and patiently pursued, and he this boat and that is w
had now taken one of his old~tands, to see if When the l'nat read
she would pass that way. He felt a relief of they went ashore an
niin~ he had not known for years, and was which was now li"ht
quite conscious that during some of the dreams people taking an even
of joy, yet to come, which had con'e over his to some trifling purcha
mind that evening, the match girl might ing into Myrtle aveum
have passed without his noticing her. Mary iii near Fort Green, w
noticed the stranger, and as she was passing street they were soon
looked up at him, when by an unlucky chance ~raine buildings, at the
her foot slipped, and she stumbling forwards, stopped. It was like
before she could resist the force of the slide story house, with a sine
fell upon the pavement, and the apples in one doors and windows w
of the baskets were scattered over the side- shutters on the latter lj
walk. She was up in an instant, and busy in out and gone. There~
gathering up the fruit, in doing which she side, communicating wi
was assisted by MacVain. Confused and deep- showing that some atte
ly blushing at her awkward accident, she said, neatness and convenient
"Thank you sir, don't trouble yourself." A crowd of children wer
"It is no trouble," he replied, as he looked several of whom came
admiringly at her beautiful face and caught a Mary and were kindly a
glance of her full~lue eyes, "you had an ugly had promised her, wh~
fall, did you hurt yourself ~" out, that he would bri
"Oh, no, sir," she replied, and receiving the and now saying that h~
last apple that he had picked up, she thanked day, he bade her good-
him again, and hurried away. As she entered his uncle's house. Mar3
the ferry-house she joined the crowd that was and went into the room,
hurrying to the boat that was then on the a candle, an old woman
point of leaving. The boat moved slowly She was a person of lou

17
ud those a little behind
sprang on board. As she
hey come in twos and
forth all their powers
s young man came rush-
~s and running at the
o boat was far out in the
* daunted he leaped-
)n the boat there was a
d fear, while the female
"Oh," but in an instant
ig man lighted safely on
sly stepped across the
Mary, as hecarne to herb
up that was, you came
ary," he replied, "I was
ays you will fail."
Le every day," he replied.
a should risk your life
Mn~ry," said he, "I saw
I was sure yo~i were on
hy I did it."
~ed the Brooklyn pier,
d up the main street,
ed and crowded with
ing walk, or attending
ses in the stores. Turn-
they continued on un-
lien going into a side
before a row of small
third of which Mary
the others, a low, one
dl stoop in front. The
re rickety and old, the
icing nearly all broken
~as a little alley at the
th the small back yard,
ntion had been paid to
Lee in building the row.
e playing on the street
I
forward and spoke to
answered by her. Philip
ile they were walking
ng her a book to read,
would do so on Sun-
night and started for
opened the front door
where by the light of
* was yet busy sewing.
stature and in former -
C


0

1i

years had been stout and robust, but age, ex-
posure and sickness had left, as it were, only
the skeleton of her former self. Her face was
mild, and bore a pleasant look, though now
pale and care-worn. Her hair was thin and sil-
vered over with long years of care, and many
disappointments in life. Her dress, well worn,
had been brushed, mended and turned, and her
whole appearance was that of a person who
had seen good times, and even yet struggled
bard to keep up a respectable appearance,.
Stooping over, Mary kissed her and tenderly
inquired how she felt.        e      ,
"I feel better, my child," she replied, taking
off her glasses and wiping them in a mechani-.
cal way as she spoke, "as the summer comes
on I gather strength, and hope for even better
yet."
"I am glad to hear you say so, mother," the
child replied, "I am sure when your health is
good we will get along finely."
"Yes, dear, but I can hardly expect ever to
be strong again.n"
"Do not say so, dear mother," the child re--
plied earnestly, "what would I do without
youi Think of all that and cheer up.n"
"I do; think of it often," said her mother,
"and in truth it is the only reason why I would
wish to live.n"
"See, I brought you some nice jelly," replied
Mary, "and a mutton chop for your breakfast,
I am sure you will relish them."
"You are always thoughtful, Mary, dear."
Mary then busied herself in preparing their
little supper, of which she ate with the hearty
relish of youth, and the neat arrangements,
with the excellent manner in which the food
wais prepared, made even her invalid mother
enjoy the meal. After the dishes were washed
and put away, she took a book and read for a
short time, after which they said their evening
devotions together and then retired to rest.
CHAPTER VL.
-As the twilight shadows gathered over the
city, work-shops, stores, manufactories and
offices poured forth their operatives, workmen
-and managers, each one seeking the direction of
that oasis in the desert of life, called home,
where for a, few short hours of night their
bodies should find rest and their 'minds be re-.
lieved of the load of care and anxiety brought

I

re
ut
s.
a
y
g

19

looking at the new corner, "if you want a
seat, Sally, take a box, for that's my chair."
"I guess I pay as much as any of you in this
room," replied the large girl, "and I've as
good a right in here."
" Oh! you're always around when there's
anything good to be had for nothing," said
Cecelia, "get up out of that chair, you
sponge'"
" Say that again, and I'll--"
" You'll what I" said Cecelia, angrily,
" What'll you do? Turn the North River in on
us i"

by the thoughts of the uncertain morrow. In
the throng that moved up town, Cecelia Ben-
son, the match girl, pushed her yray along, el-
bowing this one and jostling another of the
crowd with a careless indifference to their feel-
ings or opinions. She passed out of one street
into another, until, turning into one of the
short streets that cross Centre, she entered one
of a row of high brick buildings, around the
door and alley way of which a crowd of rag-
ged children, and older boys and girls were
gathered, talking, laughing and disputing
with each other. As Cecehia ,came forward
they stopped their play and conversation,
some as if in fear and others in admiration of
tlhe new corner. One, a boy of about fourteen
years of age, with a coat, the tail of which
was very long, and the arms very short and of-
ten patched, addressed her.
"I say, Ceal, how much did you make to-
day7" .
-"None you're business, Jake," was the short
reply.
"You need'nt bite about it," said Jake-.
"Well, you need'nt poke your nose in other
people's affairs," replied the girl. She entered
the house, followed by the boy and one of the
larger girls. Passing through the long, dark
hail, in which the nd and dirt of passing
feet for months had accumulated, she went up
the winding back stairs, rickety and worn,'
while here and there great pieces of tlze plas-
tering had fallen out. All the way up, the
walls were so blackened with the smoke .and
dirt of years, that it would have been hard
to even suppose they were ever white. Still
ascending until she reached the fifth and last
story, Cecelia went along a dark entry, at the
end of which, through an open door, she en-
tered the small room that constituted the
home of herself and three of the other young
girls of the place. In one corner of the room
a large sized mattress was rolled up, and the
clothes belonging to it werepiled over it with-
out care or order. Two single mattresses were
placed side by side in another part of the
room, and the coverings of these were arranged
ready for their occupants. A medium sized
pine table sat before the small fireplace, and
served both as a dining and centre table.
The room contained two chairs, and some
small boxes that answered the double purpose
of holding the wardrobes and other possessions
of the occupants, and when necessity required,

MARDI GRAS ;

A-TALE Oh' ANTE BELL UA TIMES. 1

"If I ain't, I've got the money to buy it
with." As she spoke she took a small pitcher
off the table, and, turning it over, gave it
a good shake in lien of washing it; "here,
Jake, go down to the Corner and get some
beer, a loaf of bread, and let them put a rare
done dime steak in the loaf."
"Let him get some cheese, Ceely."
"Well ,ge t some, Jake," she replied, " and
don't be gone all night-and, look here, Jake,"
she said, calling him back,- " don't drink none
of th9 beer till you get back."
While he was gone the girls cleared the
table and placed the chairs for themselves and
a box for their messenger. He was back Very
soon, and with him came a girl fifteen or six-
teen years of age, who very coolly seated herself I
in one of the chairs, and ordered the boy to
spread out his purchases'.
"Well, I like that considerable," said 1411y, ,

were used as seats. .Around the wall we
hung or pasted up, numerous pictures ci
from the illustrated papers of the day, to
from books, or picked out of the dirt boxes
front of dry goods and variety dealers' store
A candle, half consumed, was burning on th
table, seeing which the girl said,.
"Somebody's precious wasteful, to light
candle and go off and leave it a burning. Hop
it's. one they paid for themselves.'' A heav
breathing attracted her attention, and turnin
around she saw one of her companions layin
on one of the small mattresses. "Betsy, Bel
sy," she said, shaking the sleeping girl ; "Bel
sy, you're on myi bed andl you ain't undresse
neither. Say, look at you, with your dirt
feet on my new quilt."
"Go away, and leave me alone," said the oth
er, half aroused from her shumber.
"You're drunk, Betsy," said Cecelia, "an(
you're in my lied."
"Don't care," drawled out the other.
"Oh! you don't! Well, I'll see,"; replied Ce
celia, now thoroughly angry. As she turne
to search for something'in the shape of a whii
or stick to wake up Betsy, she was interrupted
by the entrance of Jake and the girl with him,
This girl was one of those who occupied the
large bed, and was a favorite, with Cecelia.
" Look, Nelly," said Cecelia, " there's Betsy
in my bed, as drunk as she can be."
" Oh ! never mind her," relied th   il
"hv  yuaythig good to eat, Ceely I"

t- "Take your old chair 1" said the other, start-
d ing for the door.
y "Come back here, Sally," said Cecelia,
wiping out a tumbler with the skirt of her
- dress, " come, have a glass of beer andi some-
thing to eat."
dThe girl came back iind seated herself at the
table on an empty candle box. The conversa-
tion almost ceased during the time they were
. eating, each one helped themselves and the
beer was circulated until finished. The boy
was the first to finish his meal. Getting up
from the table, he went to the mantel-piece
.and took up a pack of well worn cards, the
dirty backs and frayed edges of which spoke
of their long service. Again seating himself
at the table, he began to shuffle and deal the
hands for an imaginary game.
" Let's play a game of seven-up," said the
oldest girl.
"Oh, no, Sally, let's play euchre," said
Nelly.
" Poker is the most amusenest game," said
Jake.
"Well, now, I tell you what it is," said
Cecelia, "nobody plays that can't show their
money before they commence."
" You're terrible pertickler," replied Sally.
" I don't care," said Cecelia, as she cleared
the table, " I ain't going to play for nothing."
'd I'm willing to that," said Sally.
"Yes, but let's see the documents," the
other replied, " them as looses never pays un-
less the money's up."
As she was determined on this point, each
one produced the money they /had, Nelly and
Sally about a dollar and a half each and Jake
a dollar, at which Cecelia triumphantly count-
ed up her capital of nearly four dollars, re-
marking that she knew all along that none of
them could match her.


20

"Take the pitcher, Jake," said Nelly,
throwing out a five cent piece, "and get some
more beer before we commence."
"I am tired of beer," Sally exclaimed, laying
out a dime, "put in all round and let him get
some whiskeyy."
"Whiskey's too common," said Ceceliri,
making her addition to the refreshment
money, "let's have a bottle of claret."
Claret was decided upon, and Jake soon re-
turned with a bottle of that article.
The game was commenced at once, and each
one entered into it with a coolness and calcu-
lation that showed they were no new hands at
it. The, bets were made freely, and, for the
parties eng~iged, heavily; thQ fortunes of
chance, whether for or against, were taken
with apparent indifference, while the wine was
passed around often. After they bad been
playing an hour or more, Cecelia and Sally
only were in oh the hafrd, the former quietly
covered the money with her hand and, said,
"You forfeit this money; you are cheating,
as~ d I claim the pool."
1" What do you mean by that I" indignantly
replied the other, reaching out for the money.
"No, you don't," said Cecelia, "just take
them two cards out of yont sleeve, you can't
come that on me."
Finding herself caught, the other girl
dropped the cards on the floor, and tried~ to ex-
plain that she had lost them while dealing the
last hand. Cecelia kept the money, some
liquor was sent. for, and the game continued.
It was after midnight when they stopped play-
ing and retired to sleep, fortune having favored
Cecelia, who had won nearly all their money
from the others. Aftershehad gone to bed, sleep
refused to come to her relief; the liquor which
had stupilied her companions seemed to have
excited her nerves and driven away the possi-
bility of sleep. She thought' of the events of
the day, laughed heartily as the idea of some
of the scenes passed through her mind, and
wondered what MacVain wanted with her the
next day. Then the idea of a pleasure trip oc-
curred to her, and she resolved to go down to
the fishing banks on the following~ day. She
remembered a boy she used to know who sold
papers on a railroad train, and she thought
that it must be a pleasant life to travel about
from city to city, with so many changes of
scene and hurried along by the bustle and ac-
tivity of the traveling crowds. Being of a

restless, changing natnr~, these thoughts, us
they dwelt in her mind, made such an impres-
sion on her, that she determined to leave the
place at once, and seek new adventures amidst
new scenes. Why should she remain there?
Without mother or further to control ~r guide
her young mind, no relative to whom she could
gb in joy or grief, not even a friend for whom
she felt more than the friendship of the pass-
ing hour, she began to think her present life
irksome, and longed for the coming day, that
she might put her new i~esolve into actions.
She slept but little; nuder the excitement of
the dreams that haunted her mind, she could
take but fitful naps, from which she ev~r and
anon would start up, and look out anxiously
for the first sign of the coming day. When at
last It broke forth in all the gorgeous loveli-
ness of a June morning, she hurried down
stairs to the back room, which was occupied
by a junk dealer, who was also lessee of the
entire house, renting the rooms to the differ-
ent occupants, by the day, week or month,
taking care in every instance to get paid in
advance. No extra lodgers were allowed in
the house; visitors, even, though they shared
the bed occupied by their friend, were obliged
to pay for their nights' lodging,' or it was
charged to the person who invited them. This
rule was rigidly enforced, as Mr. Sanderbund
said, to "keep up der dignity mit der house."
When Cecelia entered she found him, by the
dim light of a lamp, examining the purchases
made by his wife, during his absence on the
previous day.
"hhumph! vet you want I" he asked.
"I'm going to leave," was the curt reply
"Vy ~ Dat ish a nice room."
"I didn't say it wasn't."
"Vell, it is so cheap as wet they ask enny
vere else," said he.
"I don't care anything about that," Cecelia
replied.
"Vet is der matter?" he asked, for she al.
wayS earned a fair amount of money, was good
pay and never higgled at his prices. "You vill
not geta more better place in der sitie."
"That's all true, I suppose," she replied,
"but I'm going to leave the city."
"Leave der sitie !" he exclaimed.
"Yes," she replied,'With mock dignity, "I'w
goingto spend the summer with my cousin,
the senator."
"Vell, I spose dat ish all right," he replied,

U

U

MARDI GIMS;

21

A TALE OF' AN!PE BELLUM TIMES.

,, pill ish paid and you shall go yen you
likes."
"Yes, but rriy bill is paid for the full month,"
she said.
"Veil, if you likes, you stays der full n~onth
I no turn you out."
"That's as much as to say if I go before my
month is out, you will refund nothing I" she
said, inquiringly.
"No, I can not pays you pack," he said,
hastily, "dat vas against der rhul6s."
"Just so," she replied, "but we will not
quarrel about that. I have got some things
up stairs I want to sell you. I suppose you
will buy them I"
"Ya-as. I pays down and I pays you so
much as nopody else wduld do."
With this they proceeded up stairs to the
little room, where Sanderbund purchased the
few bed-clothes and other articles that-Cecelia
could not take with her. She was too much
engrossed with the idea of leaving the city to
stau~l witll him about the prices, so that he got
the articles at his own terms, congratulating
himself that, if he lost a good tenant, he would
make something on the bargain that closed
their acquaintance. Rolling her scanty ward-
robe up in a small bundle, Cecelia left the
house before the other occupants of thc room,
stupified with their frolic of the night before,
were aroused from their slumbers, and thus,
alone, all her possessions in the little package,
the child started out for a new battle with the
world. No feeling of loneliness oppressed her
heart, for she had always been accustomed to
take cure of herself, ahd follow the dictates of
her own will. She felt a. relief at the idea of
entering upon new scenes, and, having resolved
to try Boston, she tripped gayly along to-
wards the N~ haven depot.
I~IacVain was at the appointed place long
before the promised time, and wated patiently
hour after hour for the little match ~irl. He
could not account for her not comm ~, never
dreaming that she was far on her road to an-
other city.
Mr. Edward Crape was the junior partner of
the house of Barege, Muslin &amp; Co. lie was a
slender mar', of three or four and twenty,
dressed in the latest style and the best ma-
terial. lie had a very light mustache, the
only show for a beard that had yet blessed his
hopes, and repaid his assiduous attention to
that part of the "make up" of a man. This

hair was always parted in the centre, a fact
which did not detract from the disagi-ecable
appearance of a low forehead, and a sbort~
well turned-up nose. About dry goods he
knew very little and cared less.; he was a
nephew of Mr. hlarege, a fact that accon uted
for his interest in the house, where he had
been for many years. lie went from one de-
partment to another, introducing customers to
the salesmen, and making suggestions to them
about the arrangement of their stocks, hints
that were generally thrown away, as the men
knew more about* the business than he did.
lie was not shop walker, but acted as an as-
sistant to that important individual. His es-
pecial delight was to order and direct the boys
of the establishment, who, while they despised
him, dared not disregard his orders. To show
his authority and domineer over those around
him, was consistent with his small nature, and
these youngerr employees were the only ones
who would listen to him without rebelling.
"Mr. Droll, you had better display a coin men
poipt this dusty weather," he said one day,
"the fine ones will get damaged easily."
"Certainly, sir, that is only reasonable,"
said Peter, adding, in an under tone, "Wonder
if the fool thinks he can learn me any thino"'
They had been busy, and Mr. Droll had not
had an idle moment since the morning. He
was a great favorite with the ladies, especially
such of them as liked to dilly-daily over their
purchases, admire this, and compare with that,
talk about the fashions and discuss that ever
ready subject-the weather.
"It is a very pretty lace," said Mrs. Gabble,
an occasional customer of the store, who was~
" well to do in the world" and delighted in
shopping.
"Elegant, Mrs. Gabble, real article, very
fresh and new," replied Peter, while, in an
under tone, he added, "been in the house
seven years, and I'd like to get rid of it-if it
would only hold together until she sewed it
on, that's all I'd care ~
"Which do you think would be most suit~
able, Mr. Droll I" inquired the lady, hol~iug
up two pieces of the lace.
"That in your right hand," he said, with a
smile and a deciding nod of his head, con tinn-
ing, soto voce, "how should I know, she
didn't tell me what she was going to do with
it."
"I believe I'll not mind it to-day," said Mrs.


A TALE OF ANTE BELL LUlL 17IME~S'.

MARDI GRAS;

Gab'Ae, "I want it to match, and I haven't
got a sample with me."
"Very well, Madam, any t~me, we always
have a good assortment," replied Peter, in his
most bland and gentlemanly manner, saying
to himself "I thought SO! She don't want to
buy lace, more'n a calf wants buttermilk."
"Oh! Mr. Droll, I almost forgot to ask if
you had bobbinet for shawls I" and Mrs. Gab-
ble took her seat again.
"Yes, mn'am, we have,, they just come from
the custom-house yesterday."
"Let me see them, Mr. Droll, if you please."
"With pleasure, Mrs. Gabble, and I'm sure
you haven't seen such goods before this sea-
son," and Peter turned to select the box, say-
ing privately, "Eb, gad, what a bore, I pity
poor Gabble."
"Oh, is'nt that flue, such an elegant texture,
just like a cloud," said the lady, admiring
first one piece and then another, "what is the
price of this?"
"That is worth four dollars," replied Peter.
The piece was marked to sell for three." She
won't buy it, and, if she does, she'll jew me
down."
After looking at the entire contents of the
box, and admiring them all, Mrs. Gabble re-
turned to the first piece she had looked at.
"Is four dollars the best you can do for
this?" she asked.
"I declare, I believe she does want to buy,"
said Peter to himself and then continued,
aloud, "Well-let me see-to an old customer
like you-under the circumstances-well, i'll
let you have it for three."
"Three dollars I" she said, with hesitation.
"Yes, ma'am, and it is very cheap," then he
continued, in an undertone, "now, haggle
away, you contemptible old crone."
"Well, I'll see-I'll be over again first of the
week," she said, rising to go, "and I think I
will take it then."
"If you want it," Peter replied, determined
to make a sale if he could, "I wil 1 give it to
you to-day for-two dollars and a half."
"Not to-day, thank you, Mr. Droll, it is very
fine, and reasonable, too, but I'll wait till next
week," and Mrs. Gabble graciously took her
departure.
"Good day, Mrs. Gabble," said Mr. Droll;
"such an infernal set of shoppers I never did
see; talk, twaddle, talk, jewjew, jew, may the
deil fly awa wi 'em."

Three or four customers followed Mrs. Gab-
ble, were waited on by Peter, whpse equanimity
was by this time restored. lie was a kind-
hearted man, firm in his friendships, with
many peculiar ways and odd sayings. A long
experience in the business had given him a
tact of understanding his customers, almost at
first sight, and with those who came to buy he
was quick, fair and just, and with "profession-
al shoppers" he could get along better and
make more sales than any other man in the
house.
Mr. Crape brought forward a lady aria
introduced her to Mr. Samuel Seliwell as a
particularfriend of his~ who wished to get a
lace point, and requested that gentleman to
"put them down low."
"A lace point," said Sam, taking down a
box, and drawing one out with a flourish, "is
the easiest thing in the world to sell, because
the quality tells at once, and they sell them-
selves-at least ours do. These we imported
direct, paid for them on the other side before
t iey left the door of the mauufa~ctory, and
we, therefore, got them cheap. That's the way
we do business. We say to the manufacturer,
"We want these goods and here's the money."
That always brings them at the lowest pos-si-
ble price. 'PiUs point is worth-well, it is
worth five hundred dollars-ab, well, madam,
but look at the lace, see the work, just ex-
amine the pattern. That point was made ex-
pressly for Queen Victoria, but when it was
finished, for certain reasons, she thought it did
not suit, and our buyer, happening idong,
picked it up at three hundred dollarss, for
which price we now offer it."
The point was really a handsome article,
and wi~s marked to sell for one hundred and
twent~-flve dollars, but Sam talked away
about its beauties, its foreign history, and their
good fortune in securing so rare an article,
with an air of sincerity that would have un-
pressed almost any lady with the idea that she
was fortunate in being allowed to see it.
"It is vcr~ handsome," replied Mrs. Miller,
looking at the article with admiration, not un-
mingled with awe, "but I do not want so ex-
pensive an article."
"Here, madam," said Sam, exhibiting an-
other, "is a real pusher lace, very fine, from
one of the most celebrated makers of France-
a rare pattern, the first of the kind ever in-
troduced into this country."

"What is the price sir 7" inquired Mrs. Mil-
icr, looking an if she was almost afraid to ask
the question.
"One hundred dollars, madam, and certainly
the cheapest article in New York at tha~ price.
We had eight hundred of them, all different
patterns, but of the same quality, and this is
the only one we have left."
"It is more than I cr.re about giving,~~ was
the reply.
"Ali) now we come to itV and Sam drew
another out of the box with a triumphant
flourish, "this is the Lama, very stylish, we
have been selling them at sixty-five dollars,
but this one I will put to you at fifty.5
Mrs. Miller examined the article closely, de-
clared it very handsome, but hesitated to say
more.
After this Mr. Seliwell ~hibited four or fi~
others, displaying them in the besV light, and
enpatiating on the beauty and elegance of each
one.

"Now here is one," said Sam, in a confiden-
tial manner, "that Mr. Muslin put aside f.r a
friend of his-it is a vcry neat pattern, line
quality., and will wemir a life-time. You see,
this woyk is very light and airy, that vine is
beautiful, the col~ is elegant and will never
turn-we've sold over chr3e hundred of them
this week."
"how much could you let me have it for 7'
"Well, now-let me see-it is marked-Mr.
Droll, what do we sell ehcse ME points at 7"
The private mark of the house was Cum-
Lerlar~f1, so Peter promptly answered, "Thirty-
fre dollars."
-' Yes, madam, thirty-five dollars," said Sam,
' but, as it is you, I'll call it thirty, and run
the risk of a scolding."
Mrs. Miller took the point at that price, paid
the money, and was politely bowed out by Mr.
Sellwell. In wrapping u~p, the mark had been
shown to Mr. Crape by the foreman of the
packing room, and Mr. Crape, as usual, was
led by curiosity to the cashier's desk, where he
learned the price that Mrs. Miller had paid for
the article.
"Mr. SeIlwell. didn't I tell you Mrs. Miller
was a friend of mine," said he, approaching
that genthiman in a great passion.
"Yes, I believe you did," carelessly replied
Sam, as he folded the points and put them
away.
"The point you sold her was marked twenty-

two dollars, and you charged her thirty, si;!~
said Mr. Crape, his rage increasing.
"Well, if you wanted a point given away,
you should have waited on her yourself," re-
plied Sam, returning a box to its place on the
shelves.
"I'll have you know, sir, that I won't have
such things in this house."
"Oh, come now, don't kick up such a riffle
about nothing," said Sam, stopping in his work
to address Mr. Crape.
"If you speak to me in that way," was the.
rep!y, "I'll discharge you."
"When 7" coolly asked Sam.
"Now, right away, sir," said Mr. Crape.
"Well, thia ain't the only dry goods store in
New York," said Sam, taking down his hat,
"and this will suit me as well as any day."
"Go to the office, sir, and have your account
settled," said Mr. Crape indignantly.
"Well, you come along," said Sam, and the
two walked into the office, whore Sam, request-
ed to have his account made up. Mr. Barege,
was in his great easy office chair, and looked
up with surprise, when he heard one of the
best salesmen in the house request a settle-
ment. He inquired the cause of the disturb-
ance, and Mr. Seliwell related what had hap-
pened, with an occasional interruption from
Mr. Crape.
"I'm surprised, Mr. Sellwell," said Mr. Bar-
ege, "that you should charge such an outrage-
ous price."
"The goods were marked low," replied Sam,
"and well able to stand the price."
"Well, I've no objection," said Mr. Barege,
in a half reprovii~g tone, "that you should ask
a fairprofit, but fourteen~ dollars out of thirty!
Don't ~lo it again, Mr. SelIwell."
"All right, sir."
"By the way," said Mr. Barege, "you were
~bsent three days last week, Mr. Sellwdll."
"Yes, sir," replied Sam, with a solemn look,
'my aunt in Jersey City was sick, and there
being no one but servants there, I staid to
Look after the old lady."
"Ah! how came yo~ti on Broadway, Wednes-
lay evening 7"
"Wednesday? oh! yes," said' Sam, suddenly
~emcmbering, "I came over to get some mcdi-
~ine. The article ordered by the doctor could

not be found in Jersey."
"It must have been a new medicine," replied
Mr. Barege, "since you had to go to a lager


24                      MARDI URA~;                                              A TALE 01" ANTE BELL LUll TIiJIES.

beer saloon for it! That will do, you can go to
your stock, Mr. Seliwell, and I trust your aunt
will not be sick again soon
"Thank you, sir, I hope not," said Sam, very
gravely.
Mr. Crape, defeated in his attack on Seliwell,
came out in the store and meeting Philip, who
had been watching with interest all these dif-
ferent scenes, thought to take revenge on the
boy by ordering him to clean the windows.
"That's not my work," said Philip
"Oh! it is'nt, well I'll see," replied the irri-
tated gentleman. Fortunately for Philip, Mr.
Muslin, called him at this time and sent him
off on an errand down town.
Mr. Droll had been troubled with a cough
for more than a year, which at times was so
severe as to seriously frighten his friends. On
this day he had suffered from it more than
usual, and Seliwell, while he related to him
the scene in the office felt worried at the signs
of consumption that wore plainly traceable in
his old friend.
"Confound this cough," said Petet', "I believe
i've got the consumption."
"Oh! nonsense, Pete," replies Sam, conceal-
ing his real feeling~, "you have caught cold,
rake a good hot apple toddy when you go to
bed to-night and you will be better to-mor-
The next day was Sunday, and in the after-
noon, as he had promised, Philip started out to
pay a visit to Mary. lie took with him three
or four of the best books he had, which he in-
tended to loan to his young friend to read.
The day w svery pleasant, calm and still, the
very air s~en3ing to know that the day was
boly, and t~ hang with a mellowed brightness
over the ci y of churches; a few fleecy clouds
were movi g slowly through tl~e heavens,
while the un gave a cheering brightness to
all around, without an oppressive or glaring
heat. Phi ip was so pleased with the serene
and happy scenes about him, that without no-
tiziing his progress he passed the street he
should ha e turned into, and did not discover
his mistake until he arrived at Foi~t Green.
Turning to retrace his steps, he was hailed by
a familiar voice and was then joined by Mr.
Droll, who inquired where he was going.
Philip urged his friend to join him in paying
a visit to Mrs. Collins' house, and dwelt so ad-
miringly on Mary's beauty and goodness, that
Mr. Droll consented.

Mary answered their 'knock at the door and
received them with a childish ease and grace
that pleased Mr. Droll very much, and when
Mrs. Collins welcomed them in' her kind and
gentle way, he felt himself quite at home.
Philip and Mary were soon engaged with the
freedom of children, looking over the books he
had brought, examining the modest ornaments
of the room, and discussing the different sub-
jects that occurred to their minds. Mr. Droll
and Mrs. Collins, were equally interested in
the conversation that passed between them-
selves. He was a native of Aberdeenshire,
Scotland, and she was from the Glens of An-
trim, in the ever green Isle, and a comparison
of the two countries, with 'a relation of the
many incidents of childhood that still dwelt
bright in their memories, made the time pass
pleasantly away, and caused them before the
evening was over to feel a friendship for each
other that it might have taken years to create,
under different circumstances. The visit was
s~ agreeable, in fact, that Mr. Droll was
pleased with the invitation given to call again.
his Sunday walks thereafter usually included,
a visit to Mrs. Collinsand frequently during the
week he would stop in for a few moments. At
these times he took great pleasure in assisting
Mary with l~er studies, and often brought her
books that he thought would be useful or en-
tertaining. He was fond of music, and as an
amateur, was considered an excellent per-
former on the piano, violin or flute, the latter
of which he sometimess brought with 'him, and
varied their amusements with music. Philip
usually acco i~panied Mr. Droll in his visits to
Mrs. Collins, or was there before him. He now
took more interest in reading and iA studying
with Marytlian he had ever done at schooland
as Mr. Droll always included him in his in-
structions, often jokingly said that he was
now attending college and that when he grad-.
uated he expected to get a Droll diploma.
CIJAPTETI yirr.
Although it is a common saying that "the
age of miracle~ has past," and we no longer~
find the kings and rulers of Christian coun-
tries, or their statesmen and lawgivers, wise
judges and men versed in science and lit~ra-
tine, consulting sooth-sayers and astrologist~,
asking of them the unveiling of the future, and

MARDI GRAS;

yielding to their predietitins implicit belief
and to their mandates a blind obedience, yet
we find the descendants or Successors of thi.
mysterious men of science who flourished in
the middle ages, still practicing the arts and
wiles of the profession. Whether it is that
imposters and illiterate persons have degraded
the once noble art, or that the world has be-
come so practical as to regard all pursuits as
mere trades and matters of business, or that
the superior intelligeuce of the age has dis-
covered it to be the veriest humbug, which
ought to be exploded, certain it is that the
professors who pursue it are no longer looked
upon with that respect and superstitious awe
that characterized their lives in "the good old
days." Yet there are many of them who do a
very lively business, and amass immense for-
tunes-the test in these latter days of success
and deserving character. They have their fol-
lowers, who pay profound reverence to their
powers, their' visitors from curiosity, and
through the credulity, hopes, fears and ridi-
cule of the world, hold their authority and
reap their harvest.
Madame Clementine Pavalio,, was one of the
most celebrated fortune tellers, and astrolo-
gists of the city. She understood her calling
to a nicety, and while she advertised extensive-
ly, her cards and circulars were so well word-
ed, and her appeals so judiciously made, that
even those who ridiculed the idea of belief in
such a science, were drawn through curiosity
to visit her rooms. She claimed to treat her
subject scientifically, and with new and im-
proved apparatus to assist her, she read the
past, present and future, assisted in consum-
mating matrimonial engagements, gave a like-
ness and told the disposition of the future
husband or wife of the applicant. She des-
cribed the friends and pointedout the enemies
of her visitors, and warned them of the dan-
~ers hanging over the future. She oft~n gave
information that led to the arrest of thieves,
and defaulters, and the recovery of articles
stolen; many of her exploits in this line bad
been important in their results, and these with
the facility and accuracy with which she had
read the past lives of some of her most im-
portant clients had gained for her a wide rep-
utation and left a deep inipression on 4he
minds of a few of the most incredulous. If
they had been allowed a peep behind the scenes,
as we shall presently take, their wonder would
have been much abated.

tier residence was a brown stone front house
of imposing appearance, near Broadway, on an
up-town street, and the silver knob to the door-
bell, was encircled b~- a handsome band of the
same metal, bearing in plain, but not over-
grown letters, the name, Madame Clementine
Pavalio. On one side of the spacious hail, b~
which the house was entered, there hung a
ina~nificent oil painting of Puck, starting oii
a mission to' girdle the earth, while opposite
* there stood a marble statue representing for-
tune in the, act of emptying her horn of plenty.
The consultation room, which looked out upon
the street, was large, with high ceilingsand the
high windows that reached nearly from floor
to ceiling were shaded by elegant lace and da-
mask curtains. The furniture was of elaborate
pattern, rosewood and satin, of the finest
quality and newest styles. On the mantle-
piece, which was loaded down with costly or-
naments, there was an upright card ease of
motherof pearl, supported by a pedestal of pure
g~d, and in this the cards of fortune were
placed, after being shuffled for dealing. On an
elegant marble top center table there stood a
miniature globe, on which all the countries of
the earth were delineated with accuracy and
in the best style of art. A large pier glass
was placed between the windows, opposite to
which was the horoscope of destiny, so con-
trived that while the visitor unsuspectingly
looked into it, the astrologist quickly took
their photograph, whlch could be afterwards
used, either to gather more particulars about
the principal, or to send to some distant cor-
respondent, as the likeness of a future partner
in life,
On one of the sofas in this room a man was
cisurely reclining, while n&amp;ar him in an arm
chair the renowned fortune-teller was sitting.
lie had evidently just come in, and stretched
himself wearily out, while she in a compass
sionating tone said,
"You seem weary, my dear."
"I am weary, and what's more, I am worried
and disgusted with this interminable search.
It is first one track and then another, and en-
~irely different one, all leading to-nothing."
"Well, my dear, you get paid all the same,
don't you I"
"Yes, oh, yes! but that is not nil a m~in
works for. I get paid liberally, but then' I
could make just as much working up the pri-
vate cases that would come to me, if I was free
to take them, and then there would be variety,
4


/
MARDi
~K2o
and the satisfaction of success. Now here I've
had this one case since the year after we were
married, and I am no nearer success than when
I first took it."
"It is strange," replied his wife, who wore
her high sounding foreign name only for busi-
ness purposes, but w~s Mrs. Williams in pri-
vate, "that Mr. MacVain does not tire of this
fruitless search."
"Not he 1" exclaimed the detective, "I never
saw such a man! Disappointment only sharp-
ens iiis desire for success, and drives him into
new channels and on to new plans.~~
'lYhy is MacVain so anxious about the re-
covt~ry of this child; was she a relative of
his?"
"ho-I thix~k not. There's some terrible
n:y~tery about it and it is fast wearing him to
the grave. I 1~hiuk from the way he talks and
th&amp;weight it is on his mind that he either stole
the child or had it done 7"
"He did? What could induce him to do
that 7"
"I ~dou't know, perhaps money-may be it
was done to conceal the child's birth, though
if it had been that she would have been stolen
before she was two years old. He~s the deep-
est man I ever got hold of; you can't find out
much that he don't want you to know, and if
you do think you've struck a trail, you never
know whether you are right or not."
"If h~ would come here, I might l~ad him
by prophesy 1o do as you wish."
"Yes, but he would not come here. He
would h~ot at the idea of consulting a fortune-
teller, and I would not hazard my reputation
with him by such a proposition."
"No, it would not do for you to do that-]
only wish he would come of his own accord
As it is, why don't you throw up the engage
ment 7'?
"I can't do that very well. I've hinted thai
way several times, but MacVain is never wil
hug to listen to such a thing, and he has beer
so liberal with nie, that I could not honorable
drop the case against his will. This matcl
girl he thinks is the child he islookingfor, an.:
that belief has raised his hopes higher thai
ever before.".
"And you cannot find her 7"
"Find her! You might as well look for:
grain of chalk in a barrel of flour, as to be]
for one particular vagrant amongst the them
ands that infest every alley, lane, and tene

GRA~9;
went of the city. Besides, I never saw her,
and MacVain only saw her once, and way have
given me a very poor description of her."
"Yet it is strange you can find no trace of
her."
"It is, indeed, and baffles inc entirely. I wish
MacVain would drop the case. I would wil-
lingly give up the chance of earning the hand-
some reward that is promised on the successful
conclusion of our search."
The door bell was rung at this moment
and to avoid the visitor, if it should be some
one wishing to consult the Madame, Mr. \Yil-
hams retired into an adjoining room, and the
servant announced that a gentleman wished
to s~e the Madame. She was ordered to admit
him, and a moment afterwards ushered in Mr.
MacVain, which' astonished the fortune-teller,
the more, because he had been the subject of
her late conversation with her husband.
Recovering from her surprise, she invited
him to be seated, and awaited the disclosure
of his business, in dignified si~euce. MacVain
east a searching look around ~he room, noti-
cing the magnificent furniture and elegant or-
nanients with indifference, bu when his eyes
fell on the instruments of her science, a sneer
culled his lips as he said:
"I suppose you think I have ome to consult
you about the future, to ask y u if my star of
destiny shines brightly and ge you to unfold
the past, present and future, t my wondering
eyes."
"It is neither just or wise," she replied~
heartily, "to mock at that which we do not
understand and have never tested."
"Do not think.that you can impose on
'he replied, his eyes flashing with resentment
at her rebuke. "You could tell me nothing of
- the past that would be pleasant to hear, the
present 's open before me, and the future is
hung with a veil as impenetrable to you as to
- myself-no, I want none of your eight seeing
or witchcraft."
"I know you too well," she replied, careless-
ly, turning the miniature globe on its axis, "to
I suppose that you come with any belief in my
powers-Percy MacVain is a cynic in human
affairs, a neglected, almost an apostate in re-
ligion, and believes i~i nothing firmly-except
~ his own infallibility~"
"MacVain started with surprise when he
heard his own name thus announced, and the
flush of anger deepened on his face as she pro-
nounced her estimate of his character.

I

A TALE OP ANTE BELL LTi1! TINES.

"You were born rich and proud," she contia
ned, apparently indifferent to his resentment
"wayward,, self-willed and unrestrained, you
grew up, with a mind stored with the wealth
of science, literature and the flue arts, a posi
tion in the highest social circles of the ~world,
and a fortune almost unlimited; you have used
your advantages for your own gratification
and pleasure, never caring whose heart was
torn or life blighted, so that your ends were
gained.~
"'Tis false," he exclaimed, stamping h~ feet
angrily. "I did not come here to be insulted
wit~h your Impertinent surmises about my
character."
I was surprised at the amJunt of knowl-
cdg she displayed and her words were the
mor galling as they were so nearly true.
" told you,~~ he continued, endeavoring to
eon ol his feelings, "when I came iii that I
wa ed no history of the past, no comments on
the resent and no guesses at the future. I
cam to ask your assistance in an entirely dif-
fere t-"
"Yes, I know," she said interrupting him,
"you wish me to help you in finding alittlegiri
who was stolen from her parents in New Or-
leans, and who it is your duty to see returned
to her home."
MacVain could not conceal his surprise
when Madame Pavalie gave this further proof
of her knowledge of his affairs, and although a
man of strong mind, he was for the moment
shaken in his disbelief of her science, lie
therefore quietly~answered:
"Well...-and if I did I"
"I cannot assist 'you now," she replied, "the
time has not come yet."
"Oh! you cannot," he said, the old sneer re-
turning to hi~ lips, "I thought you could rea4
the future like an open book."
"The dispositions and intellects of men dif.
for," she replied, again slowly turning the lit-
tle globe and measuring her words as she
spQke, "so it is with the scroll on which is
written their future destiny; some lie open be-
fore the true astrologist as plaiu as a hook.
others are obscured~ by occasional clouds,
while a few are shrouded in an impenetrable
veil that not the most acute science can lift.
Those who pretend that the destiny of all men
can be read by them, err, either through inten-
tion or ignorance, yet there are very few of
this latter class."

27

-   "With the fine points of your science I have
nothing to do," replied MacVain, "I want your
assistance to find this lost child."
"it would be useless for me to try now,"
she replied, "the lines of your destiny and of
hers lie far apart and diverging. You have
seen a girl of the same name, a match girl; she
is not the child you want to find. No, you
need not shake your head. I am right, and if
you find this watch girl you will then know
that I am."
"Well, you give no encouragement," he said,
"and would seem to aim at dissuading me
from a farther search."
"Your further search will prove ~
she replied. "I may tell you more at another
time, but just now your chart of destiny is not
very plain."
"You know that I do not believe in your
reve~atiohs of the future."
"That I cannot help, my reading of the past
you know to be true, time will jirovo my cor-
rectness ahout the future."
"'And you say that I will never find t~he
child?"
She did not reply for some minu~cs, but sat
intently studying~the little globe as it revolved,
then going to the mantelpiece she took down
the card case, and as ~lie pack it contained was
slightly soiled, she took from the drawer ofata-
ble a fresh one. These cards were made in the
highest style of art, the edges were gilded and
the backs ornamented with fine steel engrav
ings of mythological subjects. After shuffling
them well, she placed them in the case beside
the globe on the table and again took her seat
opposite to MacVain. As the globe slowly re-
volved she drew the cards from the case, and
laying them out on the table, read to him in a
studied manner:
"The woman with whom you plated this
child." she said, "died without leaving you
any clue as to what had been done with her.
The child is ~vel1 and has grown very rapidly.
She does not now live in this city. Yen have
met her and spoken to her." MacVain started
an~ then leaned eagerly forward, while she
continued, "you will meet her again and often,
hut you will not know her. Your inquiries
will be without success, and you will meet her
where you least expect it."
"I will speak to her and associate with
her 7" he inquired.


28                   MARDI GRAS;

"You kave spoken \to her," she replied, and
.mfter a pause added, "and will speak to her,
but will not know who she is. There-see
tb~se cards are all black and mixed suits; I am
not therefore able now to tell more with cer-
tainty."
"You think then," he asked, "that I will
never find her ~"
"That you will see and speak to her again,
is certain," she replied, but I think yon will
never know her. Ah! the queen of hearts and
jack of diamonds, that is blood! Beware!
there is a cloud here, and if you continue, it
will lead tq great trouble-yes, to bloodshed."
"Madame, if I believed what you have said,"
he replied, "I should be the most miserable of
men. But I a n confident of success I must
be successful, or until I sin so, I can never be
happy."
"If you find er at all," she answered, "it
will be many y ars hence, but I do nut think
you will find er, and, therefore, advise you
to give lip the ifort."
"Not I! by t me light of my soul, I will pur-
sue the search s long as life lasts, summer and
winter, warm a d cold, through all Christen-
doin, I will leo myself and have my agents
busy until suce ss is gained, or death relieves
inc from the task."
His eyesfiashed as he spoke, his lips con-
tracted and a look of unalterable firmness set-
tled on his face.
"Perhaps you will assist me," he said, as he
arose to go, "if so, I will pay you well."
"No, no, no, I can not," she replied, drawing
back, "there is blood between you and her,
and I doubt if ever you will succeed. The
danger that awaits you may engulf those as-
sociated kvith you, and, therefore, I decline the
offer, no matter what the rew~ird."
"Very good, as you please," he replied,
smiling at her earnestness, and then he laid
on the table a sum of money that, he thought,
would be sufficient to pay for the interview.
"Good bye, Madame, I may call and see you
again."
"I hope you will," she replied, as she re-
turned his bow, and a servant conducted him
out.
CHAPTER XX.
The ties of home are strong and almost uni-
versal. The heart turns from the cares of the

world, the rude jostling of the busy crowds,
the continual jingle of money and the pursuit
of the ever needful dollar, from the over tasked
brain, the weary limbs,~ and the dull, drowsy
plodding of the day-from all such over-hang-
ing clouds the heart turns a way to seek bright
visions of joy, amidst the groves and walks,
the vine-hung cottage, or, it may be, the ever-
recurring, hot and cheerless side-walks, and
piles of brick and mortar that mak6 up a city,
where once, in a happier time, home was
known. The feeling is confined to no class or
nation; rich and poor alikeare haunted by it,.
for it seems to be innate in the human breast.
As "distance lends en6hantment to the ~
when looking upon the works of nature, the
majestic hills, the spreading valleys, and the
limpid, running water, so time softens the
memory of the past, and there are few passages
in life, however hard and toilsome, which,
viewed aftenthe lapse of years, have no pleas-
ant visions intermingled with their trials, that
make the heart exclaim, "Ah, those were the
g od old days!" Thusthe mantle of oblivion
is cast around the sorrows of life, obliterating
th ir pain, or mellowing them down, so that
th joys that came with them stand above and
ov rehadowing theinfi with a tranquil, holy
li ht, that causes us to look back with mingled
pan and pleasure. A few years hence, and to-
da will be counted in "the good old time,"
an if we could but realize this fact, so as to
se son our lives with contentment, how much
greater would be the pleasures of this life,
how much lighter its burdens.
When Cecelia first arrived in Boston, she
was delighted with all she saw. The new
scenes, strange faces, manners and customs,
made a variety that, for the time, engaged her
whole attention. She soon became acquainted
*ith other children of her own class, and with
some of these took up her abode. In this way
she passed the next few mouths, making ex
cursions to Cambridge, Roxbrury, Maiden and
the neighborhood, always peddling some sort
of wares with very great success. When the
summer had passed away and the autumn was
deepening into winter, this roaming about be-
came less agreeable, often trying and painful,
and she began to talk of New York as home,
and of returning to it. With her it needed but
the resolntion; no ties bound her, no dear
friends by love and kindness, caused a sigh of
regret at parting.

28

29

A TALE OP AXTh BEJ1L LUll [LIME1S.

'I'rue, she had no brilliant memories connect- "I don't think ii will," said Nelly, ~/' fox
ed with her life in th6 great ~ity. For her no they've had one or two fights already."
hearth ston~ had ever been warm and bright, "Well, we'll give 'em one good night any
or hallowed by the love of a mother, the how," said Cecelia, "as I've just got back, it's
watchful care of a father, or the merry joys of no more'n fair I should stand treat, so you tell
brothers and sisters. To all this she was a them and the girls to come up here this even-
stranger, yet even her dark life had its rays ing, and we'll have a little supper. Te~m
of light a* d comparative pleasures. The dark o'clock is early enough, as I want to take a
little roo rh atSanderbnnd's possessed a charm walk through Broadway by gas light, just for
tbr her thoughts, which were ever reverting to old times."
it, and the boon companions which she had With this agreement the girls separated,
met thcie she no~v remembered with a feeling Cecelia going to the little restaurant at the
akin to love. 11cr present life was too quiet, corner to order the articles she wanted for the
and she longed once more for the old haunts, evening'ss entertainment.
the bustle and throng, the never ending tide of The night was bitter cold, the wind sung
strangers and the boisterous revelries that bad drearily around the corners, and swej)t with
combined to make up what there was ofpleasure full fury through Broadway. The clouds hung
in herpast~existen~e. Like the majority of those heavily in the sky, portending a fearful storni,
raised in d ur grcat city, she had come to thimik warning the citizens to seek shelter in their
that "other places may be very good in their homes. Percy MacVain, who had remained in
way, but-there is only one N~iw ~or1c." the city much over his usual time, still cherish-
The inmates of Simuderbund's house were ing the hope of finding the girl Cecelia, and
surprised, one morning in early December, by then, by further investigation, settle the quas-
the return of Cecelia, which, to them, was as tion of her identity with the lost child, was to
sudden and unexpected us had been her de- leave for his nome on the morrow, and had re-
parture. She ~vas placed in the same room and solved to spend that night In visiting the ten-
with the same Companions, excepting the girl ement houses arr4 low resorts and inqnii'o fbi
Betsy, ~vho had been moved to another room. the object of his search. He hail visited seve-
"Where have you been all this time I" asked ml of the ferries, and spe~mt hours in watching
Nelly, a~ th6y sat together, partaking of the the tide of people who ~vere hurrying to their
breakfast which Ceeclia had sent out for. homes across the river. It 'vas nearly nine
"Oh! all round! I went to                o'clock when, after visiting several np4own
ton, Salem and saw Bunker Hill and all them plae~, where he thought he might meet with
things, I had a nice time, I tell you."    success, he came into Broadway and walked to-
"You bin' to stay here now l" inquired wards the Battery. Cold, dark and cheerless
Nelly.                                     as the night was, there were crowds of poor
"Yes, I in, for, after all,  ain't no    unfortunates passing along the street, eagerly
their~      place scanning the face of every man they met,
like New  ork."                            hoping to receive a small pittance, that would
"That's so," replied Nelly, "I've often heard relieve them from distress, for this one night,
them as h~ d gone all over say the same thing." at least. Sonic were clad in nay colored l)op-
"So B~t y has*left you I" asked Cecelia. lins and merinoes, with flashy ribbons oil their
"Yes, b t she lives down stairs." hats, and streaniing out behind, their shoul-
"Why d d she leave I" ders covered with shawls of every celor and
~'" Oh, sh 'a hitched. You 'member Jake, yes, texture. Others wore soiled and time-worn
of course on do; well, him and her made a silks1 cut in last year's fashion, and carried
match, and she's livin with him." fans in their hands, as if in mockery of the
"What a jolly go!" said Cecelia, "ain't they season. Some were yet in summer costumes,
well matched, though? lie's a sleepy-headed light bareges, ehene poplins and debates.
booby, and she's a lazy good for nothino-" Others appeared in calico dresses, and cowed
"And they can both drink as l6ng as any- shivering before the cold blast as if the thin
body else will pay for it," said Nelly.    calico was all that protected them  from the
"Oh, it's a nice match, but it won't last rude winds. Some were old and careless,
long," replied Cecelia.         *          making their appeals for aid with a brazen ef-


30                                MA.RD
frontery that knew no shame, others, advanced
in years, were yet mare modest in their de-
meaner. There were young girls, tender in
years and delicately formed, who seemed to be
gliding, more swiftly than the others, down
that dark and terrible road of ruin, below
shame, lost to honor, eyond hope, far, far be-
yond the pale of la~ and affection. One of
these he noticed particularly, a. little childl,
with a thin, pale face, where .hunger and
neglect had left; deep traces, the dark eyes
shining out from the ashen paleness that sur-
rounded them, with a fierce, unnatural light,
her thin calico dress driven close to her form
'by the chilling wind that swept down the
street, and as she went by, a ,small voice
within his breast seemed to say,| " Is it here,
Percy MacVain, that you would look for the
victim of your malice Is the delicate child,
torn by you from the embrace of a loving
mother, one of these Have you taken her
from a home where every influence would tend
to virtue, honor and refinement, that she
might fall into this road of misery, want and
crime But for you she would have been sur-
roundediby luxury, protected by kind and af-
fectionate parents, and have become the; pride
and1 joy of her home-seeis she now one of this
throng f. Think, oh man, of thg angel you
have torn from the influence of rel igion, from
the love and reverence of God, .and placed on
the high road to -degradation and shame !" -
As these thoughts coursed through his brain,
ever returning when he strove to shake them
off, one of the women stopped him, and asaed
for charity in God's name.. Pulling forth a
dollar, he gave it to her. Thanking him, she
went on, and he, prompted by curiosity, fol-
lowed. Going up Broadway, before reaching
Canal street, she turned to the left, and de-
scended into the under-ground story of the
corner house.
The room he entered" was entirely under-
ground, the story above was occupied as a no-
tion store, this was a bar room, fitted up in
handsome style. Passing through this, Mac-
Vain found himself in a long room, resembling
a cave, which was immediately under the side..
walk of Broeadway. It was occupied as a
shooting gallery, and as he stood there, sur-'
veying the rough appearance of the place, a
young man, holding up a pistol, good natured-
ly asked him if he would take a shot. This
was Mr. Samuel Sellwell, who, having finished

I GRAS;

his day's work, was out for a little recreation.
MacVain surveyed the stranger for a moment
with a distrustful look, but the good natured
face of Sam overcame his repugnance to recog-
nizing such chance companions.
" I seldom shoot at such a mark," he replied,
pointing to the figure on the iron screen, "but
your challenge comes with so much confidence
that I will try it."
" Oh, I don't pretend to be an extra shot,"
replied Sam, "but I like the amusement of the
thing."
"Very well," said MacVain, pointing to the
keeper, a lame man, who went about with a
long step and a short one, "this gentleman
shall call for us, and we will fire in turns at
the word.?'                          ,
" At the word!" exclaimed Sam, " I never
fired that way in my life."   .-
"It is the only way to have any amusement,"
said MacVain, " and I never shoot in any
other way,-but, as you say you prefer a steady
aim, you can fire as you like, and I will fire at
the call." .
Each one had three shots, and, as it was
agreed that Sam should try first, he took his
place, and, after a short aim, fired. One of his
shots struck the pivot, ringing the bell, and
the other two were less than a quarter of an
inch from  it. MacVain fired at 'the word,-
-without care or hesitation, two of his shots
ringing the bell and the other touched the
spring, but too lightly to stir the bell.
" Well done, well done," cried Sam, " let's
try it over."
" That's not good shooting," said MacVair,
" at least down our way we would think it
poor-only one shot was fairly in the centre."
"I don't think you can beat it," replied Sam.
" Oh, yes I can," said MacVain, smiling,
" that would never do in pigeon and squirrel
hunting."
" If you are dry,"~ said Sam, confidently, "we
will take something on it that you don't beat
it this time."
" I am no~ much in the humor for drinking,
replied MacVain, who yet felt as if he us
vindicate his skill with the weapon, " but I
will take your challenge."
Sam took his place, aimed with extra care,
an4l rang the bell with his first two shots, but
success and eagerness to do well made him aim
a little unsteady, and the third shot missed the
centre by the smallest fraction of distance.'

I

"That was very well done, for a steady aim,'"
said MacVain, who now took his position, and
as tihe word was given,rfired with a quick butl
::areful aim. His three shots rang the bell,
two of them striking fair in the center.
" By Jove, that is good shooting!" exclaimed

si

A TALE 01F ANTE B3ELLUM1 TINES.

N

31

Sam'.
"First rate! splendid !" exclaimed the keep-
er, with an admiring look at MacVain-.
" What will you drink, sir I" asked Sam-.
"Exduse me," replied MacVain, "I really
don't feel like taking anything."
"Oh, that will never do," said Sam, "you
must take something. Come -now, it's a cold
night, take a hot Tom and Jerry; of all the
places in New York, this is the -best for Tom
and Jervy."
"Very well," said MacVain, yielding reluct-
antly to Sanm's importunity.
They rang the bell and gave the order to the
servant when he came, Sam in his good nature
including the keeper in the order. The foam-.
ing beverage, smoking hot, was compounded
just right, and they all pronounced it the best
they had ever tasted.
After finishing his glass, MacVain said 1 ea
must go, and Sam replied that he had stayed
long enough himself and would go a short dis-
tance with him. As MacVain return d to the
bar room, he looked about him again, wonder
ing where the woman had gone that he was
following when he entered the place. -
" You are a stranger here P' said Sam, in-
quiringly.
" I am not a citizen of New York," replied
MacVain, " but I have spent a great deal of
time here."   |-
" Come this way," said Sam, taking his arm
and drawing himn towards the side street, "Il
show you a sight, the like of which you never
saw before."
They passed through the door into a long,
narrow passage or hall, under the sidewalk of
the side street. Along this was ranged a
dozen or more stalls or small apartments,
separated by a thin board partition, and all
having a door opening into the hall. In each
one of these there was a' long, rough table,
with benches running a round it for seats.
When MacVain entered this place he started
back with horror at the sight that met his
eyes. The hall was crowded with women like
those he had seen on Broadway, who had taken
refuge here from the cold of the street. Some

were laughing andL relating their experiences
of the night with loud words and rude jests,
others were singing the rough street songs of
the day, others were'in the stalls, indulging in
such drinks and refreshments as their scahty
means would afford, while many were loung-
ing around, waiting for the appearance of some
one from whom they could beg the means to
pay for something to satisfy their hunger or
thirst.
'When the men entered a crowil gathered
around them, asking for. some refreshments.
All sorts of drinks'and an endless variety of
dishes were suggested by* these, each one
urging her clai heaconsideran ngrd Mac-
witnessed.
"Take care, get out of the way," said a
young girl, pushing the others aside and pre-
senting herself before him, " this is a friend of
nine, and I know he'll stand treat for the
crowd, if you will only keep quiet."
.M God ! Cecelia, you here !" exclaimed
MacVain.
" Yes, it's me," replied the girl, much sur-
"prised that he should remember her, then half
fearing that he would demand a return of the
money she had cheated him out of,. she re-
gretted having spoken. t6 him. If she had
known how little he valued money, or yet, if
an idea of why he felt so strong an interest in
her had crossed her mind, she would have had
no such feeling. Remembering how his sombre
manner had impressed the girl before, and be-
lieving that it was the cause of her not return-
ing to him the following day, hie resolved not
to awaken her suspicion by questioning her
too closely, or frighten her away by a reproof
for being in such company. Assuming a care-
less freedom he was far from feeling, he ordered
one of the waiters to take the orders of the
crowd, and requested Sellwell to join them.
That gentleman was astonished at this change
in his companion, with whose reserved and
dignified manner he had been deeply impress-
ed. Nothing in the city was new to him, how-
ever, and-he accepted the invitation with a
cordial approbation.
" How have you been 1" asked MacVain, ad-
dressing Cecelia.
"I've been bully, never was sick in my life,"
repied the glirl,
"ot palive in Brooklyn 1" he said after a


38

MAL4DI

"No, I don't," she replied, an then the feel-
ing of distrust returning, she dded, "I live
in Williamsburg."
!' Oh I you do I" said MacVain, thinking that
he had gained one point, "what part of Wil-
liamsburg I"
"Two squares from the ing's County
Hotel," sbe replied.
MacVain did not want to qu stion her too
closely, lest he should anger or frighten her,
and, therefore, after a short time he withdr-ew,
followed by Sellwell.
"That's some of New York under ground,"
said Seliwell, as they stood on the corner of the
street.
"A disorderly crowd," r~iplied MacVain, "and
much to be pitied."
"That's so," rejylied Sam, glancing at his
watch. "A quarter to ten, well, I'll bid you
good night, sir."
"Good night," rejylied MacVain, and they
~mparated.

CIIAPTElI X.
Soon after MacVain left the saloon, Cecelia
remembered her engagement with her friends
at Sanderbund's and- took her departure also.
The room was in the same order, or disorder,
as when she occupied it before. The few ar-
tides that she bad disposed of so Sanderbund
bad been rented to the other occupants of the
room.. The old table was well covered with
dishes for th~ evening's entertainment, oysters
in several.st~les, beefsteak, a chicken salad,

with an abundance of bread, claret wine and brealt aown br mom.
draught ale, being the principal attractions'  "Jake, how much does it cost to go to New.
to which was added, later in the evening, a Orleans I" asked Cecelia, when the noise sub-
'large bowl of smoking hot whiskey punch. sided a little.
The company consisted of Cecelia's old friends, "Depends on how you go," replied Jake. "It
~'elly and Sally, who were still inmates of the you manage right, you can sponge your way
room, and Betsy and Jake, who cuinae up from nearly all through, and if you pay it will
their room on the next fioor~ When all were cost-well, ~may be eight4r or a hundred dol-
seated at the table, Cecelia invited them fo lars."
make merry and help themselves, a request "What do you know about it~?" said Betsy,
which each one proceeded to obey without fur- who had been taking liberally of the whiskey
ther ceremony.                      -    'punch
"I'm glad to see you back, Ceely," sai~Jalte,  "I know, 'cos Dick told me," sa d Jake, "and
with his mouth full.                     yo~b~ttOr bold your jaw, you ha ."
"You're eatin' as if you were," said Betsy,  "Oh! yes," replied Betsy, be~ een a cry and
contemptuously.                          a storm of'rsge, "get upaquarr 1 now, you're
always picking  me,           pdiug fault.
Come, Betsy," replied Cecelia, "let him "Hush up now~," said Jake, "y u're 4runk-
eat, that's what I want him to do and you too." as usual-"

About one o'clock in the morning, the wind
lulled a little, although still very high and the
air seemed to grow more intensely cold, every
thing was freezing hard and fast. The police-
men drew their great coats close about them
and bugged close to the corner and friendly
door-ways. Such citizens as were yet on~ the
streets hurried on their way, bending over as
they went, thus to catch less of the wind, and
drawingg their bodies close together, so it
~eemed, to avoid the piercing cold, while their
breath turned to ice, covering their comfor-
Less, mufflers and collars as they went quickly
~n. Save by these few passers, the streets
were quiet, and for once the great city seemed
:o be u~sleep.
Suddenly there came a gleam of light against,

A hILE OF ANTE
GRAS;
"Am I? Am I?" ~iried Betsy, "drunk as usu-
"What are you going to d~o this winter I"  al hey? Who earns the money-say how much
Nelly inquired, as she emptied her glass.  have you made these six weeks? who paid old
"I don't know yet," replied Cecelin, "hut I  Sanderbund the rent last month, yes and this
s'pose PH sell something and gouge what I  one too i"
can."                                        "Are you going to stop ?" criedJake, seizing~
"If I had money," said Jake, after a deep  a chair.
drink of the ale, "Pd go ~                   "No, I ain't," replied the girl.
" What would you do South I" inquired      "Won't you ?" sa'd he, raising the chair
Betsy.                                     over his head, when Cecelia stepped in he-
"Do? I'd beg, or sing, or meddle something,"  twoen theni.
he replied.                                  "Not here Jako," she said firmly.
"i've heard say," said Sally, thal folks whot  "Not hero," he repeated, surprised at the in-
went down to Mobile, Charleston or New Or-  terruption.
leans did mighty well.                      "No, and if I was Betsy, nowhere else."
"That's so !" exelaimid Jake, "why, I know  "What would you do I" he inquired with a
a feller that went South last winter and. come  sneer.
back with over five hundred dollarsQ'       "I'd break your head or stab you; you never
This was a new idea to Cecelia. She had  would strike another woman, that's certain !"
tried Boston and the neighborhood, but a place  replied Cecelia, her eyes flashing with anger.
where five hundred dollars could be made in a  "Well, you and I ain't got no quarrel," he
single season, seemed to her like a fable,  replied, shrinking back from her piercing look;
"Which is the best place to go to I" she  "i don't ~want to offend you, I'm sure."
asked.                                      "Then ~hake hands with Betsy," replied Ce-
"They are all good ,", replied Jake, "but I  celia, "and let us drink once more t6 every-
expect New Orleans is about the best. J~ick  body's good health."
said it was the liveliest place."           Peace being thus restored, they all applied
The conversation became general and em-  themselves once more to the punch until the
braced such a variety of 5111)jCCtS as they were  last drop was gone, when after many good
conversant with, amongst which the theatre,  wishes Betsy and Jake retired to their room,
circus and nei~ro minstrels were the niost  and the others pretty well overcome with their
prominent. After they had all satisfied their  potations sought their rude beds in the cor-
appetites, the whiskey punch was placeil before  ners.
them, and, as in the most aristocratic assem-  As the night advanced, the wind grew more
bhrges, the fun grow fast and furious.. They  furious, and the clouds that whirled through
told stories, related jokes and sang songs,  the sky gave promise of a speedy storm, which
laughed, shouted, and finally Jake danced a  the severity of the weather told must he snow.

7)JVrT TTIr ~17T73I7,~LY
XJJJIILLJ UI~L ILILL.~dAJ.
the sky, scarcely perceptible at first, and then
a glare shown over the district near the Tombs,
while from all around the loud voices of the~
watchmen raised and reiterated the cry 0?
"Fire? Fire? Fire I"
Then came the ding, 4ong, clatter, bang, of
the bells, and in less time than it would take
to tell it, half-a-dozen engines, followed by the
brave and devoted men who were to man them,
were rushing through the streets, with the
speed of race horses, indifferent to the pier-
cing cold. Now down Center street they come,
then around the corner, and in a moment more
the first stream of water 18 playing against
the walls of Sanderbund's tenement Louse.
Another and another company came quickly
upon the scene, until the whole available
force of the department Was on the ground
and hard at work.
"Now boys, hurry up, for God's sake don't
let us be last," cried a man, fire bat in band,
running along the line of men of a Hook and
Ladder Company. The company dashed along,
onwalid, faster and faster until they arrived at
the scene of the fire.
"Now loosen them ladders quick," said the
foreman, the same man who had encouraged
them on the road down.
"Where do you want them, Seliwell ?"
"Get 'em oil and we'll see," answered the
foreman -our old dry goods friend, Sam Sell-
well.
-' Bring one of yer ladders over here, Sam,"
said the forenian of one of the engine com-
panies, "here's a woman in the third story."
The fire had commenced, it seemed, in the
lower story, and must have worked with won-
derful rapidity, for all the lower doors were
closed, and excepting the woman at the third
story window, no sign of life bad yet come
from the house. The flames were already
shooting out of the windows of the second
story and lt~pping the lower part of the house
in a great sheet of fire.
"The devil himself couldn't stand that
heat," said one of the men as he attempted to
rabe the ladder against the burning house.
"For God's sake hurry," cried the woman,
appearing again, and now with a child in her
arms.
"Up with the ladder, up with it, hurrah
now," cried Sam.
"Then there came a wild shriek of horror,
pain and agony and the woman disappeared,


2A4

MARDI

and in a 'moment more the flames were seen
shooting wildly up against the ceiling and
around the wood-work of the room she had oc-
cupied.
Those who ha4 composed the little party in
Cecelia's room, had retired to bed more than
an hour before and slept heartily after the in-
dulgencies of the night. Jake was first to hear
the poise and hardly knew for some moments,
what to make of it. When fully aroused he
sprang from bed and in doing so aroused Bet-
sy.
"Where are you going, Jake I" she asked.
"i'm going to get out of this," he answered
in a hasty, angry tone, "don't you hear, you
sleepy-head, the house is on fire I"
"On fire, oh! my God I" exclaimed the wo-
man, springing up,- "what 'will we do, what
will we do?"
"Do! got out of this," he said starting for
the door.
"Take me, Jake," she cried, catching hold of
him, "take me along Jake."
"Let me go," he said, trying to shake her off~
"Oh! don't leave me, Jake!" she pI.eaded,~
"what will I do-don't leave me, oh! for God's~
sake, don't leave me."
"Let me go, you fool," he cried1 pushing
her rudely from him and hurrying down the
hall. When he reached the stairs, he ran down
them, in his hurry passing two or three steps
at a time. When he reached the curve of the
stairs his foot sljpped, and stumbling forward
he came head foremost on to the floor, which,
rotten by years of use and weakened by the
flames that had been burning against it, now
gave way beneath him, and as he uttered a
foul imprecation on his soul, he was hurled
below, striking a burning rafter here and a
projecting plank there, until at last, senseless
and almost lifeless, lie wa~s stretched out on
the heap of burning timbers ou the ground
floor. Betsy had followed him to the stairs,
witnessed his fall ar~d as the flames shot an-
grily up thi~ough the hole made by his passing
body, she could go no further, but stood call-
jug in a wild frenz~r, "Fire, fire, fire."
Through all this not a movement had been
heard on the upper story of the building. Ce-
celia slept soundly, and dreamed of the scenes
she had passed through during the summer.
Then her mind wandered to the storied fields
of the South, and visions of maugoes, bananas
and tropical flowers, ladened with heavy per-

GRAS;
fumes, filled her dreams. At last there came a
confused noise, she thought some onewas call-
ing her, then there was the sound of many
voices, and she started from her bed, half
asleep, to hear Betsy's horrid cry of "Fire,
fire."
"Nelly, Sally, get up," she cried, pushing
the sleeping girls with her feet whil6 she hnr-
riedly put on some of her clothes. "Nelly,
makeup! Nelly, Sally, don't you hear I"
"What? what is it Ceely I" they both in-
quired.
~ she replied, "hurry up, the house
is on fire! Listen! My God! we will all be
burned up !"
They all beard the cries iu the street, the
dull, measured stroke of the engines as the
men worked on them, and the crackling, hiss-
ing noise of the flames as they raged and
rolled nearer and nearer, while ever and anon,
above all, came Betsy's cry of "fire, fire."
Cecelia rushed out into the ball, where the
smoke and heat were almost overpowering,
and comprehending the position at a glance,
called P1 Betsy, who was yet standing by the
stair-way below.
"Come here, Betsy, if you stand there
streaming you will never escape. Come here,
quick, up with you and we will see what we
can do."
She then ran to the end of the hall, threw
open the front window and called to the men
in the street below. The occupants of the
other rooms on the flooi~, men, won~en and
children, to the number of thirty or forty,
were now coming out, crying, screaming,
wringing their hands and running to and fro.
The scene was terrible below them, the fire
raged' fiercely, approaching nearer each mo-
ment, the crisping and hissing of the flames
was painfully distinct, the smoke swept
through the hall in choking, blinding clouds
and the heat grew more and more intense.
There seemed no chance of escape but by the
front windows, and to leap through them
would be certain death on the stone paved
street below.
"Bring that long ladder here," cried Saw,
as Cecelia appeared at the window above;
"hurry up, let's make one more effort to save
them."
The ladder was brought and placed agaimt
the burning house, but thc heat was so gredt
that the men could scarcely stand by it. "Who
I

in h-can go up there ?" said one of the men
'just look at that flame, it would roast a fel
Icr 1,efore he could get up."
"Stand aside," said Sam, preparing to as
cend.; "it never shall be said they burned tc
death without an attempt at rescue from us.'
"But look, Sam," remonstrated the man,
"who could go through that I"
"XVho ever saw a true fireman afraid, wher
hurnan4ife was to be saved," said Sam, firmly,
"I say, George," he continued, addressing a
man with one of the pipes, 'just turn youi
stream on me and keep it there all the wa~
The man obeyed and Sam began to mcend
Soon two other streams are turned on him and
his ladder, and l~is progress was watched with
breathless interest by all of the immense
crowd assembled. On he went, now he comes
to where the heat is fiercest, and hesitates for
one brief moment only; but what a thrill went
through the crowd, and on he goes-now he
nears the window and-he is inside. A sad-
den thought seized the fire bound victims and
with one accord they rushed for the window
to throw themselves out upon the ladder. In
vain did Sam talk to them, calling on them to
wait, to go with care or help each other to es-
cape. Seine in their hurry missed their foot-
ing and fell, children were pushed entirely out,
and thus hurled to the street below. A few
clinging to the ladder were bruised and tramp-
lad on by others above them, or burned by the
flames that darted up and flashed around them.
'J~he firemen kept their streams steadily on the
ladder and thus kept a few from perishing.
Atla~t the ladder was clear once more and his
companions called loudly for Sam to come
down.
Cecelia had retired when the rush began, and
now that it was over, she approached the win-
dow and looked out from the giddy height.
Through all this time she had been terribly
quiet, so quiet that it seemed as if reason had
left her; and as she looked out ol' the window
her courage failed and she turned away again.
"Come, I'll help you," said Sam, "let me step
out and then you hold on to me and we'll go
down together."
"No, no, I can't," she replied shuddering, "to
fall there would be certain death."
"To remain here is certain death I" exclaim-
ed Sam, and he caught her firmly in his arms
and stepped forth. Th~ shout of delight that

A TALE Off ANTE BELL TIM [lIMES.

CHATTER XL
The sun rose clear and bright gilding the
church spires and house tops with a flood of
light, cheering wherever it penetrated, and dis-
pelling all thoughts of the storm that had
seemed so imn~inent the night before. it was
a calm winter's morning, and, although the
trees were leafless, and the grass was withered
and brown, the warm rays of the sun made a
pleasant mellow light, making it seem like a
day in that loveliest of seasons, Indian sum-
mer. The busy hum of the returning current
of merchants, clerks, needle women and labor-
ers, as they came from their homes across the
two rivers, or from the upper part of the is-
land, soon grew strong, and the preparations
for the day's business werenoticeable on every-
where. The boys at' Barege, Muslin &amp; Cu's.,
were sweeping out and dusting, the porters
made great piles of calicos and domestics
and hung out attractive shawls at the doors,
the clerks who cam&amp; early were arranging and
asserting up their stocks and everybody ~1'out
the store was busy.
"We'll have a fine day after all," said Mr.
Droll, who was marking a lot of handker-
chiefs that had just come in.
"Yea, we are likely to do a good trade," re
plied Sam, with a look at the agreeable warmth
outside, "and the more the merrier," for I just
want a roaring trgde to keep me alive to-day."
"You're 'owly,' to-day, hey 1" said Peter,
"were you at a fire or frolic last night ?"
"A little of both, especially the fire busi-
ness," replied Sam. "Eh I gad, you ought to
have been there, you never would have wished
to see another fire."
"What was it, Sam."
"A tenement house, chock full of people,
not more than a dozen of whom were saved,"
replied Sam. "Such a sight! My God! to hear
tAre poor people shrieking fbr help! 'nell, all

his brother firemen sent up, as Sam appeared
on the ladder, was hearty and prolonged.. All
the streams of water in the neighborhood
were turned upon him at once and as he des-
cended step by step, cheer after cheer was giv-
0n, and when he reached the ground in safety
with the rescued girl, the members of his com-
pany relieved him of the burden, and he was
almost overpowered with praises and congrat-
ulations.


MARDI
rye got to say-good morning madam, mourn-
ing collars I Yes, madam, a fine lotY
At this moment Philip came in, and being
late, was met at the door by Mr. Crape, who
angrily inquired where he had been; but
Philip seeing Mr. Muslin near the lace took,
stepped over to him and made his explain tion.
"I was up nearly all night," he said," ith a
friend who hiss been very ill for a long time,
and died this morning.~~
"Indeed, Ptsilip," replied Mr. Muslin, 'I am
sorry to hear it. Any of your uncle's fa ily?"
"No, sir," said Philip, "an old lady who
lived neat us, and as they have no one ~o a's-
sist, I should like to be absent until to-m~rrow
"Very well, Philip," replied Mr. Muslin.
." What is the news ~ asked Mr. Droll, as he
came forward.
"She is dead," replied Philip.
"Poor old lady, ~ am very sorry," said Mr.
Droll. "Hew is Mary I"
"She is very quiet, but seems to feel l~er loss
very much."
"Yes, yes, poor girl," replied Peter, "it's a
terrible loss to her."
"I am going to see about the funeral," said
Philip, "and I'll sit up there to-night."
"I'll come over," replied Peter; "'~ will be
with you about nine o'clock and keep you com-
pany inyour wisteb."
Mrs. Collinshad been failingvery rapidly,
and the physician who had been waiting on
her, had long known that he could do nothing
more than give her temporary relief from
pain, and make her death more tranquil and
easy. When Philip called the previous even-
ing, Mary saidthathermotherwtLsmuch worse,
and when he went into the room he was sur-
prised at the change which had taken place
since the morning. He insisted upon remain-
ing during the night so. that he might help
Mary in the trying time that he knew was now
close at hand. Mrs. Collins looked up, when
he spoke, and recognized hium with a smile
and a kind salutation, after which all were
quiet again. She was quite free from pain and
breathed softly and freely, except a slight rat-
tle now and then, which seemed to annoy her
more by its strangeness, than by any pain it
gave. About midnight the death look became
more distinct, her eyes wandered uneasily
about the room, and Mary, thinking that she

GRAS;                                                            A IALE OFAATT
wanted. a drink, gently raised her up, and of.  to stay all night, and others to spend the even
fered her some, but sh~i still continued to look  ing. The furniture was arranged with care
anxious.                                      an(I the few ornaments of the room were re
"What will YOU have, dear I" asked Mary.    moved or covered up. The remains, dressed is
"I am-going now-Mary-I know-I c~i~          a black silk dress, were exposed on a large ta.
not live- ~'                                 ide covered with drapery of white, over which
"Oh! no, no, no, dear, do not think of that,"  were strewn flowers and evergreens, arranged
said ~Iary.                                  in wreathes, bouquets and festoons. Around
"Yes, Mary-I must-I cannot put it off"-    the corpse wax candles were burning, and at
and she looked at Philip.                    the head a large crucifix was placed. Many ol
"What is it, mother dear ~ said Mary ten-  the callers 111)011 entering made the sign of the
derly.                                       cross, and kneeling, said a prayer for the rest
"No-I am not-" again she paused and        of the soul of the deceased.
looked anxiously at Philip.
"Will YOU have the priest, mother dear ~'    For an hour or two after Mr. Droll arrived,
visitors were coming and going, each one sny-
asked Mary.                              .   ing some kind word or offering some consoling
"Yes-yes-quick, Mary-quick."               reflection to Mary, who sat by one of the little
Mary requested Philip to go to the Cathedral  front windows, her heart too full of grief and
for one of the Fathers, which he did at once'  sadness, for relief through the medium  of
During his absence Mrs. Collins talked to Mary  tears. She felt that now she was alone in the
as much as her strength would permit, ad-    world, there was no relative to whom she
vised her about her, future life, and unburden-  could go, no friend upon whom she could rely,
ed to her the few thoughts that had laid buried  or from whom she had a right to expect corn-
in her mind for years, and gave her an outline  fort or assistance. Alone in the world !~ The
of the history of the family, many of tbe facts  strong man loses mother, father oy~wife, and
and incidents of which w"re new to Mary.    he feels alone in the world. The woman, with
When Philip returned with the priest, she  a mind folly formed, trained and educated,
was quite calm again and received the Father  loses these ddar friends upon whom she has
with evident satisfaction.                  leaned for support and kindness, and she feels
After this she fell into a gentle sleep, so  that she is now alone in the world! And these
peaceful and calm that the watchers were al-  are terrible. But Mary was a mere child,
most persuaded that she was getting better  kindly and tenderly cared for, raise&amp;to love
and would soon be out again,                and cherish home and home influences, taught
About four o'clock she awoke, and requested  in the paths of virtue and goodness, her mind
that she might be allowed to sit up in bed.  trained to adore and venerate the Church,
Mary raised her with tender care and held her  11cr Redeemer, and God. how unprepared for
head in her arms, while Philip arranged the  the battle of life was that innocent, confiding
pillows so that they would support her when  child! The change from this home, humble and
she was laid back again. While in this pesi.  idain as it was, to the rough, designing, Wick-
tion, she looked lovingly into Mary's face'  ed world, would he great-very great.
smiling upon her, and say~ng with the depth   As the night wore on, the watchers becamn~
of true heart-feeling, "God bless you, Mary,  more sociable and passed away the time in
dear," she quietly passed away; her face bore
the peaceful repoSe of an infant's in deep  conversation.
her back upon the snowy     "The old lady looks very ~     said Mrs.
sleep, and Mary laid                        B~ddice, ~n broad shoulderedgoodnatured lady,
pillows-dea'l.
The neighbors came in early in the morning  who kept a small vi~riety store over the way.
and kindly assisted in the arrangements, lay-  "As true as life," replied Miss Catherine, an
ing her out in the parlor of the little house,  Irish servant girl, who had known Mrs. Col-
and preparing Mary for the funeral, which was  un's folks in the ~'ould country," "nice well-to-
to take place$he next day.                 do people they were too," she often said.
When Mr. Droll came over in the evening he  "She wa~ an excellent lady," said Mr. Drofl,
found all these preparations concluded, and  as he took a seat near theni.
several of the neighbors who had come in, some . "ye might well say that, sur," replied Cath-

B BELL UJi( TiMES.        87

37

erine, "she was a well eggiearcd woman, as
was her mother before her."
"You knew her at home I,' inqulued Peter.
"I didn't know herself much," replied Cathe-
rine, "she was older tl~n me. I remember well
when she was married to Mr. Collins, and a
few days after left to come to lihis country. I
was quite young then, but I never shall f6rgea
how handsome she looked and how beautiful.
Miss Sarah Murrey was as the bridesmaid. it
was the handsomest sight lever saw."
"I have talked with her often about the old
country," said Peter.
"Her folks had a nice farm, and everything
comfortable," replied Catherine, "and *were
well connected, the mother was a born lady. I
knew the younger children, and lived once
for a short time with the family."
"She came to this country while she was
young, I have often heard her say."
"Yes, her husband was mixed up in poli-
ties and was crazy to come to a free country,"
replied the girl.
"Thousands have left their home~" replied
Peter, "for no other reason. The persecutions
that have cursed that country have been a
great benefit to this, by sending out many a
good and brave man to seek a home here."
"Oh! that's true," said the girl. "Now there
was the young Squire, he was suspected of
having something to do ~'ith trying to get up
a revolution and was compelled to sell out and
leave. Ab! that was a flue estate, a whole
country side which had belonged to his family
for generation after generation. He was ~x fine
looking young man and never a tenant was
distressed by hini or his fathers."
"It was a sad thing for an old family to be
broken up so."
"So it was, sir, and one of the best in the
country,~~ replied Catherine. "Before the
union, as they call it, they belonged to the no-
bility of the land, and for their opposition to
English rule and' the abuses heaped upon our
country, their titles were taken away and their
estates cut down, and after all the young
Squire was compelled to leave. I don't re-
member the charges brought against him, but
I have often heard the people talk about him
and Sarah Murrey. She was semptress for the
family, a very handsome and intelligent girl,
and the folks used to say she was in love with
the young Squire, but of course their positions
in life werbe too different to admit ot' their


n,7~  ~i nna .

88                               J]LLLIY.L~L
union. After he sold out and came to Ameri-
ca, she came out here also."
"Did they get married I" asked Mr. Droll.
"Oh! no. He lives way down south some-
where, and she lived here. It is only a short
time since I was speaking to Mrs. Collins
about her~ she and Sarah were always good
friends. Sarah died very suddenly, while
spending some time in Troy. I don't think she
ever saw the Squire after she came out here.
If she did no one ever knew it."
"Very sad, such breaking up of families,"
said Mrs. Boddice, who had sat quietly listen-
ing to this conversation.
"it's awful," replied Catherine, "but friends
are friends in life and death, and Mrs. Collins
told me that she knew Sarah was dead before
~he heard of it through the papers, because
she saw the banshee."
"You don't believe in the banshee, do you I"
asked Philip, who now joined the circle.
"Not believe in the banshee I" exclaimed
Catherine, "there's nothing truer than the
banshee. Sure my own cousin saw her. You
see, cousin John was much in love with my
sister Mary, a lovely ~jrl, the darlin' of the
family. I~ was no wonder that John loved
her, for everybody done that, and so he wasn't
to blame. But you.know the holy Church for-
hiSs such marriages, and me mother wouldn't
ha' listened to it at all. Mary loved John, and
in truth he was as fine a young man as ever
struck a blow for the ouldeountry or emigrated
to free America to 050'pO ol)pression and
wrong. One morui~g John he comes up to
Mary, as she was standing at ~he front door,
God love her, and he says, 'Mary, darlin', I'm
gem' across io the good country, and won't
you come along I' 'John, I can't, because
mother would never forgive it.' 'Sure, Mary,'
he says, 'an' after the knot's tied and all over,
your mother will say God bless you.' 'Now,
John, dear,' says she, an' heaven rest the dar-
tin', 'John,~ says she, 'you know the Father
would not marry us.' 'The oi~ild man will do
it,' says John, 'an', if tie don't, the Squire
will.' 'John, John,' says Mary, her eyes
standia' out wid horror, 'I didn't think, John,
you'd speak so disrespectful of our Holy
Mother, the Church.' 'Is it I,' says John,
'would say anything against the Church? not
I, my darling, but sure if we played a little trick
on them, and got the Squire to do the job
first, they would add their 'blessings after.

wards.' 'No, no, John,' she says, 'I never can
do anything behind backs, like, an' you better
try an' find some one more deserving of yonr
love, John,' and so, after a long talk, they sep-
erated, both of them feeling very sad indeed.
John he came to America, and from that very
day Mary kept failing in health, just pining
away like. Now, one morning, it was a Sun-
day morning, and John was latin' abed later
than usual, mind, he were here in New York,
and w~ were in the ould country. In his room
there wus a pair o' stairs, which led up into
the room over head. lie' looked up, as he lay
there in bad, and who should he see but me
sister Mary, i~ comm' down the stairs. He was
surprised and sat 'up in bed, and she, looking
him right in the face, kept on dowil stairs,
came round the foot of the bed, up to the side
of it, and stood there, looking steadily at him.
Her fuce was very pale, but natural, and her
big brown eyes seemed filled with compassion
andlove for him. That way shestoodformore'n
a minit,'and then-she was gone, how or where
hecould not tell. At thatvery moment, inthese
arms of uLine, me sister Mary, Our Holy Mother
pray for her, took her departure for a better
and happier world."
This story, told in a low, full tone of~voice,
and with an earnestness that left no cixunce to
doubt tl]e speaker's sincerity, told, too, in the
presence of death itself, made quite an impres-
sion on all present.
"The old country is full of legends of inter.
est," said Mr. Droll, after a brief silence, "and in
my own country it is the same.. There's not a
crag, or peak, or rocky pass but has its wild
story of former days. In our town there lived,
and, for aught I know, lives there yet, a sturdy
old fellow, by the name of Hugh MeFall. Ho
was a brawny, roaring boy, a good worker at
his trade of blacksmith, and when at his forge
could make the sparks fly with the next man
s~ho came along, no matter who he was. Hugh
was a good man to his family, a wife, a gentle,
klnd.hearted creature, and four or five healthy,
blooming children, and for all the country
round there was not a man more esteemed as a
mechanic, nor more welcome as a friend, than
jolly Hugh MeFall. lInt Hugh loved his pot
and his glass, and, after a few weeks ef steady
toil, 'on an extra good job, he was sure to wind
up at the public house of the town, and there
spend his money, and an hour or two, or may-
hap a whole night of drinking and carousing

A TALE OF ANTE BtLLUM TIMES.
with a lot of boon companions. He was an ly bright by the excitement and trouble
inveterate card player, and would play day or through which she was passing, made a deep
night, Sunday or Monday, and never knew impression on the watchers. In a quiet man-
when to stop. This cost him nearly all nor, which showed how great was the emotion
his earnings, and at times his poor family she had subdued within her heart, she asked
would be distressed for food. One Sunday them to go into the back room.
night he 4as coming home from drinking and Here they found prepared for them ii lunch
card playing, and had to pass through a p0- of coffee, bread and butter and boiled ham,
tato field for a near cut. When he came which they partook of heartily, chatting da-
te the stile where he had to cross the fence, ring the time about the weather, fashions and
a strange man, very well dressed, was standing general topics of interest of the day. Return-
there, apparently waiting for him. 'Good lug to the parlor, after a look at the corpecand
evening, Mr. McFalI,' said the stranger. 'Good some 'casual remarks about the life-like looks
evening, sir,' says Hugh, 'but you have the ad- of Mrs. Collins, they once more took theirseats.
vintage of me.' 'Oh, that's nothing,' replied Mary had resumed her seat near the window,
the stranger, 'I have that of a good many peo- and, although the night was well nigh gone,
l)le. I know you well, however, and would sl~e gently but firmly refused all entreaties
like to play a game of cards with you.' 'Not that she should retire to rest.
to-night,' says Hugh. 'Oh, come man, it's a "That people do sometimes revisit the earth
bright moonlight night, and we may as well after death," said Mrs. Boddice, that' subject
have a little fun,' replied the stranger. 'No, having been introduced by Mr. Droll, "there
I'm going home,' insisted Hugh. 'You hotter are many persons who will testify, persona
try me a while,' says the stranger, 'I'd like of such character and standing that their cvi-
the fun just now.' 'But I've been playing,' deuce is beyond question."
replied Hugh, 'and I'm going home.' 'I have "We have a thousand such tales in Scot-
heard you were the best player in the town,' land," replied Peter, "but I thought those
says the stranger, as he produced a pack of who saw th~ wonders were like Burns, when
cards, 'and now you back out when I asl~ you counting the horns~of the moon, 'but whether
to play.' The sight of the cards, coupled with she had three or four, he cudna tell."'
this banter, was too much for hugh, and so "That is the popular idea," said Mrs. Bed-
they sat down by a large, fiat stone that lay in dice, "people hoot at such 'things because it
the 'radden~' or foot path, and began to play is fashionable to do so. What I am going to
Money was staked by both, and piled up be- tell you rests on too good authority to be qu~s-
side them on the stone. Hugh won and lost, toned, except by those who are deteriiiin~d
and so did the stranger, when, after they had not to believe. In our church, down here1 *e
played for nearly an hour, Hugh accidentally had a sexton, who served there for many years.
dropped one of his cards, and, when he stooped Old Joe was ~nown everywhere and esteemed
over to pick it up, his eyes came near flying by all who knew him. He was a pious, up-
out of their sockets, for, lo, and behold, the right man, as near a saint as human nature
stranger had a cloven foot! Recovering him- can be. He would deny himself evey comfort,
5elf, Hugh, who was a Catholic, hastily made live on the least possible moiety, that he might
th~ sign of the cross. 'What do you mean by save his salary and the alms that were given
th~ut V exclaimed the stranger, getting up in a him, atid with this money he would hunt out
rare. Hugh. devoutly repeated the action, the deserving poor~ and assist them, and few,
saying the words aloud, when the stranger at very few people ever knew of his charities.
once vanished and Hugh hastened home. From ll~very morning, long before daylight, he would
that day he never touched a card, or got drunk be in the church, doino. the stations, saying
again, but many a time he told of his game of some litany or prayer, a'~d throughout the day
cards with the devil."                  and night much of his 1~ime was spent in the
Mary had been absent from the room for some same manner. So well ~nown were his pious
time, and returned as Mr. Droll finished his sto- habits, and so highly ~as he esteemed, that
ry. Herblack clothes, pale and care-worn face, he was frequently requ~isted by people of the
and sorrowful expression, as she lo4~ked at parish and from other parishes, too, to pray
them, her eyes made peculiarly and unr~ atural- for their deceased friends, or the conversion or
U


40

M ARDI

return to the Church of sinners. These charges
were always accepted by Joe with evident
satisfaction. I think I see lkim now, that good
old man, so tall and straight, with no extra
~esh on him, a muscular mar~, used to austerity
and penance in his personal~ habits, but with
a face full of expression, s kind and gentle,
and the finest, most expressive dark brown
eyes I ever saw. One of the members of the
church died and was buried it's no use wound-
ing feelings by mentioning ames, for he has a
large family living here yet, but I will call
tim Mr. B. About six w~eks after Mr. B's
death, as good old Joe was saying the stations
early one morning, he felt something run
against him like a man. He got up and
looked around, but nothing was tobe seen. He
knelt again, and was again jostled, and this
continued s~ that he could scarcely say his
prayers. This continued for several days.
Whenever Joe entered the church he was run
against, pushed and jostled around so that he
could hardly attend to his duties or say
his devotions. Finally he went to his confes-
sor, and asked his advice, giving him a history
of all that had happened, and the good Father
advised Joe to speak and ask what was wanted.
He had no sooner returned to the church than
the same demonstrations were commenced,
and, making the sign of the cross, he demand-
ed, in God's name, what was wanted, when,
right there before him Mr. ~. appeared, just as
he had often seen him in life. 'What do you
want?' asked Joe, again blessing himself. 'I
want you to make a restitution for me,' said
Mr. B. or what had been him when he was
alive, 'and I can never rest uxitil it is done.'
'Very well, what shall I do I' asked Joe. 'Go
to my house, and in the box where I kept my
private papers you will find a watch, a fine
gold watch which I never used, because I came
by it unjustly. Tell my wife to give it to you,
and take it to Mr. Th, to whom it belongs.' Joe
not only promised to do this, but also to pray
for the poor sinner. He went to the house and
told Mrs. B. what bad happened, and they to-
gether looked for the watch and fuund it. It
was avery valuable article, and Mrs. B. refused
to give it up, saying that Joe had been dream-
ing and she did not believe Mr. B. had come by
the watch dishonestly. While she was talking
her husband appeared in the room and directed
her to give the watch to Joe. She did so, of
course, atid toe, took it to Mr. D., who at

GRAS;                                                            A TALE OP AIYTZ
once recognized it and was glad to get it     "It is the only ferry that I have neglected,"
back again. The family were very much dis   replied Mr. MacVain; "I have sledorn watched
stressed about the matter for fear it would be-  there, the very place I should have been most
at."
come known, which it never would, if some of
them had not had long tongues and told it'    When they had fully talked the itiatter over,
However, very few people have heard .t and I  they crossed the Grand street ferry together
suppose it will go no further."             and inquired in the neighborhood indicated by
The first faint light of morning was by this  Ceceltit, but could find no one that knew any
time appearing in the east and the friends got  thing about her. There was a man who kept
up and walked around the room, through the  an extensive store for the sale of groceries,
vegetables, and some of the neigh-
yard, and finally took their departure. At ten meats and v
o'clock a few friends assembled, and the un- hors said that "he knew everybody," and to
pretending funeral procession took up its way him the two gentlemen went. After thinking
to the cemetery, where the last solemn services the matter over, as if reviewing his extensive
of the church were performed, and the ground acquaintance in procession in his mind, this
received the mortal remains of one, who when man shook his head and said that there was no
living had well and faithfully discharged her such girl anywhere in the neighborhood. They
duties to her family and to society, and with now returned to the city again, perfectly at a
truth and sincerity, as well as frail human loss to understand the new disappointment.
nature may, had'sought to follow the teachings Mr. MacVain remembered that the girl had
and precepts of her Divine Master.         answered him freely and without hesitation,
and he was at a loss to know why she should
deceive him. Lost in a deep study over the
CHAPTER ~L                   conduct of this strange girl, he did not notice
Early in the morning of the day after his  that they were again in the city until ac-
visit to the Broadway cave, Mr. MacVain left  costed by a poor woman, in a torn dress, coy-
his' rooms to look for Williams, to acquaint  ered with dust and charcoal marks, who asked
him with the events of the previous evening,  for alms. His first impulse was to draw forth
He found him at the Star, a well known Eng-  a small sum of money and give it to her, but
lish eating and ale saloon, where they took  \Vi1liai~ns interfered and asked the beggar
breakfast together and arranged their plans  where she lived.
for the future.                             "Oh, sir, I did live at Sanderbund's, but you
"I managed the ~business well," said Mr.  know it was burned up, and my poor Jake was
MacVain,                                   lost in the fire," answered Betsy.
"I knew, the moment you came in' implied   "That was the tenement house that burned
Williams, "that you had good news."       last night," said Mr. MacVain.
"The meeting was very unexpected," con-   "Yes, sir, it was," replied Betsy, "and an
tinned Mr. MacVain, "and I was afraid to ask  awful.tg'ht it was."
her, in a direct manner, any questions at all.  "Were there many people lost I" a~ked Mr.
But, by seeming indifferent and careless, I got  MacVain.
all the information I wanted."              "Yes, sir, nearly everybody in the house,"
"It was a very fortunate adventure," said  replied Betsy, "and we would all have been
Williams, "and will enable us to brinS this  burned up if it hadn't been for Ceely."
trail to a speedy termination." .           "For who I?' exclaimed both gentlemen.  ~
"Yes, so it will," replied Mr. MacVain, "we  '~ Ceely-she lived in the story over me," C
will go over and hunt her up, and I will then replied Betsy.
leave the case in your hands. By getting well  "What more than Ceely was her name 7" ~
acquainted with her you can learn her history  Mr. MacVain inquired.
and be able to tell whether she is the child I "Ceely Benson-but did you know her, sir?" t
"Where is she now 7" asked Mr. MacVain,
am looking for."
"Oh, all that is easy enough, now that we without noticing the other's question.
know where she lives," said Williams, "though  "I don't know, sir," she answered.
it is denied strange that I never met her on the  "Mr. Williams, let us go to my room," said b
ferry."                                   Mr. MacVain, "you come with us," he added, si
I

addressing Betsy, "and give me what infor-
mation you can about Cecelia and I will re-
ward you liberally."
This arrangement was agreed to, and the
three proceeded to Mr. MacVain's apartments.
Here Betsy gave a history of~Ceeelia's move-
meats from the first of her acquaintance with
her, and finished by giving it as her opinion
that Cecelia would go to Boston again unless
she found a good place in the city. She wil-
lingly volunteered to assist in hunting her up,
and the next four or five days were~ spent in
visiting such places as Betsy thought Cecelia
would go to * In none of these could they hear
anything of her; she had not been around and
no one had seen her. Mr. MacVain supplied
Betsy with new clothes and money to pay her
expenses, and advised Williams to employ her
during the next few mouths to help him look
up the missing girl.
"I must go home," he said, speaking to that
gentleman, "my business demands my. pres-
ence in New Orleans, and I will again leave
the whole matter in your hands."
Williams hesitated some minutes before re-
plying, as he had determined to try to g.ive up
the situation, if possible, and was now studying
how he should b4ng it about.
"Really, Mr. MacVain, I fear that, when we
find this girl," he said, "it will only be another
disappointment."
"Why do you think so?" asked Mr4 MacVain,
whQ had not allowed himself to doubt the
[dantity of the girl.
"Well, I can not see the reason for suppos-
ng that she is the child you are looking for,"
~eplicd Williams.
"Why, her name, age, and desolate condi-
~ion, without friends or family," said Mr. Mac-
Vain, "all this is in favor of the supposition."
"The name I dbn't think much proof, it is
iot a very uncommon one," replied Williams,
and, as to the other circumstances, we have
allowed up a sedre of more promising cases
~nly to be disappointed at last."
"Well, sir, while you are looking her up, if
~ou see any one else that you think is the
hild we are in search of, yen can pay atten-
ion to them," replied Mr. MacVain. "As to
iving up the case, that is out of the question.
will follow it as long as I live, cost what it
may, e~nd as it may, no exertion of mine shall
o wanting to bring it to a successful conelu-
[on."
6

~' IThILL UM TIMES.

.41


A ~L1LE OFJYTI~
42                               MARDI GRAS;
This was said in a manner 80 emphatic and high, ~ne forehead, made more prominent by sans on the subject, knew nothing of the val-
decided that Mr. Williams was convinced it the fact that he was getting a little bald in no of money; add to this the fact that every
hard-up steamboat-man, out of-place clerk
would be useless to argtie the 'point any fur- front; his hair, which was thick and heavy on and broken down countryman, went straight-
timer. He, therefore, promised to do all that the rest of his head, was kept trimmed short
could be done, and, on ~ following day, Mr. and neatly combed. He wore a moustache, way t9 Dick for "a little loan for a mouth or
MacVain start&amp;l fo; bern home. and the remainder o~ his full, round face, was two until times would mend," and that the
Leaving business iw ',he proceeded to shaved clean and bore a look of kind, open- twenty-five, fifty, hundred or more dollars
Buffalo, where he to   jf the lake packets heartedness that was charming to see, while  which he was sure to lend, after hearing their
for Chicago, thence, '~ ~age, to Peotia, and hl\s dark brown eyes were full of merriment, tale of woe, in nine cases out of ten never
from tlie~e by boat down the Illinois-river to sparkled with the light of wit and humor. l~o came back, and the fact that he never" put
his destination, man was better acquainted from, the Balise to money in his purse," to 8tcly there, will be easily
Having transacted his business, Mr. MacVain Ci cinnati or St. Louis, than Dick Cheerful, accounted for. Mr. Thomas Cane, was an:
went on board the new and elegant steamer, an at home he was a favorite with everybody, elderly gentleman who had seen much of hard
Western Wave, commanded by Captain Joe N party was complete without him; no ama- times, and "man's inhumanity to man," had
Brown, om~e of the most poj~ular men on the te r concert was perfect without his voice; umade his fortune by steady, Persevering indus-
Mississippi river, wht6h has always been fa- an the masquerade at which he did not ap- try, and knew just exactly how many cents it
'mona for polite and accommodating men. The pe r in some grotesque character was voted a takes to make a dollar. But he was a kind-
boat was built to combine speed, comfort and la e affair. His wife was his companion in hearted man, indulgent to his clerks, whom he
freight capacity, and Was now in herJlrst sea- al these amusements, and enjoyed his popu- treated as members of his family, and knew
eon As Mr. MacVaiti stood leaning on the la ity, and felt far more pride in it than Dick how to be charitable and generous when he
guards ot~ the passenger deck, watching the did himself, for, in fact, it was so natural for believed the object a deserving one. Mr. Plant
crowd on the levee below, hurrying to and fro him to be pleasant'and agreeable that he could was a tall thin man, who prided himself much
as the hour for the departure of the boat drew see nothing unusual about it. ' on his learning and business qualities. By
near, a hand was laid familiarly on his shoul- He was a native of Nathes, where his father some strange chance he had gained the entire
der, and a cheerful voice exclaimed was a lawyer of considerable ability and repu- confidence and esteem of AIr. Cane, and was
 It's a long time since I saw you a little tsation, having been District Judge and a mom.- admitted to the firm without a dollar of e:mpi-
while." ber of the Legislature. Although enjoying a tal, at a tim'q when the standing of the h~use
"~Vhy, Dick, I'm glad to see you," said Mr. good practice, the judge ~vas too loose a mann- had been' established and success rend red
MacVain, as he grasped and warmly shook the ger to get much ahead of the world, generally certain. He lived high, was familiar With
other's hand, "how are you, old boy. I de- living fully up to his income. Dick took to the' "Boston," "Poker" and their companions, was
dare, of all men, you' are the last I expected to river in his youthful days,, as "natural as a a leader at the club, visited' the watering
see, and the most welcome." duck takes to water," and having run away places, and indulged every whim or passion
"Thank you, Mac, thank you, I have been from school when fifteen years of age, was that crossed his mind. All this he carried un-
hearty, how have you been yourself I" replied shortly afterwards discovered filling the posi- der an austere deportment, was ostentatiously
his friend, "where have you been so long I" tion of barkeeper's boy, on a packet plying be- honest and a great lecturer on other men's fol-
"Knocking about here 'and there," replied tween Cincinnati and St. Louis. After this he lies. For many years-his expenses were more
MacVain, a tinge of melancholy crossing h~5 was "Mud Clerk," on the coast packet trade of than his income, although his share in the
face, as he thought of what had been his busi- New Orleans, and then for severiil years, was profits was the same as Mr. Cane's. By fortu-
ziess, and how fruitless all his exertissas 'had first clerk on some of the most popular boats nate outside transactions, at which he played
proven; "but I mast now ask where you have that plied between New Orleans and Louis- high, and the failure of which would have for-
been 1" ville or St. Louis. When twenty-one years old, ever swamped the whole COncern, he made
"Been to York," was the reply; "our house Dick married M~ s~,,Susan Andrew, and two some large amounts of money, which being
bad a claim against t~e underwriters on a years later took m~p his residence in the Cres- Placed to his credit, suddenly brought his ac-
cargo of cotton, and went on to settle it. cent City, having accepted the position of count with the firm up to an equality with
I've 'been away two Ul uths and am an~.mous to book-keeper and cashier in the wealthy and that of Mr. Cane. lie was' a bachelor, and
get back." influential commission house of Cane, Plant sneered at domestic atfrictions and family ties.
"All well, Diclr V' inquired MacVain,  and Cotton.  Ills extensive acquaintance,  lie looked upon poor men as necessary evils,
"Why, yes, when I heard from them Sue thorough business qualifications, and honor- and when applied to for relief by some unfor-
said her health was good and tl~e children able character, made l~'is services almost in- tunate, he was often known to answer, "poor,
were as lively as crickets," replied Dick, valuable to the firm. His salary of four, was indeed, what's that to me, the d-fehlow ought
Richard Cheerful was a man about twenty- gradually increased to six thousand dollars to be ashamed to beo-" Ne
years of age,                                                                                 0'     ver having known
eight             of medium height, with per aunnUl, but he w~s one of those men who  adversity, selfish, conceited and pedantic, his ~
stout, substantial limbs, broad shoulders and could never allow a wish of his family to re- God, his world, his all, might be named in
fu'll c~xest. His head ~as well formed, with a main ungratified, and they having had no les- two words-"Alfrcd Plant."

BELL UJ[ TL1[ES.
Mr. David Cotton was a hard working, quiet
man, whose extensive acquaintance and thor-
oiigb knowledge of business, had gained him a
subordinate ylaco in the house, ~vith a small
share of the profits.
Dick's account with the house was gen orally
over-drawn four or five hundred dollars, ex-
cept at the end of the commercial year, when
by extra pinching and some "shinning" he
managed to square it up in time for the annual
balance sheet and business statement.
Richard~ Richard," old Mr. Cane would
say, in a h ~lf reproving, half sorrowful voice,
"this won't~ do, there's your account five hun-
dred dollar~ over-drawn."
"If you ~4~ant the money, I'll hand it in t~-
morrow," Dick would reply.
"It's not that, Richard, it's not that," the
old gentleman would continue, "but really you
ought to save your money."
"I am going to do so," and a quizical look
would cross Dick's face.
"'Gang ta die neire filled the kirk yard,' as
the Scotch say," would be Mr. Cane's answer;
you're getting old enough to look before you
and should prepare for a stormy day."
"What's the use of borrowing trouble," Dick
would reply, 'it's~ hard enough to get what a
fellow wants without hunting up disagreeable
things."
The lecture would usually end with a hearty
laugh, or a dubious shake of the head from the
old gentleman.
Amongst the passengers assembled on the
~\Testery1 Wave, there was a gentleman who
bore himself in an erect, mfhitary manner,
seemed to measure his steps and walk with as
much precision, as a first sergeant drilling a.
green squad, and calling out, "left, left, left."
Re wore a fierce moustache, with bushy side
whiskers in English style, his hair was black,
and long, and combed with much attQntion, a
diamondd pin sparkled in his cambric shirt
Front, and a heavy gold chain, with many
harms and trinkets attached, indicated that
Lie wore a watch.. As the l;oat ~vas backing
)ut to commence her downward trip, this per-
ion approached Dick, and giving him alook of
~ecogn~tion said:
"Mr. Cheerful-I believe."
"Yes, sir," replied Dick, with a look that
aid, "who are you."
"I had the pleasure of meeting you at the
)clta Club last spring,~' said the other. "i'm 8

I


44                      MARDi GRAS;                                           A !ZALF OF ANTE BELL UiI( TiMES.

New Orleans man myself-Spades is my name'
(iXlonel Spades, atnei our service.~~
"Glad to meet you, Colonel," replied Mr
Cheerful.
When Dick rejoined Mr. MacVain, that gen-
tieman asked:
"Who wa~ that you spoke to there, Dick?"
"He says he is a New Orleans man," was the
reply. "Spades, Colonel Spad4 is his name."
"Ahi yes, certainly," said 4r. MacVain, "I
remember him now, I saw him at Niagara,"
then sinking his voice he said, "his business
is keeping a tiger."
"Just so!" replied Dick~ "you can easily tell
by the cut of his jib, that he belongs to the
fancy.
Captain Brown was a man of great experi-
ence and one of the most cautions men on the
river. The water happened to be very low
between St. Lonis and Cairo, and the. Captain
kept the lead going nearly all the time. Fre-
quently he would stop altogether, and send a
yawl in advance to look for the channel and
place buoys for the pilot to steer by. The first
night being rather dark and cloudy, the boat
was laid up until morning. Some of the pas-
sengers thought this was acting too cautious,
but they were satisfied of the' wisdom of the
:neasui'e when on the way to Cairo they pass-
ed some six or eight boats hard and fast
aground that hdd left St. Louis two or three
days before the Western Wave. After passing
Cairo the boat began to show her qualities, a
good weight of steam was pat on and away
she went, passing every other vesse that
came in sight. One day as Mr. MacVa n sat
reading in the cabin, Dick came in fro the
guards. There had been another grand heer-
ing, fuss and commotion, by which Mr. Mac-
Vain knew that they had caught up t and
passed another boat, probably the six h or
seventh that they served in the same wa
"What boat was that, Dick ?" asked Mac-
Vain, looking up.
"Oh! a Cincinnati tub," replied Dick "the
Indian Queen."
"Something of a name," said MacVain.
"Yes it is," replied Dick; "from the way she
is running I guess she will get down to Or-
leans about a week after we do."
There were two men on board, who were
going to Texas to buy cattle. They were
farmers from Illinois, large and powerful men,
dressed in homespun. They had already made

several successful trips and were now return.
lug with sufficient funds to buy a large drove
of cattle. Mr. Elder, th9 youngest of the two,
had seen much border service and had served
through the Mexican war; and the other, Mr.
Allensworth, was well suited in limb and
nerve to be his companion, in a business that
involved much danger, and many fatigues and
privations.
The boat was no sooner under way, than
Colonel Spades began to look about for part.
ners on the trip. Mr. MacVain, although ex-
tremely polite and courteous, was too digni-
fied and reserved to permit any show of famili-
arity; and Dick avoided his advances with
good nature excuses. The Colonel soon hit.
upon the two drovers, and by ingenious man-
ceuvering, before the first night was over, en-
gaged them in ~ game of cards, in which they
played against himself and the bar-keeper.
But they played too cautiously, never loosing
more than five or 'ten dollars at a sitting, and
the Colonel was constant in his endeavors to
get some of the passengers into the game in-
stead of the bar-keeper, with whom it was
evident he had a private understanding. rEhe
boat wa~ nearing Bayou Sara, and the Captain
said that they would be in New Orleans by
ten o'clock next morning. A' game of straight
poker was going on between the four, who'
usually played in that set, and several of the
passengers, Dick aild, Mr. MacVain, with the
rest were standing by watching the playing.
Later in the evening, the barkeeper was called
away, and Colonel Spades, looking up at Dick
said:
- " Take a baud, Mr. Cheerful."
"No, I thank you, Colonel, I'nuinot lucky in
such speculations."
"I guess you can play a 1)etter game than I
can," said the Colonel.
"I'm too near ~ said Dick, laughing,
"to commence a spree, a man within twelve
hours of home, ought to be sobering off."
"You'll do," said Mr. Elder, "come, take the
hand, and I'll see you through."
"That's a bargain," said Dick, taking a seat
at the table; "you must draw it mild, Colonel,
remember I am a green horn."
Colonel Spades was not pleased with the
ironical tone in which this was said, but with-
out answering, dealt the cards, and the game
proceeded. Dick played with less caution
than tho two drovers had been doing, and

once or twice was caught for a nice little sum.
He watched the game closely, and while he
took his losses with the best of good humor,
no movement of the plays escaped his no-
tice. This was done in a careless manner that
led the others of the party, as well as the look-
ers on, to believe that he was playing without
calenlation or management. It came to the
Colonel's deal, and emboldened by Dick's man-
ner, he put up a blind of twenty-five dollars,
at which the two drovers protested, and then
threw up their hands. The hand dealt to
Dick was a good one, and he continued play-
ing.
I'll see yo.u, Colonel, and go an X better,"
he said carelessly counting out the money.
"There's your ten, and twenty better," said
theColonel.
"And twenty better" said. Dick, perfectly
cool.
ri~liC Colonel very adroitly slipped a card oat
of his sleeve into his hand, and then watching
an opportunity, discarded one from those he
had previously held. This moi~ement was not
lost by Dick, bat he said nothing, and looked so
calm and indifferent, that Mr. MacVain, who
had also seen the trick, felt uneasy, and in a
~iuiet way, did his best to attract the"atteution
of Dick.
'1 see your twenty, and go you fifty better,"
said the Colonel. As he placed the money on
the table, and changed another card, and this
time he was observed not only by Dick and
MacVain, bat also by Elder, who at once deter-
mined to expose him. The Colonel had now
got his hand fixed to suit him, and inwardly
chuckling at his adroitness, he launched bold-
lyont.
"I'll see you, Colonel," said Dick, drawing
out a roll of money, "and go you fifty better', 1
"Well, I declare," said the Colonel, elated at
his success, "I'll go you a hundred better."
"And I sweep the boards," said Dick, suit-
ing the action to the words by drawing all the I
mopey over to his side of th~ table.
"What do you mean, sir ?" cried the Colonel,
springing up.
"When I play With an honest man," said
Dick, firmly, "if I lose, its all right, but
when I play with a scoundrel, I take all the
chances, and I never allow myself to be cheat-
ed, if I know it."
"I'll h~ve satisfaction, sir," cried the polo- I~
'ad, placing his hand under his coat, as if s'

1

feeling for a weapon; "give up the money at
once."
"When this little dog stops barking," re-
plied Dick, placing a pistol 'before him on the
table, "maybe P11 give up the money."
"Bravo, for you," said Elder, striking the
'table with his fist, "that ar's well said, fur I
see him change the cards with my own eyes."
"Oh, if every one is against me," said the
Colonel, looking around, "of course I can do
nothing-but I'll see you again when I can
have fair play."
'If you had knowumeasweflas you pre-
tended to," replied Dick, "you ~would never
have tried such a lame game on me-I've run
this river too long to be imposed on by such
child's play."
"I'll report you all over Orleans," said the
enraged Colonel, "as a cheat and braggart."
"Look yon, Colonel Spades," said Dick,
facing the gambler with a fierce, determined
look, "I know you well, and nothing you can
report of me will affect me in the least. All
I've got to say is that yew must be careful
what you talk about, for I'd just as soon give
you a dose of lead for breakfast as not. Be
careful who you trifle with, and never try to
gull an old Miss~issippi steamboat.man, nor
to bully him into silence when he catches you
trying to steal."
Colonel Spades' courage melted before Dick's
flashing eyes and menacing look, and he slunk
away to his stateroom, like a whipped cur.
It was abQut ten o'clock next day when the
boat reached the Stock-Landing, where Dick
~ot off, and took acab forhis own house, where
Lie was anxious to be once more. Mr. Mac-
Vain and the other passengers remained on
board until th~ boat landed them at the levee
below, where they were all much pleased to
Arrive.
Since he had left his home, Mr. MacVain had
jeen constantly iii search of the miming child,
fruitless search, full of disappointment, aux-
ety, and gloomy, prospects, and he felt a com-
)arative relief when he ox~ce more sutered
~ew Orleans.
CHAPTER XIII.
When Cecelia escaped %rom the crowd of
:ind-hearted men who had received her when
he defended from the burning building, she


A46

MARDI

scarcely knew what to do. Hecr clothes, ex-
cept the scanty covering that she had thrown
on when awakened from her sleep, were lost in
the fire, but fortunately her small eapital in
cash was contained in thepocket of the dress she
had saved. Not knowing where she was going,
except that she-was leaving behind the scenes'
which the experience of the last few hours had
made terrible, she started across the city, and
entering the ferry-boat, was landed in Jersey
City just as the sun began to illuminate theroll-
ing waters of the river she was crossing. Pass-
ing along the street, she attracted the attention
of a woman who was cleaning out the saloon
of a small public house. The woman looked
at her with much interest and seemed to be
kindly disposed, so that Cecelia, stopping,
asked her for a drink of water.
" Where do you come from I" the woman in-
quired as she handed her the drink. -
" I came from New York, but just now," an-
swered. Cecelia, humbly. "I came near ettng
burned up last night."
" Dear me! you don't say so!1" exclaimed the
woman, "was there a fire over there last
night I" .
" An awful fire, mcem," said Cecelia, "and
ever so many people burned to death."
"Oh! how terrible! And were 'you in it 7"
" I was in the fifth story of the building,
mnem," said Cecelia, in a weak voice, "and
was saved by the firemen."
" They are a noble set of men, a flue lot of
men," replied the woman. "Was it a tenement
house 7"-
" It was, mew," replied Cecelia, and I lost.
everything I had, but just the clothes I have
on my -back." .
" And they don't seem to be enough to keep
you warm."
"No, mew, they dqn't," said Cecelia-.
"Perhaps I have g t an old dress I can give
you," replied the woman; and so she went into
thehonse and soon returned with a dress, not
much worn, which she rolled up and gave to
the girl. 'Returning thanks= for her kindness,
Cecelia went on her way. She had now con-
ceived a new idea-a plan for replacing her
lost clothes, and spent th~ balance of the day
in begging from house to louse for old clothes-.
At each place she rehearse d the incidents of
the fire, with a cunning of position and a
pathos of expression, that would have been
creditable to her as an actress on the stage,.

eat on her journey., As she was returning to
the depot, the clerks in a small dry goods store
were trimming the doors.. She stoppedto look
in the window, and the young men, having
made a pile of blankets, finished it off with
three or four shawls. One of these, a dark
ground, with a bright red border and heavy
fringe, the girl admired very much. It was a
warm shawl, of fine quality, and shethought it
would be very comfortable while traveling.
Watching an opportunity, when the two clerks,
who were laughing and talking over some party
or entertainment which they had attended the
night before, were off their guard, she loosened
thie shawl from the rest, and, placing it under
her arm, she hastened 'hack to the depot, and
once more took her seat in the train. .
The cars were rapidly filling up ; porters
were~ running around in the mad endeavor to

"I hope I shall, sir. I don't want to stay
here, sir, because I have no friends here. My
aunt, that I lived with, died two months ago,
and I have had no home since, and I must get
out to my mother." g
"You are a very small child to start on such
a journey alone," said the conductor, after a
steady look at her, during which time he
seemed to be considering' 'ihat to do. "I sup-
posie you can't help being small, however, an~d
I admire your pluck, so you can go as far as
Philadelphia, I don't go any further."
At Philadelphia she went directly to the cars
for Baltimore. Before the train started the
conductor came round, and seeing her, a rough-
looking, poorly clad child, asked where she
ras going and if she had a ticket. To him shie
old the same story as to the warmer conduct-

a
a
d
r4
p

GRAS;                                                             A .TALE 01? ANTJ
In several places she received food, and in one do more than they could ; ladies were hurried
or two money. At night she' gathered up her in, some timidly, others boldly took their seats;
bundles, which she had left in different shops news boys were running about crying their
along her route, so that those from whom she papers, and the place was, for the time, trans-
begged might not know that she had any formed into a perfect pandemonium. The girl
thing more than what, covered her. Loaded looked out of the window. The preparations
down with these gifts, slhe sought an out-of-the- were nearly completed. A few last adieus
way inn, and took a room for the night, com- were being said, the freight was all in and the
plying with the rules of the place, by paying platform nearly deserted, when she noticed
in advance. Here she overhauled her bundles one of the clerks she had seen in the dry goods
and selected therefrom a very respectable as- store standing by the door ' and anxiously
sortment of clothing, for she had received not looking around, as if( in quest of some one.
only dresses, but cotton and woolen ndercloth Then he came leisurely towards where she
ing, stockings and even handkerchiefs. Some was sitting, and her blood almost ceased to
articles she cast aside as too much worn to be circulate as she imagined that he had recog-
kept, while others were too small to fit her.. nized her. As he advanced, his eye ran from
Having made up her bundle, she next turned car to car, and then he stepped quickly for-
her thoughts upon her future plans. What ward, as if he would enter the train, when the
should she do-,and where, should she go i bell rang and they moved away, slowly at first,
These questions she asked herself over and but with increasing speed, until the depot and
over again. To' return to New York seemed city were left far out of sight-.
almost impossible, after. the terrible scene of " Your ticket," said the conductor, stopping
the fire, and to go again to Boston, was not ~before her'.
'suitable to her wishes. After much delibera- " Please sir," she replied, ."I haven't got
tion, she resolved to try and beg her way to any.'"
the South, of which Jake had given so flatter- " The money, then," he said, shaking a roll
ing an account.         .of bills in a careless manner. .
The following morning she carefully fixed "I haven't got any money, sir."
up her clothes and started for the railroad "What are you doing here, then 1" he asked,
depot, where she loiterd around, watching for rather roughly. *
some one whose face would give her encour- " I wEnut to go South, sir, if you please. My
agement to speak.. After looking fior some mother, sir, is in New Orleans, and I want to
time without a satisfactory result, she placed go to her, and I haven't got any money."
her bundle on a seat in the Philadelphia train, " Do you expect to get to New Orleans with-
and went out again to procure something to out money 7" he asked.

or, but her story was not believed. The con-
ductor accused her of trying to run away from
home and ordered her off the cars. Finding
that prayers and entreaties were alike unavail-
ing, Cecelia left the depot, and sought a cheap.
place to stay all night. Here she remained
several days, and had almost determined to
give up the effort to get South, when she met
the conductor of the'Jersey road and told him
what had occurred. The kind-hiearted man
drew out of his pocket a time table card of his
road, and wrote on the back of it:
" The bearer of this; Cecelia Benson, being
without friends in this part of the country,
with the pluck and' perseverance of a true
American, has started on a journey to find her
relatives in New Orleans. -As she'has no
money, the gentlemen connected with the rail-
roads and other public conveyances on the
route, are requested to pass her free, and give
her such advice and assistance' as may be
within their power, consistent, with their
duties.      WILLIAM JONES, Conductor."
" There. sis, that will pass you plump into
the Crescent City," he said, " or I much, mis-
take the good feeling of our craft."
" Oh! thank you, sir," replied Cecelia, "and
I shall soon be with my mother again."
"I hope yotu may," he said, patting her on
the shoulder. "I sincerely wish you saecess.
Good-bye, and when you get down there drop-
me a line to let me know how you get along,"
"I will do it, sir. Oh, thank you," she said,
accepting the gold piece he held out to her.
The conductor's pass acted like a charm un-
til she reached the stage road, where she had1
to take a stage to cross the Alleghany moun-
tains. The coach was already filled with pas-
;engers and the agent said that she must wait.
4"How soon can I get on 1" she inquired.
"I'm not the proprietor," replied the man,
'if he was here he migh t send you on at once ;
s it is, you will -have to wait--I don't know
Low long, may be a week or two."
"Don't the stages run every day ?" she-
sked.
"Sometimes they do, sometimes every other
Lay," he replied,. " but dead-beads must .wait
until there's plenty of room when i'm around?'
" Don't you sometimes ask favors of this
oad?" she said, again showing the conductor's
ass,
"Well, suppose we do I" replied the man.

J3BELLUMI TIMES.

47


A TALE 01? AATVE BELL Uhf TJMEk3.
MARDI GBA~9;                                           had no trouble in keeping up with the coach, from which several zn~
"The next time you do so, will you wait a as far as the eye conid see in all directions,  and in fact were often far, in advance of it. to assail the driver wit]
week or two to get an answeiV' was covered with it like a pnre and spotless Night came on again, and they all kept their military descended from
The man looked at her for a few minutes, mantle, and as the sun fell on this shining our- places in the stage most of the time, butit was the door, announced to
surprised at her sharp reasoning, and then face, or here and there broke through the
laughingly said: "Well, you're a cute one. If openings, 'casting fanciful shadows on the so bitter cold that they suffered very much, could get supper here
you were a boy, you would make a bright ad- ground, the road now running along the banks althoUgh well muffled Up in heavy clothing, by a good fire-news wh
edition to Congress, or some other assembly of of a little stream, the frozen surface of which  shawls and blankets.        -   be suddenly deserte(l.
Next mo
the kind, when you grow up."             shone like burnished silver, o~ where, covered       rning the sun rose on a discontented,  The room which they
"lam only asking," replied Cecelia, "what by the snow, like beds of fleecy down, the worn-out company of travelers. The horses tu a plain Iflnnner, but
my friend Mr. Jones said would be readily road then turnir~g off into the deep forest, and were denounced as old and broken down) the ful. The fire-place wa
granted, and if it wasn't, that I should report again back to the margin of the stream, the contractors of the route were set down as old arrangement, in which,
and it was declared log at the hack, and
to ~                                     girl was' lost in silent admiration of the   fogies and speculators
"It is all right," answered the man, "these scenery and her face glowed with the pleasure that the accommodations afforded were a sham fronts supported by ti
little favors are usual from one route to an- produced by the novelty of her position and and an outrage. Cecelia and her friend,, the irons which were comm
other. I'll send you over tomorrow or by the ev4r changing par~orama before her.    stout, full-faced gentleman, by whom she sat fire snapped, cracked a
Monday, and in the meantime you can stay "A beautiful aisdromantic scene," said the old in the coach, were the most cheerful of the lapping the great back:
at my house, so there will be no bills to pay." gentle~ an, "how prettily the river winds company. This gentleman had traveled a chimney, sending forth~
"Let her come in here," said an elderly gen- through~ the woods yonder." great deal, and took the evil with the good in seemed more than usual
tleman, leaning out of the coach window, "we "Is tlat a river ?"~said Cecelia. "I thought a perfectly unconcerned manner, always having frozen friends.
can crowd a little. Let her come, she will not little streams like that were called brooks. some pleasant or interesting story to relate to
See, it i so shallow that the rocks stick up beguile the time, and Cecelia seemed to catch "It's mighty cold 'in
take much room and we' will be warmer for throng the ice, and I am sure if there was no some of his good nature. When night came. into something like a
sitting close together."
"If there is no objection," said the agent, ice I 00 ld wade across it without wetting the again the weather had become more intensely a
approaching the stage, "I would be very glad tops of my gaiters."                    cold, and the Passengers huddled clone to-  tamped his feet on the
"Nevertheless, it is a river," replied her  gether, Wrapping their shawls and blankets up the warming process.
about their limbs, and putting into use every this," said the ldl~'
to have her go."                         companion, "and nearer the sea is a noble   article that wotld add to their comfort.  though maybe this'll
"There was no objection, and so Cecelia was one, too. It is one of the most famous in our                                               ano~,a,
placed in the coach beside the gentleman who country and holds a bright place in our early  They'll have sharp eym that ever catch me
in such a box ngain,~~ said one gentleman. "I wouldn't live on th
had spoken in her favor. The driver cracked history."
his whip, an4 away they went, drawn by four "Yes-does it I" said Cecelia, not caring to "~ never was so hungry in my life," said the second grumbler, tni
good horses, which, being fresh,'traveled the show her ignorance of history by venturing to another. "That fellow said WO would get get them oft; "if I was
first few miles at a good pace. In those days a name the stream.  '                  supper at six o'clock, and it must be ten now."  "Wa-at I calkerlate
r this," sai
trip across the mountains to Pittsburg was "Yes, this is the Potomac, famous in song and "I think he ought to drive faster," said a wus places nu
quite a tedious journey, and consumed from story,~~ he replied, "on the banks of which li ttle lady, in a gray woolen shawl, with a little miffed at the aspei
three to ten days, according to the state of stands the capital of out country, and around big tippet around her neck, "people could al-' tive place. '~ You'd like
the roads. It was through a bleak and cheer- which romance has thrown some of her most  most walk as fast as we are going."  here awhile.
"It is a perfect shame," said the first gentle-  "You are right, landlo
less country, where there were few marks of enchanting legends."
the progress of civilization. The road ran The first day passed thus pleasantly,, some- man; "they advertise it as the best route in man; then, turning to ~
through 'valleys overshadowed with gigantic times ia conversation and at others in silent the United States, and I am 'sure it is the you ever drink any whisi
trees, or lined with deep, impenetrable forests, meditation. At night it was extremely worst."
of vines, briars and brush-wood, interspersed cold, and the stage tossed about so that "I don't think the road is as bad as the one question.
with groves of young trees; now it toiled up a none of the party could sleep much. The between Chicago and Peoria," said Cecelia's "Well, you had better
steep, mountainous pass, ran along th~ edge of next day the niountains became more abrupt friend. "This is a poor season of the year to "I guess not, sir, I 'don
some high precipice, and descended into the and the horses toiled and struggled up their  trav~ul for pleasure."            taste.'~
valley again with an abruptness that rendered sides, making but little progress. At regular "PMasure !" answered the other, "there's no "Taste! why, it will
it difficult for the horses to keep their feet, or stations the horses were changed and the  such thing on this route."     candy," he said,- laughin
for the driver to lock the wheels secure enough travelers were allowed time for meals, and on "I have no doubt it is a pleasant trip in sum- confusion, "if they do~
to keep the stage fromrunning down the team. such occasions Cecelia's little pocket money ntier," replied Cecelia's friend, "when the roads living in this country, th
Aa they were driving up the valley, Cecelia, enabled her to purchase what she wanted, and' are good, the forests covered with verdure, the whiskey is, and keep it, tc
who had been raised amidst the din- and bustle procure refreshments with the rest. Oa the brooks running, and all nature rejoicing." take a good punch, it wi]
of a great city, regarded everything with in- road the passengers frequently got out, and "I'm glad you can imagine such~ scenes," life into you, and be pleas
terest. There had been a very light fall of walked, both for the purpose of reducing the said the first, "for myself I don't think-" "Well, sir, I suppose so
snow, and the branches of the trees which load, and to keep themselves warm. Progress The stage made a sudden dash forward and "Of course! now, that's
then steppe
overhung the road almost forming a canopy, to the poor horses was so difficult that they     d before a common country inn, bring a light whiskey pun

sn came out andl)egan
h questions, That dig-
his box and, opening
the travelers that they
and warm themselvea~
ich caused the coach t~
entered was furnished
look~~d neat and cheer-
s a great, wide-jawed
ras placed one immense
pile of smaller ones in
e old-fashioned and-
on in those days. The
nd roared the flames,
log and leaping ~ip tl~e
a heat and a glare that
ly pleasant to our half
these parts," said the
party, getting thawed
pleasant mood, as he
oaken floor to hurry '
d it a heap colder nur
nsilinggood~naturedly~
to commence with."
o top e" this hill," sai4
~ging at his gloves ts~
paid for it."
there's a mighty site
d the landlord, just &amp;
rsions cast on his na-
it better ef you were
rd," snid the cheerful
celia, he asked, "did
my ?"
led, surprised at the
take~a little," he said.
't knew how it would
be fine, bette? than
g at the little girl's
a' t have, very good
ey know w~at good
so. Come, you better
II warm you up, put
sant to taste."
sensible. Landlord,
ch~ have it hot an&amp;
7


nicely ~easoned, and fetch one for me-only
you need not mind about making it light."
The punches were brought, and Cecelia
sipped at hers and then made a wry face, as if
she did not like it.
"Come, now, that will not do,"' said her
friei~d, "try again, it will do you good, a
~nodera1~e amount of the real Virginia moun-
tain de will hurt nobody."
Ceceli tasted again, then a little more, and
again, i ntil her glass was empty. After a
while I ey had supper, a good, substantial
meal, w 1 and cleanly gotten up, such as the
country nus of America used to furnish before
railroad and telegrc~phs were so common, and
civilizat on and refineimient were so generally
diffuse 3d ver the count my. Instead oi~ the vil-
lainous oot water, ton~,h beefsteak, dry look-
ing turkey, sour bread andindigestable dough-
nuts of the railroad hotels of to-day, Vhey had
good amber~colored coffee, smoking hot, with
real cream in it, biscuits, hot and light as a
feather, fre~h butter, sweet and good, chicken,
' fried nicely brown, with a ri~mh gr&amp;7y, broiled
vensi~n, with the natural flavor preserved in
it, and that once never' missing, now seldom
'seen, dish, pork and hominy, which was gotten
up in a style that would have cast no Blot on
the reputation of the cook. Ample time was
allowed for the meal, and when it was over
the travelers returned to the sitting room.
"Now, then, gentlemen and ladies," said the
driver, "we are all ready."
"You're not going on to-night," said the
head grumbler.
"Yes, sir, that's my orders," "replied the
driver, "and besides there's no telling how
soon there may come a storm, and I don't want
to be snowed in."
Taking another look at the comfortable fire
and a last warming of toes, the passengers re-
sumed their seats in the stage. They were so
r~.ucb fatigued with their long journey that
neither the noise of the stage, or the roughness
of the road kept them awake. The coach
rolled forward, then righted up, pitched all on
one side, nearly turning over, and the next
turn would bring the other side over, and the
passengers were thrown first one way and then
another, pushed into a jumble in one corner
and then back again. Through all this they
slept, only waking up for a moment, when some
extra great lurch was made by the vehicle.
The muornin~ of the fifth day brought them to

'the end of the stage route. Before separating,
Cecelia's friend, to whom she had related the
same story that she told to Conductor Jones'
with such improvements as suggested them-
selves to her mind, endorsed the conductor's
pass, adding' a request that all who could as-
sist her on ~he journey would do so. The name
he signed t~ this was one of the most popular
and belove ~l in the western country, and since
has received the nation's honor and reverence,
although 4se bearer of it has bee~a "gathered
to his fathers."
~At Pittsburg Cecelia applied to the captain
of the Indian Queen, a small boat, which was
advertised to leave for New Orleans immediate-
ly. After reading her pass and the endorse-
ment of it by her late fellow-traveler, the
captain gave her permission to etime on board.
It was so late in the season, he said, that he
was fearful that his boat would get frozen
in before they reached a warmer climate , and,
as he had a good lbad on board, he left that
evening. After 'a trip of eleven days, the good
boat arrived safely, and, with twenty-five cents
in her pocket, Cecelia landed to try her fortune
in the Crescent City.
ChAPTER XIV
Mary returned to her home with a sad heart,
for there was no one there to welcome her, and
cheer her life with love and kindness. The
many privations that she had borne, the ta ski
of work that she, although tender in years~
had performed; her perseverance in the en-
deav~r to earn the little money that had been
their main support, nud her denial of all
pleasure and amusement to herself, she had
felt a pleasure, because they added to the couP
fort of her who had been in all things a kind
and 1~ ving mother. But that support was now
gone, or, although her mother had been feeble,
and i~nable to do much, her presence corn-
mand~ d respect for the house, her i ufluence
was t~e tie that held them together as a fami.
ly.  L~he house must now be closed, the furni-
ture sold to pay the rent and funeral expenses
and she 'must go out into the world to seek mm
living amongst strangers. Mrs. Boddice, had
remained behind, while the others followed
the corpse to the city of the dead, and when
Mary returned, all traces of the sad event had
been removed. The furniture stood in its no

M441fDI GRAS;

A TALE OF AlYTE J~J&amp;LL UM fUMES.                          01
oustomed arrangement and shone with the by, when I'd be getting feeble-and my health
brightness of recent dusting and cleaning, is not very good, anyhow-it might chance
The geraniums stood in the nearly closed win- the ebiel would mind the day' I was good to
dews, the books lay on the centre table, as hor, and be kind to me in the day of trouble.
they had always lain, the sea-shells ornament- What will I do? Start her in a little store of
ed the sides of the' hearth, everything was her own? No, no, that will not do. She's
placed with careful attention to their former young and must have some education."
positions, that the house might look natural In this way, he talked to himself all the af-
to the sorrowing child.
When she entered the parlor, the feeling of ternoop, hardly able to decide what.course he
desolation became more oppressive, there was wouVd pursue. Mr. Sellwell tried several times
engage his
a solemn stillness in the room, a cold, cheerless to  attention, but without' success,
and finally gave it up, saying that "Old Peter
feeling in the air, a dark mist hovering aver
everything, the mysterious spell that bind~ the was either in love or gone clean daft, and in
heart, nud fills every movement, thongiit and either case it was a hard matter for the old
action with thrilling, divine emotions, when fellow."
within 'the circle of home, was broken, and the In the evening 'Mr. Droll 'got off early, and
objects once loved, admired and cherished, had after calling at his boimrding house, went over
now lost their charm, and were but so many to see Mary.
objects to remind her of the hopes, of the past 1' "Well, Mary," he said, "what would you
now dead forever. This was t~ be her last ike to do ?"
night in the od place, tor she could not bear . "I do not know what I shall do, sir," she
to remain there alone.' Mr. Droll, had volun- replied. "I suppose I can make a living selling
leered to dispose of the fur~iiture and g~t a fruit. Sometimes I have made out very well
place where she could board, and was to re- at it."
turn in the evening to tell her what arrange- "Yes, that's ~ he replied, "but don't
ntents'he had made. When he went b~mck to you think if you could go to school 'that you
the store, the subject was uppermost in his would like it ~
mind, and in the intervals between waiting on "Oh! Mr. Droll, 'bow can I go to school,"
customers, while re-arranging his stock, she replied; "mother said often that when her
he turned the matter over and over, forming health improved I should go to school, but-"
now one plan and thea another. He had be- The memories of the past that crowded upon
come deeply interested ha the child, and was her were toe much for her young nature, and
anxious to do for her somnetbing that wouM be she gave way to her long pent-up feeling in
a lasting benefit. He was a quiet, unassuming bitter, scalding tears. They were the first
nman, kind and just to all with whom he came that she had shed since her mother had blessed
in contai~t, and, although economical in his her with her dying words, and now it seemed
own expenses, was liberal towards those who as if her whole fiame was convulsed, as the
needed, and in his judgment Were worthy of deep sorrow of her heart came forth in strong,
assistance.                             impassioned sobs.   Peter had seen ladies
"If she is left 'to herself-that will not do- angry because goods were too high for them,
she is too handsome a child to be left to street sorrowful for the want of money, indignant at
peddling-no, no, she would become the dupe fancied slights in the store, proud, haughty,
of some villian. True, it will be expensive to dignified, angry, all this he had seen with the
ne, but what do I live for. My brother has customers in the store, or the ladies at his
his f~imily around hini, and with mother in boarding house, but to ,real sorrow and grief
the old home in Aberdeenshire, they are com- he was a stranger. He could do nothing now,
portable and happy-please God, I'll take a but offer gentle remonstz'ances and kind words
walk in them, some day, ~ an inter- of consolation and reassurance. Her tears
eruption would occur, and after the customer were a relief, and when the fit subsided, she
was gone, he would return to the subj~ct. "I was more calm and confident'than she had yet
am getting too old to care to marry, and why been-a change that pleased Mr. Droll
shouldn't I take care of this bairn, its no good much.                      very
laying the money by to rust-perhaps by-and-  "Come now, cheer up~~ he said, "you sbal1


52

not suffer while I can earn money, and you
shall ~o to school too."
are very kind, very indeed,"~aidMary,
with a decision far beyond her yeart, "but I
must darn my way through the. world."
"That sounds strange in a little child like
you," ho replied, "and I beg of yen to banish
the idea at once."
"Mother taught me much, Mr. Droll," she
said, "and by reading I have learned a great
deal, and I am much better advanced than you
think."
"So much the better," replied he, "you can
board where I do-Mrs. Reed told me this
evening that she had a room you could have,
and there is a very nice school near by, where
you can attend-you will be comfortabIC~and, I
trust, happy."
"But the expense would be heavy' she re-
plied, "and I would netlike to tax your friend-
ship so much."
"Never think of that," he replied, "sure I
have some little money laid up in the bank,
and I am earning more than my expenses-
what is the value of money if we Can not do
good with it?"
"Indeed, sir, I thank you," she said earn'~st-
ly, "but I cannot accept your offer and allow
you to spei4 your savings in that way."
"I tell you, Mary, I do not need the money,
and I am sure I could make no better use of
it than in giving you a chance to get-an edu-
cation, that will fit you for that struggle with
the wor-id which will come soon enough. Say
no more on the subject but consider it settled
that you are to come over with me."
"But Mr. Droll, just think-"
"Nay, now, it is my wish," he said, " and in-
stead of saying Mr. Droll, you may call me
Uncle Peter-just think, for a moment, how
comfortable you will ~
"If I could hope to ever repay you,~~ she re-
plied, "it would be different, but to be so great
a tax on y~i, and never make any return for
your kindness would be too much."
As she stopped speaking, Philip Cummings
came in, and greeting them kindly, took a seat
near them. To him Mr. Droll now appealed
for support of his proposition.
"I want Mart to board at Mrs. Reed's afld
go to school for a while," he said to Philip,
"and I will pay the expense. I have no one
but myself to te~ke care of now, and I would
be glad to have her do it."

"My dear, kind friend," skid Philip, enthu-
siastically shaking Mr. Dro~ l's hand, "this is
generous, indeed, and the best arrangement
that could be made."
There now !" exclaimed Mr. Droll, tri-
umphantly, "didn't I know it? Now you see
m~r plan is endorsed by Philip."
The proposal suitc(t Mary ver~' well. Mr.
Drqll had gained her confidence and esteem by
his uniform kindness, and she was ambitious
o( an opportunity to improve her mind, but
her mother had impressed4 upon her the idea
that it was mean and degrading to accept
favors from strangers, it was like taking chari-
ty, instead of working for what she wanted.
"Your offer is very k~nd," she replied, "but
mother always taught me it was more honor.
able to get a living by labor, even though it
was scanty and poor, than to depend upoi'
stran gers.~~
"But I am no stranger," urged Mr. Droll, "I
was a friend of your mother's, and I am sure,
if she was living, she would approve of your
going under my care. I have no relative in
this country, and am able to pay the little ex-
pense that your schooling will be. I am only
doing as I would wish some one else might do,
if a sister of my own was left unprotected. As
for your paying me, you can do that in being
kind and good, and persevering in your studies,
as fol' the money, the satisfaction of doing
that which I believe is right will be a daily
recompense. You must urge no more ex-
cuses, come with me, go to school, and excel
all your companions in your classes, and you
will always find a good frk:~d in Uncle Peter."
"I am sure our good friend is right," said
Philip, '~ and I hope you will accept his offer."
"It will lie a very great satisfaction to me,"
continued Mr. Droll. "Your mother I esteemed
very highly, she was a lady of fine feeling,
sensible and good, and to take care of her only
child, and assist 'her on the road of life, will
be a constant pleasure."
"I hope I appreciate your kindness," replied
Mary, "and I understand the many advantages
that I shall enjoy ur'4er your protection and
care. It may be that some time in the future
I will be able to reward you, at any rate I
I will do the best I can to please you by atten.
tion to my studies."
"That is well said," replied Peter, his face
beaming with pleasure, at his triumph, "1 am
sure you will do admirably."

4                                                                                                    V.

53

"So she will, I know," said Philip, equally
pleased that the difficult problem was solved,
"and it will be a step she will never regret."'
They conversed long on the plans for the fu-
ture, and were equally well pleased with each
other. Mrs. Beddice sent her servant girl over
to sleep in the house and keep i~tary company~
a thoughtful attention that settled another
difficult question for them.
On the following day Mary removed to Mrs*
Reed's, taking with her a small trunk of cloth-
ing and a few articles that she did not wish to
part with. The remainder of the contents of
the old home was disposed of by Mr. Droll,
who charged himself with the settlement of
the whole business. Mary at once entered
school, with instructions to the principal from
Mr. Droll that she should enjoy every facility
for improvement, as he was ~yillingto stand all
reasonable expense in the mi~tter of hei educa-
tion. At first Mary took up only the lessons
common to an English school, but in a short
time French, music and embroidery were added
to these. In all of these, except French and
needle-work, Mr. Droll was well versed, and
spent his evenings in assisting her to perfect
herself in the tusks assigned to her. Philip
was a frequent visitor, and joined with interest
in the conversations that their occupation
brought up.
CHAPTER XV.
After returningher thanks to the Captain of
the Indian Queen, Cecelia stayed out into the
city to find some cheap place to live in. The
little child dressed in odd fitting clothes, with
the great shawl wrapped around herd and her
bundle of clothes under her arm or on her
shouldem~, attracted much attention a~ she
trudged along the streets, looking curiously
around at everything that was new or inter-
esting to her Many people stopped to look back
and wonder who the strange young creature
was, and, once or twice, some kind hearted
person, thinking that she probably belonged
to semi' epsigrant train; and had lost her way,
spoke to her, inquiring where she was going.
Once a round faced, good nature looking gen.
tleman, took the cigar from hi~ mouth as he
was passing, and, smiling pleasantly, was
about to say something to her, when another
gentleman came up, and greeting him with

MABDi UBA s~;

A L4LJJ? OF AATTE BELL Uilf TLIfES.

friendly warmth, began with "'Pen my soul,
Dick, I'm glad to see you back! When did you
get home T flow have you been ~ and the two
passed on, chatting pleasantly together. At
last she found herself on Chartres street, then
the street for dry goods, millinery and fancy
articles. A few steps from Canal street she
stopped to admire the goods displayed in the
window of a- large dry goods store, and w~s
wishing that she had plenty of money to buy
some of the silks and other pretty articles,
when she observed a lady coming down the
store towards her. She was tall and queen-
like in figure and carriage, her luxuriant hair,
richly black and fine, was combed in bandeaux,
her features were beautiful and regular, her
eyes were black, full and sparkling, and. her
faqe, a little pale, bore an expression of digni-
ty and refinement, that commanded respect
and admiration from all beholders. The clerk,
who had politely followed her to the door,
bowed as shepassed out and said
"Good evening, Mrs. Macourty.~~
Cecelia thought that she had never before
seen, a lady so beautiful, and the pleased ex-
pression of the child's face must have~been
noticed by the lady, for she stopped a moment
to look at the strange figure, and then went
over to where the girl was standing. They
stood there silent for some minutes, when Mrs.
Maaourty asked her if she thought of making
a purchase.
"I wish I had the money," Cecelia replied,
"to buy that green silk, its so pretty."
"Yes it is," said Mrs. Macourty, looking at
the queer costume and large bundle of the
child's , "whore are yen going?"
"I don't know, ma'am."
"Where do you live I"
"I don't live any where, now," replied Ce-
celia, looking up into the sweet face that bent
over her, "I just come here from New ~
"From New York !" exclaimed Mrs. Macour-
ty, "and all by yourself, or had you friends
with you V"
"No nia'am, I didn't have any one with mc."
"Why did you come here, so far awy from
your home I"
"J have no home there neiV," said Cecelia,
"my mother is here, and I come to look for
her."
"You come 1o look for your mother? Well I
hope you may find her," as she said this she
turned as if to go away, and then, after some


154                        MARDI GRAS;

thought, she continued, ", where are you going
to stay to-mnghti
" I don't know ma'am, I haven't found any
place yet." .
Mrs. Macourty thought of the many evil
ways that were open to such an unprotected
child, of the rebuff and scorn she might meet
in seeking a lodging place, and then said :
" Come with me, child,' and I will give you
shelter for to-night."
The, girl accepted the invitation without
hesitation, and they crossed Canal street
again, to take an omnibus for up town. Noth-
ing much was said luring the ride-Mrs. Ma-
courty was thinking of the little ones at home,
Annie, a bright eyed child of six; George, a
bonncing boy of four, and Idlaggie a rosy
checked cherub of two years of ago.- These
had cone to comfort her, and fill her heart
with love and her mind with anxious care,
since the loss of her first child. But all their
smiles and winning ways could not sever her
thoughts from the darling, 'who had been so
mysteriously snatched from the home-circle.
Years had passed, years of doubt and hope, of
anxious inquiry and earnest prayer, and the
grief of that loss was as fresh and fervent as
when it first occurred. Mr. Macourty felt the
blow terribly, but he-was in the whirl of a
successful business, and the reasoning of
friends turned his mind to other subjects, or
persuaded him, as he endeavored to convice
his wife, that the child was, dead. But a
mother's. love is deep and lasting ; no reason
will sway it, no time blot it ot; even though
repelled and scorned it turns again and again
to-its idol. Mrs. Macourty would have been
happier if she had known that her little one
was dead ; then her heart would have turned
to the little green mound, or the marble, tomb
that hid from, her the object of her love, and
her grief would have been relieved by the cer-
tainty that before the Thirone of Grace one
angel voice was pleading for her. No reason-
ing could persuade her that the child was
dead. For days and weeks the question was
ever present to her, " What is 'she doirgg ?"
Visions of the dear babe, growing up in want,
ignorance, amidst crime and misery, without
the knowledge that there was a God, or that
sin brings degi'adation, would haunt her mind
and hang over her life like a pall. And as she
rode homeward with her little stranger, she

Wondered if her Cecelia had fallen that low,
nd for the sake of the absent child she re-
solved to aid this young wanderer ia her
search for her mother.
At the gate they were met by the children,
who were delighted to see their mother home
again, and Annie shook hands very agreeably
with the little stranger, and volunteered to
show her all the toys and make her comfort-
able. Maggie, with her sweet face full of mnerri-
ment, came laughing and'shouting "Me appee,
mamma, me appee." ,
" Yes, darling, I brought you an apple,'"
said Mrs. Macourty, catching her in her arms
-and kissing her. She was so like her lost
baby, in her looks and her childish ways, that
her mother was constantly reminded by her
of little Cecelia. .
After laying asid her street dress, and ar-
ranging her toilet, she returned to the sitting-
room, where Cecella and the children were
busy inspecting the playthings that Annie had
brought out.
" Who did you live with in New York?" Mrs-
Macourty inquired.,,
" I lived with a lady named Brown," replied
Cecelia, "but I did not hear from my mother
for more than a year, and so I came out here."
" What is your name in Mrs. Macourty had
been too busy with her own thougl~ts to ask
the question before.
" Cecelia,!" exclaifmed Mrs. Macourty, start-
led by the coincidence of the name.
" Yes, ma'am, Ceceha. Benson. My father
died when I was very young, and my mother
had to work very hard for our support."
Mrs. Macourty was reasured by this appar-
ently straight and circumstantial story, The
excitement was all gone, and although she
wondered at the strange accident that should
bring to her home, one of the same name and
about the same age as her own lost child, she
did not doubt the story at all.  .    -
in the evening Mr. Macourty returned, and
was met with kisses and loving words by his
wife and children. He had grown stouter
than when we last saw him, wore a heavy
heard, and looked more settled and manly,
but the seven years had improved his looks,
for he seemed younger than before. His wife
told him the stranger's story, and dwelt much
on the fact that her name and age- were the
same as that of the child they had lost,"

5A

A TALE OF ANTE BDsLLUM TIMES.   ~     5

" Youa don't think that is our child I" said
he-.
" Oh! no, George, not at all," replied 'Mrs,.
.-Macourty, " she says her mother is living in
this city. No I did not think that-but she is
so poor and friendless, I-I thought-" here
she pansel.
" Well, my dear, what did you wish I"
" I thought that we might let her stay here
for ah'il ," she said, "until she can find her
"ut as you like," he replied, and so the
matter was settled.
After supper the little ones were sent to bed,
and Cecel'a Was placed in a small room iiext
to their's, with a door connecting the two
rooms, thr ugh which she watched the other
children as they prepared for bed. Annie
knelt before an altar ornamented with a small
-statuette of the Blessed Mother and child, and,
blessing herself, said her prayers, after which
she taught Maggie to do the same. George
was less reverential in his devotions, dropping
on his knees before the altar, he made a very
large sign of the cross, and rattled off his
prayer as if he were racing against time. This
was a new and novel sight to Cecelia, whose
only pi-ayer was the Obr Father, which she
knew but imperfectly, and had seldom used.
Mrs. Macourty soon came upstairs, however-,
and requested Cecelia to come and say .he'r
prayers. Cecelia was good at imitation, and
she now went forward, knelt before the altar
and blessed herself as nicely as if she had been
used to doing so all her life. She then recited
the " Odr Father," the mistakes she made were
kindly corrected by the lady. Next morning,
as they were seated at the breakfast-table,
Mr. Macourty asked Cecelia if the lady wa's
kindi that she had lived with in,.New York.-
" Oh ! no, sir," she replied, with a well-acted
shudder, "she used to beat Sme, and treat me
very bad."
" .Poor child, how you must have suffered,"'
said Mrs. Macourty, "what a terrible thing to
think of leaving a child to strangers." e
-" Yes, ma'am, she used to vent all her bnad-
ness on me," replied Cecelia, looking mnourn-
fully around, "ebut that was not the worst." "
"What else was there ?" asked Mr. Macour- i
ty, in a dotibtful tone, for the stranger had not
made a very favorable impression on him.  s
" They were Protestants, sir," said Cecelia,"

'
55

with an injured look, "and would not allow
me to go to our church."
"She would not .let you go to mass ?" said
he, still more doubtfully. .
"No, sir," she replied, "she wanted me to be
a Protestant, and used to whip me when I
asked leave to go to church, and so I ran
away."
" She had no right to interfere with your
religion," said Mrs. Macourty, who believed
Cecelia, and admired her courage in adhering
to her church.
A few days were spent in looking for Cece-
lia's mother without any thing being heard of
her, and' then Mrs. Macourty said it was a
shame that the girl should stay at home idle.
Cecelia was sent to a private school in the
neighborhood, kept by a lady of much experi-
ence and ability, who promised to see that the
girl was well cared for and aided in her studies.
When she returned from school in the even-
ings, after having dinner, she Was allowed a
time for play, and was then called in to pre-
pare her lessons for the next day. But Cecelia
did not fancy such employment, and, instead
of studying her lessons, she looked at the pic-
tures, played with her slate and pencil, and
idled her time, except when Mrs. Macourty sat
beside her and watched what she was doing.
When visitors came, as they did almost every
day, she was called in to see them, and intro-
dluced as Mrs. Macourty's adopted daughter.
Mrs. McDonald called one day, and took a very
kind interest in the young girl, asking her
questions about school, play hours, about her
books and coianionis, and spoke to her very
encouragingly and with much approbation.
"You lbave adopted her ?" said Mrs. McDon-
ald, after Cecelia had left the room. " I notice
she calls you ma."
" Yes, we intend doing all we can for her,"
said Mrs. Macourty. -" Poor thing, she seems.
to have no friends or relatives, and so I told.
George I was goinrr to make her one ef the
family, and he replied that I could do as I
iked."
" Robert says that I may adopt a chid when-
v-er want to do so," said Mrs. McDonald,
'and I have often thought seriously of doing
t, but have found no one that I liked exactly."
" I am afraid that, if you wait until you are
united exactly," said Mrs. Macourty, smiling,
you will be a long time making a choice. We


t

all have our faults, but if you took a child I
think you would soon come to love so well
that you would not part with it."
"Oh! I certainly intend to do so," replied
Mrs. McDonald.
On another afternoon, as Cecelia sat thumb-
ing her books, Annie came in, her face full of
pleasure and her eyes dancing with excitement.
"Come into the parlor, Cecelia," she said,
"come into the parlor ~
"No, I won't," replied Cecelia.
"Oh! yes, do I" said Annie. "Mr. MacVain is
in there, and be is such a nice gentleman. He
always brings us something good, pictures or
oandL~, or apples, or something good! Come in
now, quick !"
"I shan't do it, I tell you," replied qeeclia,
who was out of temper about her lessons.
Almost every day at school she woul4 get a
scolding about her lessons. The teacher ex-
cused her poor recitations for the first two or
three months, because she knew that the child
had Dot been used to confinement and study;
but when this time had passed she '~vonld
sometimes get out of patience, and such
scenes as the following occurred nearly every
'~Why, Cecelia, you do not know this les-
son," said the teacher. "Did you study at
ho~ne I"
"No, ma'am, I'did not."
"You did not! well, why not ~"
"I don't have time," replie~t Cecelia. "I
have to set the table, wash the dishes and help
with all the housework."
"You do? And Mks. Macouty does not tell
you to study at home 1"
"No, ma'am, she don't," replied Cecelia4 "She
says I must learn to york, so that I can sup-
port myself."
"That is all very proper," replied the teacher,
"but I don't see why she sends you to school,
if she will not allow you to prepare your les-
eons, at least partially, at home. But I sup-
pose she knows her own business."
Mrs. Macourty's store-room was well and
liberally supplied, and, as she had the most
implicit faith in the servants, it was seldom
locked. Cecelia saw this, and, al~hongh she
was given money to spend on toy~ and other
articles that children covet, she thought she
'would increase the supply. To do this she
'would take from the store-room a flew bottles
of wine, cordial or liquor, some soap, starch or

other articles, and, hiding them among the
bushes in the yard, she awaited a favorable'
opportunity, when she would take them out to
some corner grocery, and sell them for a quar-
ter of what they were worth. Sometimes she
told the keeper of the shop that her ma was
short of change, and sent her out to sell the
articles, and again she would say that her ma
had given them to her, and, as she did not
want them, she would sell them.
In summer she had two months' vacation,
and then returned again to school. After she
had lived with Mrs. Macour~ about ten
months, the time seemed too dull and inactive
for her, and she ran away. She had taken a
great fancy to Mr. and Mrs. Cheerful, and
went to their house. As an excuse for running
away, she told them that Mrs. Macourty did
not' give her enough to eat, that she had to be
a servant for the other children, and that she
had been frequently whipped in a cruel and
unmerciful manner. Mrs. Cheerful listened,
with wonder to the outrageous stories she told,
and did not know exactly what to make of it.
She had always thougl~t that Mrs. Macourty
and her husband were such good people. Mr.
Cheerful, when he caine home, was surprised
to find Cecelia there, 'and listened to her story
with ill-concealed doubt and anger.
"You must think we are fools," he said,
when she had finished, "to come here telling
me that story. Mrs. Macourty is a perfect
lady, incapable of harming anyone, or treating
anyone cruelly, and her husband is a fine, hon-
orable man. Come, you can't stay here. Get
ready and I will take you back there. If you
want to run aw~y again, do not come here."
Mrs. Mahourty had been in a perfect fever
all day about the child, and could not imagine
what had become of her. When Mr. Cheerful
brought Cecelia back again she was much
shocked at the tales she had been telling about
them, and asked why she had done so. Ce-
celia pretended to be very penitent, cried a
great deal,, and promised not to do so any
more. After this Mrs. Macourty took her back
again and the next day she returned to school.
The decided manner of Mr. Cheerful disap-
pointed Cecelia very much, and from that time
she avoided him and his family as much as
possible. She pronounced his singing horrid
squeaking, his conversation dull and ill-na-
tured, and d~iclared him the most disagreeable

66 '

9

56'                      MARDi UBAS~;                                           A IALE OF ANTE BELL UAL HAtES.           57

man she had ever met. She was not long,
however, in finding new friends outside of her
adopted home~ Mrs. Marie Le Crasseux was
the person to whom Mrs. Macourty gave all
her sewing that could not be ~done at home.
She was a woman much tinder the medium
height, small and delicately framed, pale and
thin, with large black eyes, the lustre of which
increased the unnatural appearance of her
thin lips, sunken cheeks, and sharp, straight
nose. She looked like a woman who would
faint at a spider and sink under the fatigue of
ascending one short flight of stairs; yet there
are probably few women whose lives are so full
of trouble and care, constant work, worry of
mind and wear of body, as this poor, broken-
spirited woman's 'was. She did much of the
sewing, especially the fine work of the neigh-
borhood, and long after the last omnibus had
rattled by on its way up town, after the last
straggler from the theatre or opera had sought
repose, and the carts 'and market wagons were
wending their way to a new day's business,
long after her liege' lord had been tucked into
bed and snoring, her needle was flying fast,
and night after night, by the dull and gloomy
light of her lamp, she pursued this weary,
lonely, unending work. She had a large
family, and her days were spent in cooking,
washing, ironing and mending for them, with
now and then a chase to this or that lady's
house to return finished garments or to get
new work. Some member of her family was
always sick, and requiring, medicine and at- 1
tension. With all these duties devolving upon
her, she, at least, might with much reason cx- 1
claim, "A woman's work is never done." Yet
she found time to attend church and perform
her duties as a Christian, was sometimes social 1
with her neighbors, and exhibited a wonderful 1
amount of hope and cheerfulness. Her hus- I
band was an amiable cross between' the tiger c
and the wolf. Mons. Antoine Le Crasseux was I
born in one of the border provinces ef France, s
and settled in New Orleans in early manhood. C
lie was the senior of his wife by fifteen years, ~
and exercised his authority as lord and master 5
ere the honey-moon had completed its first t
quarter. H6 was about five feet ten in height, I~
but stooped so that he looked much less than l~
that. Stooping forward, his shoulders were 0
rounded to almost a deformity, his head t
drooped until his chin nearly touched his u
chest, the long beard, which covered his hard, il

dry face, flowed almost to his waist, and his
black hair fell in a loose, uncombed shower of
"matted and combined locks" around his
neck and shoulders. He was no advocate of
the external application of cool, clear water,
often going for weeks without washing his
hands and face, while, as to bathing or clean-
ing his person, he often boasted that he had
not done so since leaving his native village.
Ho was a moulder and pattern maker in iron
work, very tasty and ingenious, a perfect mas-
ter of his profession, at which he found, in one
of the largest foundries of the city, constant
employment at the best wages. He was a
"Jack of all trades" with talent and capacity
sufficient to rank with the best workmen at
any of them that he turned his hands to. As a
carpenter, cabinet-maker, paper-hanger, up-
holsterer or decorative painter, he had worked
with success, at such times as the business of
the foundry would be dull, or when he, in a fit
of ill-temper,, would leave that place. With
all these advantages in himself as a workman,
and with a wife who drudged and toiled
steadier and more abjectly than any negro
cook in the city, he was always poor. His
family lived in the smallest, mosttumble-down
house, in a neighborhood of small, tumble~
down houses, and but for his wife's perseverance
in patching, mending, turning and darning.
they would have been continually in rags and
tatters. In his family wa~ included his nephew,
Felix Le Crasseux, a young man of about
twenty yeast of age, of medium height and
build, with long, sandy hair, a light beard of
the same color, ~a florid, badly freckled face
md grey eyes, over which hung shaggy, red-
lish brows. Some of his front teeth were
missing, and those that were yet left were
)adly decayed or covered with tartar. In
oint of cleanliness he was a little improvement
~n his worthy uncle, but scarcely enough "to
)rag of." With'this delightful family Cecelia
.oon became intimate, and spent many of her
evenings with them, relating her woes and in-
renting horrid tales of the persecution she
uffered in the family of Mr. Macourty. To
hese stories, hadehe dared brave her husband,
~[adama Le Crasseux would have given~the lie,
mt as he listened with satisfaction, throwing
ut exclamations, sometimes in Fr ~nch, some-
imes in English, of approval and encourage~
sent, sh~ kept silent, while the nephew, a
Lull, sleepy-looking fellow, half fool and half
8

57


knave, swallowed the whole as gospel truth.
After an evening spent in such conversation,
Felix would escort Cecelia back to Mrs. Ma-
vourty's, where she would greet everybody in
the most affectionate and confiding manner.
She was always careful, when retiring at
night, to kiss all the family, with mamAy de-
monstrations of love and respect, and when
in her room her Ave 3farias and Pater Nosters
were so loud and earnest that they could be
head by the passers in the streets. Thus the
second year and much of the third passed
sway when an old friend joined the family
once more4
CHAPTER xvx.
Two years had rolled by, and the autumn
frosts were once more giving the leaves a va-
riety of rich colors, and the winds, as they
ii whistled through the woods, were covering the
ground with a leafy carpet, leaving the trees
bare and cheerless. The travelers who had
thronged Saratoga, Newport, LongBranch and
through the Canadas were on the wing for
home. The western and southern merchants
had replenished their stocks with the latest
fashions and patterns of fall and winter goods~
and their grain, flour, pork, cotton, rice and
other products were now coming forward to
restore the "balance of exchanges.~m The
great American metropolis was daily becoming
more crowded and gay; those who left for dis-
tant homes being more than replaced in num-
bers by returning citizens and crowds of visit-
ors from all parts of the world. Oar old
friends, Barege, Muslin &amp; Co., bad been doing
their full share of the business of the city,
and, rich at first, were rapidly nearing the
point of immense wealth and influence. Philip
Cummings was now a juuior salesman, that
point where the occupant is neither one thing
or the other, now an office boy, then a messen-
ger, a salesman, and so on, fihlin~ all gaps that
occur. He was a favorite with the seniors of the
firm, who prophesied that he would be a bril-
liant salesman in a short time; but with the
junior, Mr. Crape, he was less fortunate, that
gentleman still keeping up an old grudge
against him. Peter Droll, kind-hearted, gen-
erous Peter, was rapidly going down hill in
health, and had been obliged to miss many
days from his work. The seniors of the house
manifested much interest in his case, because

he knew the business thoroughly and was a
valuable hand, but mainly, let us hope and be-
lieve, through kind and Christian feeling.
"Mr. Droll," Mr. Barege had often said, "you
must take care of yourself. Go down to my
house at Elizabeth. There's plenty of good,
fresh milk and butter, pleasant walks and
shady groves to loiter in. There's a good
team and a comfortable carriage always
at your service. Come, nQw, don't be foolish,
man,~ and shake your head 'at me. Got ready
and go over and stay three or four months,
just as long ~s you please. It will not costyon
anything, and you will be porfect~iy welcome."
"Look here, Mr. Droll," Mr. ~Iuslin would
sometimes say, and always kindly, "you are
not able to stand the worry an~ fatigue of
business. Take a trip off wost, ~r south, re-
lieve your mind of all care, go *h~re you will
s~e the most life and be comfortable. If you
run short of money, you know-w ~y just drop
a note to me privately and I'll lo~n you what
you want, and when you get back 4 few mouths
from now, you will soon catch up ~gain."
Amongst the clerks of the hous~ there was
much shaking of heads and regrets expressed
that Mr. Droll was "in a bad way."
"Look here, my Scotch Seminole," Sam Sell-
well would exclaim, in his off-band way, none
the less sincere in idudness and good feeling
than othei s who were more choice in their
wprds, "look here, Pete, you're trifling with
this thing too long. You don't hold a very
strong hand, and the first thing you know your
pile will be covered, and wl~en the game is
called, and you show your hand, you'll find old
Death holds all the aces, and there'll be no
show for you at all. Take time now to roen-
perate and you may euchre the old fellow in
spite of his cunning."
To all ".'~se friendly solicitations Peter re-
'turned cyasive answers, promising to consider
the matter. He was of a retiring nature and
feared that he would give trouble to others if
he accepted the advice given him. There was
another and stronger reason for his refusal to
go away. His ward, Mary Collins, was pro-
gressing rapidly in her studies, and stood
among the best scholars in the Institute,
where there many that were older than she
was. Her music was pronounced excellent,
and her voice was wonderfully clear, full and
melodious. She had carried off a majority of
the prizes at the last examination, and re-

A TA JiB OF ANTE BEJ2LU]I[ TIMES.

MARDI GRAS..
ceived the speciaL compliments of the examin- that had settled in his constitution, that fcL
ing committee. For years before his acquaint.. destroyer, consumption, which was slowly but
ance with Mrs. Collins, Mr. Droll had lived al- surely undermining his strength and bringing
most entirely secluded from society. He had him nearer to the grave. Mary watched him
few acquaintances, and these were among the with care and her heart was filled with ap-
~ea with whom he was thrown in contact by prehension on his account. S~e heard others
his business. He had found in Mai~y a respectful urge him to take a vacation from toil and aux-
and obedient child, careful to please him and iety, and often joined her solicitations to theirs-
attentive to his wants, especially of late when that he should do so.
he had been so unwell. His heart, which "What do you say, my little pet  1" he said
had been for years a stranger to finer feelings, to her one evening. "Do you want to get rid
found in her an idol in which all its store of of Uncle Pete 7"
love could be worthily bestowed. He loved " Oh, no, Uncle? it is not that," she replied.
her as a father or elder brother, and was never "You kno!r how badly I would feel to pait
tirep of hearing of her triumphs at school, or with you. But your health demands a relaxa-
her praises in the homes that they ~visited to.. tion and this is of the first importance to me
gather. Mary had joined the choir in the I c~tnnot bear to think of you working your
~eigl~boring church, where she was considered life away when a few months, perhaps only
a valuable assistant, and Mr. Droll always few weeks, would restore your health."
went with her to Mass and Vespers, and seated "And what would become of my little neice?"
himself In the gallery near by, where he could he inquired, as he kindly drew hack her long
not only hear the tones of her sweet voica, but curls, "what would you do while I was gone?"
might also watch her beautiful face, which "Don't think of thut, Uncle. I will get
seemed filled with inspiration as she joined along very well. I ama sure I can," she replied
with heartfelt devotion in the grand anthems
of praise, She had not been Ionj~ with the "I will try to get a class in the Institute o~a
choir before sho was given a leading part at music class. Believe me, the thought that you
High Mass la the ~Jredo, Gl~'k~, are relieved fro~n the worry and care of busi-
Agnus                        Offratory and ness, the hope of seeing you return improved
Dci, and at Vespers in the Magnifi cat. in health will give me strength to do any
Mr. Droll had been brought up a Presbyte- worlr."
nan, but was not dIsposed to interfere with "It will not do," said Mr. Droll. "When I
the religi9us preference of his niece, as he
called Mary, but encouraged her in performing go I must take you with me. I wrote to the
all her duties in the Church of her choice, folks at home that I was going to bring you
"It is bad, very bad, to see a man without a over there, and I have had three or four letters
settled religion," he often said, "but it is far since urging me to do so."
worse in a woman. Not that I think the obli- "In Scotland! Will you take me with you 7"
nation to worship God is an~ stronger on one eh~ eagerly ask~d.
than the other, but there is an ennobling in- "Yes my dear," he replied. "This is Oc-
fluence, a delicacy and refinement about a tober-well, by January I shall have money
truly pious woman that is beautiful to see, enough to go."
and which is felt and respected by the rough- "How much money f~o you require, Uncle?"
est of men. A woman without religion is like "I went down to see Captain Evans, of the
a vessel in a storm on a rocky coast, without ship Oakwood, to-day," said Mr. Droll. "ne
rudder or anchor, and is liable to be wrecked will take us over to Liverpool for a hund ~ed
at any time in the storms of passion and sin and twenty-five dollars, and for another h4n-
that are continually raging in the world." dred we can go from Liverpool to A~erde~n
If he left the city to go to Mr. Barege's coun- He leaves on Saturday of next week, and if I
try residence, or on a trip, as suggested by Mr. had sixty dollars more we would go, but lie will
Muslin, what would become of his neice? His leave again sometime in January, and then I
salary, he knew, would be suspended during shall he ready."
his absence, and he would be deprived of the "Go with him now, Uncle," she replied. "You
means of paying for her board and education, go and leave me here. I shall feel so happy
Therefore he straggled against the disease to knOw that I am not keeping you away from


those you love, and with whom your strength
will, no doubt, return."
"I should like to see the old home again,"
he replied, a slight accent of sadness in his
voice, "and if it is God's will, I shall dose soon,
but I cannot go without you. It will not be
long untilwe can go over together, and then-"
"Then what, Uncle Peter I" she said, seeing
that he hesitated to complete what he was say-
ing.
"You will be with our folks, and, if anything
happens me, you will have a good home, with
kind friends," he replied. "Brother John has
promised to lie a father to you, and if death
comes for me, I will feel tnore contented at the
parting."
"Don't talk about death, Uncle," she re-
plied, wiping away the tears that were filling
her eyes. "You will be strong yet, apd live
many a day to guide me with your wise ad-
vice, and cheer me with your words of kind-
ness.~'
"If it is God's will, Mary," he said, kindly
caressing her head. "I hope he will spare me
to see you comfortable and happily settled in
life, but it will do no harm t&amp; provide for the
worst, and so I feel that I must get homeY
The next day was a busy one at Barege,
Muslin &amp; Co.'s, and everybody about the place
was on the alert to fill the demands of the
throng of customers. A little past noon, as
Mr. Craps was standing near the lace depart-
ment, he observed Philip, who was showing
the shawls and sacks to a very stylish lady in
a dark brown silk dreqs, with furs and cape to
match. After the lady went out without buy-
ing anything, Mr. Craps came forward and
reproved Philip for Lrying to wait on the lady,
telling him that he should have called one of
the elder salesmen. While they were folding
up the articles to return them to the boxes
and shelves where they belonged, Mr. Crape
missed a shawl and asked Philip where it was.
"I don't see any such shawl here," said
Philip, turning them over and searching
througlj. the pile.
"It certainly was there a few minutes ago,"
replied Mr. Crape, continuing the search with
nervous anxiety.
" It may have been,, sir, but it is not here
now," said Philip.
"May have been !" exclaimed Mr. Craps,
getting angry. "Didn't you show a s awl
marked fifty dollars, withvine embroidery and
a large flower center, to that lady."

60

"No, sir, I did not," replied Philip,
"But I know you did, for I heard you say to
her 'fifty dollars,' and that was the only one
of that style at that price."
"I told her that the lace point was fifty dol-
lars," replied Philip, but I did not show her a
shawl at that price."
"You needn't try to get out of it in that
way," said Mr. Crape, who 'was by this time in
a towering passion.
"Get out of what I" said Philip, aroused by
this remark.
"Oh,.it is. a great deal more convenient,"
said Mr. Crape, sneeringly, "wben a young
man has a stylish lady friend to allow her to
steal a nice ~ha~rl than it is to buy one for her."
Without the least hesitation, before Mr.
Crape had finished speaking, P~iilip srtruckhim
in the face with all the force he was master of.
Before a second .blow could be struck by him,
or one returned by ,Mr. Craps, three or four
clerks 'interfered and separated them. The
event created a great sensation. Many of the
men rushed forward to see what was the mat-
ter, while those who remained in their stocks
eagerly inquired of others what was going on.
a fight within the sacred precincts of the
was something that few of them had
ever dreamed of; they were horrified at the
idea; and that one of the boys should dare
strike a member of the "firm," was even more
wonderful. The c~ilprits were ordered back to
the offlve, where both of the seniors were pres-
ent, and before this "high court" they were
at once arraigned.
"What does this mean, Mr. Crape? A nice
return for my kindness to you, Philip," said
Mr. Barege, turning from one to the other, "a
pretty state of affairs, indeed. A brawl, a
bar-room scuffle, here in the store, with a
crowd of customers present."
"What was it about, Philip I" asked Mr.
Muslin, who was perfectly eQol and quiet.
"What was it about I" Mr. Barege broke out
again, "that's the question. How dare you
kick up a row here ?"
"Mr. Crape can tell you all about it," said
Philip, motioning towards where that gentle-
man was standing silent and sullen.
"Well, sir, we are waiting to hear from
you," said Mr. Baregc~, turning to his nephew.
"I am going home to change my clothes,
and bathe my face," replied Mr. Crape, wiping
the blood from a small scratch on his cheek~

I

A TALE OF A'~TE J3ELLUM TIMES.

"when I get back I will answer your ques-
tion."
"Very well, sir, very well," said Mr. Barege,
"you can both go until this evening, and then
we will hear what you have to say."
"For myself," said Philip, stepping forward,
"I have very little to say. I am very sorry
the fuss occurred in your store, but if it was
to do over again, I should act as I have al-
ready done, and if we had not been parted I
should have done my best to give him a thor-
ough whipping. I shall not come back this
evening, as I have determined tp leave you, for
while I appreciate ymr kind r~ess and thank
you for it, I cannot live any lodger with him."
As he concluded, he pointed contemptuously
at Mr. Crape.
This was another surprise, and one that was
well founded, for Philip had been kindly treat-
ed by the senior partners, and if he remained,
had a good prospect as a salesman in the fu-
ture. After a short consultation together his
employers concluded that it would be best to
let him try for a time to get a situation else-
where, after which they had no doubt he
would be glad to return to them. His account
was niade out and Mr. Muslin, while paying
him the amount due him, offered his advice on
the course that he should pursue for the fu-
ture. Philip replied to him respectfully, and
with proper deference, and after saying good.~
bye to the seniors, and to some of the clerks
with whom he was on friendly terms he left
the store.
As he walked down Broadway, thinking 6f
the events of the day and forming plans for
the future, he saw two men standing on one
of the corners, engaged in earnest conversa-
tion, one of these looked so familiar, that he
soon remembered that he was Mr. MacVain.
As he came forward, Mr. MacVaiA said to his
companion.
"Another season spent in this fruitless
search! It does seem strange that no one of
her old companions has ever heard from her.'
"It is very discouraging, ~ replied
his companion. "I have watched for her in'
Boston, Albany, Philadelphia, all over, in fact,
and have been assisted by Betsy and two of
the best detectives in the country, all without
any success."
"This old detective, Joe Bodkers, that you
say is such a good hand, what does he say V~
inquired Mr. MacVain.

I

AlA EDI GRAS;

"Its a regular puzzler, he says," replied Mr.
Williams, "he thinks the girl ipust have died
from the effects of the fnght at the fire, or
from exposure afterwards, or may be that she
was not rescued at all.'
"As for that," replied Mr. MacVain, "we
have the testimony of Betsy, who is positive
that she saw her brought safely out of the
house."
"That's true, sir," said Mr. Williams, "but
if she was saved, where did she go to so sud-
denly? You know that is the last that was
seen of her."
"I have no doubt she was saved," replied
Mr. MacVain, "but where she has gone is a
mystery I hope we may yet unravel."
"Nothing will be left undone, that can as-
sist in bringing success," replied Mr. Williams.
"I think I shall go home next week," re-
plied Mr. MacVain, "these lon~ seasons, which
others devote to pleasure and recuperation,
hut which are times of racking anxtsty for me,
are wearing me out, and I shall hereafter,
make them shorter. I hope that you will per-
severe, and sodn meet with success."
During the latter part of this conversation,
Philip had remainedd at a respectful distance,
too far off to 'hear what was said, but as he
saw the stranger go away, and Mr. MacVain
turn to go down town, he stepped quick to
overtake him. At first, Mr. MacVain did not
recognize him, but when Philip told his nauie,
he was received in a very friendly and cordial
manner. During their walk, he related to ~lr.
MacVain much ot his life since his arrival in
New York, and expressed a wish to return to
New Orleans. His friend promised that if he
did do so he would aid him in procuring a sit-
uation, and offered to assist him with aloauo~
money to pay his passage. This Philip thank-
ed him for, but said it was not necessary as he
had saved enough from his wages, small
though they had l2~een, to enable him to return
to his native city.
When Mr. Droll returned that eveningg
to h~s home at Mrs. Reed's boarding house,
Mary met him at the door, and with a peculiar
look of pleasure, mixed with girlish mystery,
welcomed him after his day of labor and ex-
citement. After their tea, a meal served in
the plainest boardinghouse style, they returned
So the parlor, and Mary played for him some of
the fashionable airs of the day, then sang an
old Scotch favorite, which' he always admired,

61


and praised very much. But it was evident,
there was something on her mind, she had
some secret to tell, or some new triumph at
school to surprise her dear uncle with.
"What is it, Mary I" he said, as she left th0,
piano and took a seat beside him. "Another
medal at school, eli? You will lead them all
before long, I know you will."
"It is not that, Uncle," she replied, looking
wistfully into his face.
~' What then, dear I" he asked, with an en-
couraging look and smile.
"Shut your eyes and hold fast all I give
you," she said playfully, her fine blue eyes full
of anticipated pleasure. Mr. Droll complied,
and to his surprise received in his hand six
ten dollar gold pieces.
"Why child, what does this mean ?" he
asked, as soon as he had sufficiently recovered
from his surprise to speak.
"You-said, Uncle," she replied, "that if we
had sixty dollars, you would go with Capt.
Evans, and so I got you themoney.~'
"But how did you get it I" he anxiously in-
quired, "if by m~# refining and wishes to go
home, I have induced you to do anything not
strictly honest, or to beg or bemoan your-
self-"
"Uncle, uncle ~ she exclaimed, and her
beautiful face flushed with pain, that he
should have such thoughts of her, even for a
moment.
"Forgive me, Mary, I know that you are all
truth and honor," he said, as he looked into
her distressed face, "but I was surpmiscd that
you could get such a sum."
"The money came honorably into my
hands," she replied, "it is the last legacy ot
my poor mother, but had I prized it a thous-
and times more than I did, I would have part~
ed with it and felt happy in doing so, since it
will enable you to take a recess of which you
stand so much in need."
~!y dear Mary," he said; kindly patting her
head, "perhaps you have done wrong in parL
irig with this money, if your mother left it to
you, for a time of distress and want, f~r I
think we might get alopg~ without it for a
while yet."
"No, no, dour uncle," she replied, coaxingly,
"keep the money and let us go new. When
you get back next fall, you will I trust, be
fully restored to *health. Just think what a

happiness it will be to me to see yen strong
and well once more, and to think that I aided
a little, if ever so little, In bringing about so
desirable an end as the restoration of your
health,"
"It shall be as you say," Mr. Droll replied
"and I will go to-morrow to close the bargain
with Capt. Evans. He is a very nice man, a
native of Maine, and under4ands his business
thoroughly."
This matter being thus settled, )4r. Droll
gave Mary some account of the disturbance at
the store, and of Philip's leaving there. While
he was speaking, Philip came in.
"There is the bad boy now," said Mr. Droll'
as he came in.
"If I thought such was really your opinion,
I should feel very sorry, indeed," said Philip,
as he took a seat near them.
"What will you do now, Philip I" Mary in-
qtlire(l. -
"Oh! he will go l;ack again in a week or
two," said Mr. Droll.
"You are mistaken for once," replied Philip,
"I am going to New ~
"To New Orleans !" exclaime&amp;Mary.
"Yes, it is my native place," said Philip'
"my father was a prominent merchant there
for many years, and had many friends, I will
try my fortunethere."
"I am sure you will succeed, Philip," replied
Mary, "if you continue to be as steady and at-
tentive as you have been here."
"I shall try hard for success," he said. "I
thank you, Mary, for your good opinion, which
I assure you I prize beyond all other consider-
ations."
"My advice or commendation are of little
value," she modestly replied, "but I hope you
will gain golden opinions from those to whom
you go, and that you may ever remember that
there is One above whose service is more honor-
able and whose rewards are far greater than
those of earth."
"Where ever I go, Mary your good counsel,
your words of encouragement and kind friend-
ly interest will ever be remembered," h.3
replied. -
"I am glad to hear you say so, Philip," she
answered with childish simplicity, "we have
spent happy hours together, and it will always
be a pleasure to me to know that I am kindly
remembered, especially as we are soon to go to
a country strange and new to me."

I

A TALE OF ANTE BELL UAf TIMES.

"You are going away!" exclaimed Philip.
"Yes, we are going to Scotland," replied Mr.
Droll, "I shall tell them at the store, to-mor-
row, and ges ready to go on the Oakwood next
week."
The evening was spent in discussing their
plans for the future, and with many expres-
sions of friendship and mutual good wishes
they at last separated. Having nothing to de-
tain him, and being anxious to get back to the
scenes of his childhood, Philip left for New
Orleans on the second day after.
The eventful Saturday caine, the time inter
evening seeming even shorter than our friends
had anticipated. The good ship Oakwood,
Capt. Evans, master, was ready for sea, and
the last preparations were being hurried to
completion. Mary was already on Jinoard, and
Mr. Droll, who had gone on shore to procure a
few nice articles for food that he thought 'they
might want on the voyage, wasjust returning,
when Mr~ Seliwell, the last of his friends who
came down, shook him warmly by the hand,
and, almost &amp;rying, bade him God speed.
- "Good bye, Pete, good bye, old boy," said Sam'
as Mr. Droll reached the deck of the vessel.
"God bless you my hearty, and may you come
back fat and sound as a buck."
Mr. Droll returned the salutations of his
friend, and as the vessel left her modring, went
below to Mary.
"Here we are Mary, all right," he said,
cheerfully, "your room is next to mine, so that
if you are sick or want anything, you can easi
ly call me."
"We will be very comfortable, uncle," she -
replied, "and I hope we shall have a quick
and pleasant trip."
"I hope so, dear," he said, "we start in good
trim, anyhow, as we have a hundred dollars
in gold, our passage is paid, and if we should
run short of funds-why, I can get sixty or
eighty dollars for my watch. Come let us go
on deck, and take a look at the old place, it
i9ill be the last we shall have for several
months."
They stood on the deck as the vessel passed
out of the river and down the narrows, and aL t
though they had many a time before, seen the '~
boats running in the harbor, had often passed ~
the picturesque' valleys, and groves of Staten a
Island and The gray walls of Fort Hamilton o
those objects, and everything around possessed a
an interest that they had never felt before. f

I

MARDi GRAS;

There they remained looking back unti]. city~-
fort- and island faded from their view and
everywhere around them, nothing could be
seen but the darl~ blue waters of the Atlantic~
-4---
CIIAPThR XVII.
The house of George Macourty was one of
the best in the city, having inherited a good
reputation from the founder of the business.
By close attention, and strict integrity, Mr.
Macourty had extended his trade slowly and
surely, meeting every engagement promptly,
dealing with his patrons in a fair, just and
honorable manner that ensured him their fu-
ture custom. There was no dash or brilliance,
no wild speculation about his business, but all
the details were carefully attended to, cease-
less energy and never tiring perseverance were-
employed, and success had followed. He we'-
now able to keep a large cash balance aiway-.
on hand to meet the drafts of those who con-
signed goods to him, to take advantage of an~
llnctuations in the markets and to cover ar~
the contingencies of his business. Beside~.
this, he owned considerable real estate, and wn~
the holder of sto~~ka, bonds and mortgages t~
a large amount. His business was now so ex-
tensive and profitable that each year the bal-
ance sheet showed a haudsomeaddition to hi'
fortune.
* It was a morning in November when a young
man passed along the street, evidently in
search of some place he had seen before, for a~
lie walked on, ha read the signs over the doot-"
af the stores, and occasional paused t~observ~
what was going on within. Ev9rywbere th~
evidences ~f a prosperous business were to be
men, boxes and bales of goods were arriving
md departing, clerks were engaged in selling
mud shipping, slid all through the streets bus-
~le and activity prevailed. In front of Mr.
~aconrty's store there were long rows of casks
)f ale and wine, boxes of foreign liquors, and
)ales of imported goods. A clerk was receiv-
ng goods as the draymen brought them from
he ships, another was marking the packages
hat were sold and yet to be sent off, and two
irarehousemen were moving the goods about
s they directed. The young man asked one
f the clerks if Mr. Macourty was in, and was
answered in the affirmative, that he could be~
mud in the office up stairs.

63


The merchant was in his easy office chair'
reading the morning paper, and so intently
engaged that he did not notice the young
man's entrance.
"Do you want another clerk, sir ?" inquired
the young man.
"Not at present," replied Mr. Macourty,
without looking up.
"Could you tell me where I would be likely
to find a place I"
"Really I conld not," replied Mr. Macourty,
carelessly. The book-keeper, who had been
busy over his books, looked around and with
a smile, kindly said, that he did not know of
any vacancy at tbat time.
"Good morning, sir," said the young man,
and wfth a disappointed iook he turned away.
"You want a situation ~ said Mr. Macourty,
suddenly throwing down the paper.
"Yes, sir, I am looking for a place where I
can earn a living, and am willing to work,"
replied the young man.
"What can you do ?" inquired Mr. Macour-
ty, in an absent-minded tone, for something
about the young man's thee had struck him as
being very familiar, and he was trying to think
where he had met him before.
"I write a good hand and am tolerably
quick at figures, I-"
"What is y9ur name ?" said Mr. Macourty
interrupting him.
Philip Cummings, sir, my father Peter
Cummings "
"Why certainly," exclaimed the gentleman,
again interrupting* him, now 'shaking bands
with hiji, and looking very much pleased; "I
ought to have known you at once, Philip. I
~m glad to see you, very glad to see you, come
in here and sit down. Why ~rs. Macourty
will be delighted to see you I am sure, you
must go with me to dinner-certainly, I de-
clare, you look very natural, but have grown
very much. Mr. Browsee-Philip," he said,
introducing the book-keeper, "Philip is an old
favorite of ours," he continued, "and the son
of a much loved friend. Take a seat, Philip,
and tell us all abont your adventures for these
-let me see-it must be sekv en or eight years
since you left us 1"
"Yes, sir, it is," replied P~iilip.
"How is your Uncle, and ow did you leave
the family-well-eh 1"
"Very well, indeed, sir," said Philip, "my
uncle is an excellent man, a~d treated me as if

04

I had been his own eon; in fact, they were all
very kind to me, and I owe them much love
and gratitude."
"I am pleased to hear you say so," relied
his friend, "there is nothing more commend-
able in a young man, than a proper estimation
of the kindness of those to whose care he has
been indebted. You want a situation? Well,
I will try to make room for you, it will be a
poor place at first but you can work up, you
know."
"I shall do my best to do so."
"I think you can make him assistant entry
clerk, Mr. Browsee," he said, thei~ addressing
Philip he continued, "you will have some en-
tries to make, letters to copy, go to the post-
office and bank, get bills of lading signed, and
so on. Mr. Browsee will initiate you. Your
salary will be fifty dollars month, and if you
improve, as I am sure you will, it will be in-
creased. I want th~ best of help about me and
never quibble about salary when I am pleased
with a clerk's services."
Philip expressed hi~ thanks to his friend, and
after a short time spent in conversation, the
business of the day was resumed, in which the
young man at once commenced to take his
part. Mr. Leonard Brow~ee, who was immedi-
ately over him and from whom all of his in-
s1rt~ctions and orders would come, was a man
about twenty-five years of age, tall and' slen-
der, affable and gentlemanly in his manner.
He had been with Mr. Macourty for the past
five or six years, and had discharged~ his duties
faithfully and with untiring energy. His con-
stant application to business and watchful
care of his employers ~aterests, had gained his
confidence and esteem and the management of
the books, cash and office, affairs of the house
were now left entirely to him. Constant con-
finement, long and laborious office hours, and
the ever present ambition to become more and
more useful in the business, had gradual-
ly worn out the strength of Mr. Brow-
see, who was at best never very strong, and
he was now an invalid, often more ~lt for the
sick ward of an hospital, than the active du.
ties of the office. His employer frequently
urged him to take a vacation, or to throw
some of his duties off on the other clerks, but
he felt justly proud of his position in the
house, and the high estimation placed upon his
services, and would never consent to leave his

I

I

A TALE OF AYTE BELL UAI TIMES.

MARDI GRAS;

post, for even a short time, for fear of loosing attending school but with little improvement,
some of the influence that he possessed. Ho and the prospect seemed to be, that she would
was not a married man, but had a mother and never make more than a very ordinary scholar.
thret, sisters, ~vith whom he lived, and who It was not that she lacked the capacity, for if
were supported by him. For them he was al- a new ballad 'canto dut particularly funny or
ways thoughtful, and anxious to gratify every full of slang, if she visited the theatre and the
wish or desire that they expressed. play was grotesque or ludicrous, it' there Was
When the hour for dinner arrived Mr. Ma- any tale of scandal going, these she would
court called Philip, and together they went learn, and repeat word for word, with appro-
up to his residence. He thought the place private embellishments in actions. The visitors
had improved very much since he ~vas there ~t Mrs. Macourty's were persons who moved
before, and as they passed into the parlor in the best society, n~id Cecelia was always
many new beauties about the hous~ met his invited to call on t l~ em and associate with
view. Mrs. Macourty met her liii baud as their children, but she would seldom do so. If,
was her uoat with ~ kiss of welcome, and Ofl the other hand, the milk man invited her ta
he, pointing to Philip told her th~t he had ride in his cart, or Mr) Le Crassezix asked her
brought a young friend to dine wi~h them. to speiid the evening at his house, she was al-
But a woman's eyes are sharper than a man's, ways ready and anxious to comply.
and her heart once impressed with an iuiage, Mr. Le Crasseux was working in the foundry,
either in love or hatred, retains it through where he was getting extra pay as a first class
long years of absence or neglect. workman, for the orders on hand for iron
"Philip, my dear Philip," she cried, throw- work were very intensive, and it was neces~
ing her arms around his neck and kissing him Sexy to work over time in order to fill them.
he men were sitting around the foundry one
again, "why Philip how delighted I am to see d
you. How well you look-and almost grown ay about a month after Philip returned to
New Orleauswhen Toni Binney, who had re-
to be a man-I am so glad yun are back
again.                                   ceutly married, ci~me in. It was the hour al-
"Thank you, my good, ~iind friend," said lowed for dinner and they were chatting so-
Philip, tears of pleasure filling his eyes, "your cially, each one, as he caine in from his [neal,
welcome completes my happiness and makes taking his seat in the crowd and joining in the
me feel at ~                             conversation.
"Here's Tom back a-ready," said Billy
The children, Annie, George and Maggie.       to his companions, " his bride must
were now presented to Philip and Cecelia winking
came in soon after, and was also introduced have received him coolly, or he wouldn't have
been in a hurry to get back."
She recognized Philip at once, and diving the "Oh! he takes his sweet-meats in small
afternoon found an opportunity to have a dozes," put in Joe, a strong stalwart fellow
long talk with him. She inquired about the "so that tim novelty will last longer."
changes in New York, what ha4 become of "Go on fellers," said Torn, good naturedly~
Jicauty, as she called Mary, and why he had "have your joke, you can't phase nie."
come out to New Orleans,                   "No but the marrying did," said another.
Next morning Philip was at the store early 'SWell I never see a feller as nervous as you
and from that time was very successful in fill- was that day," said Billy.
ing the position given him. He obtained "i believe he was sort o' scared," said Joe,
b'olird at a comfortable house and was soon at laughing,
home again. He frequently visited Mrs. Ma- "And you'd a thought he was afraid of
court who treated him with the kindness of leaving some of the foundry dirt ~n himself,"
a mother and took a lively interest in all that said Bill, "I'm blessed if he didn't scour and
he did. Under her guidance he was soon a scrub hiniself as if he'd been an old tin pan."
regular attendant at mass at St. Patrick's "That's so ?" exclaimed Joe, "I'll be hanged.
Church. To him Cecolia, with whom he had if he didn't take two baths that day."
every opportunity to become acquainted, was At this lhere was a hearty laugh, in which
as great an enigma, as she was to others who Toni joined, frankly admitting that he had.
thought they knew her well. She was still done so.
.9

05


"Well you were greener than I thought for,"
said Le Crasseux.
"I suppose you didn't bath twice the day
~you was married I" said Tom turning to the
flew speaker.
"That I didn't, nor once neither," was the
reply.
"You didn't!" exclaimed Bill, "well I
wouldn't tell it."
"I don't believe in no such ~ said
Le ~rasseux doggedly.
"I don't see any foolery about keeping one's
self clean," said Tom.
"Well I do," replied Le Crasseux with a
sneer, "I dont believe in washing your healMi
away. I haven's taken a bath since I landed
in America."
"Whoop-pee !" exclaimed Joe, "well I'll be
shot if I wouldn't be ashamed to own it."
"I am not, however," replied Le Crasseux,
'with emphasis, "I haven't taken a bath since
I wae a boy and I don't mean to take another."
"You are a dirty dog," said Joe, indignantly.
"You are not fit to associate wth gentlemen,"
said Bill.
"You are a disgrace to the city," said Toni.
"Go on; what do I care what you say,"
said Le Crasseu~, contemptuously.
"You haven't taken a bath since you were
married I" asked Joe.
"No; nor.for years before," was the reply*
"And you say you don't intend to ?" again
asked Joe.
" I don't intend to and I won't," said Le
Crasseu'r.
"Well, you shan't stay in this place and
make that boast," said Joe. "Come on, boys,'
let's give him a taste of cola water."
Without further words, Joe seized npon Le
Crasseux, and the others assisted in carrying
him to a back room of the foundry, where
there were long,~ deep troughs filled with wa-
ter. While Joe held him, in a grasp that de-
fied all his turning and struggling to getaway,
the rest of the men pulled off his shoes, coat
and other clothes, when they lifted him up
and placed him in the water; or~e now ran for
soap, and another for the coarse roller towel
used for their hands and faces. Le Crasseux
was then well soaped and r~abbed, and hi~
head thoroughly washed, after which he was
rubbed down with the crash and allowed to
dress. He came out a new man in looks, but

66

with an additional quantity of vinegar in his
disposition.
When he returned to his home that night a
thunder-cloud of anger hung over his dark
brow and made his face even more forbidding
than nonal. He had not the courage or spirit
to show his resentment to the men at the
foundry, but spent his afternoon in sullenly
brooding over the treatment he had received
at their hands. Ilia wife saw at once, when
he entered, that there was something wrong,
and fastened to put the children out of the
way and give him his supper.
The impending storm was averted; however,
by the entrance of Cecelia and Felix, who had
been taking a walk together. Cecelia was a
great favorite with him; they were kindred
spirits; he always took great pleasure in
hearing her wild stories and encouraging her
in making complaints against her adopted
parents. There was, too, a friendship springing
up between his nephew and the girl,,which he
encouraged, hoping that it would lead to their
union for life.
Cecelia had a surprise for him, one that he
hardly knew whether to feel pleased at or not.
After a long recitation of her wrongs, the
slights put upon her and the oppression
under which she suffered, in telling which
he encouraged her, although he believed
them false, she announced that she 'had
left Mr. Macourty's house, and asked him
to give her a home, until such time as she
could get work to do that would support her.
He did netlike this, because he did not believe
she would try to get another place, but, once
with his family, would become a fixture, and
further, he knew it would damage her pros-
pects for the future, in which he felt an inter-
eat, on account of the plans he had formed for
his nephew.
"DQn't you think it0wou~d be better to try
to get along with them for a few mouths
longer V' he asked.
"I can't do it, sir," she replied, with a down-
cast look, "I can't stand it, sir, I must leave
them."
"I never heard of such persecution,~~ said
Felix, who wished to have her in his uncle's
house, so that he would have a better oppor-
tunity to pay his attentions .to her, "it is a
shame for people to act so and put on such airs
abe it religion."

I

A TALE OF ANTE BELLUM TiMES.

"I don't believe a word of it," said Mrs. Le before. The weather was clear and the wind
Crasseux.                               fair, the noble vessel ploughed through the
"Oh! of course you don't !" exclaimed her waters of the onean in fine style, giving good
husband.
"Well, I don't," said his wife, firmly, "Mrs. promise of a quick trip.
The next day Mr. Droll found himself too
Macourty is a kind lady, and has been a much exhausted to venture on deck. The day
mother to Cecelia. Don't have anything to do was spent in reading or playing checkers, and
with the girl, for I tell you the don't tell the the evening twilight faded into the darkness
truth."
"Bat I will protect htr," he replied, "so you of night while they talked of the past, of the
needn't say anything more." church where she had sung in the choir, of
"If she comes bore it will make Mrs. ~ Philip and his return to his native city, and
court angry, very justly so, too," said his other topics, the memory of which gave them
wife, "and I shall loose her sewin''~    much pleasure.
"That's all right," he replied, "your sewing On the day following her friend was so
don't amount to much. If she wants to get much better that Mary felt greatly encour-
mad, let her do it. This is my house and as aged, and talked gaily of their visit to Scot-
long as I've got one I'll give Cecelia a home." land and the pleasant times she expectedd to
The opposition of his ~vife only confirmed have there. She sang to him many of those
Le Crasseux in his determination to favor Ce- dear old ballads, that touch the heart in their
celia, and it was consequently decided that she simple melody, ~and fill the mind with harmo-
should make her home with their family for nious feelings by the depth'and beauty of their
the future,                             sentiment.  In the evening they walked
around the vessel, watching the sun as
he sank in golden glory behind the limitless
spacer of wattr, and were filled with pleasure
CIIAPT1~R xviii.            at the serenity and beauty that surrounded
sailor and her them. When she retired to rest at night, Mary
The Oakwood was a good                 felt relieved of a heavy load of anxiety and
master was thorough in the knowledge of his
business. flvery part of the vessel was kept soon fell into a quiet a~d happy repose.
*)elfectly clean and in proper order, every man How uncertain are the pleasures, and fleet-
f the crew had his duties to perform, and was ing the joys of life! Who that has watched
particular to do his work well. Mr. Droll and with some dear friend through the varied
his ward were the only passengers on board, scenes, the lights and shadows, the failing
and in point of room were as comfortable as if strength and rallying bloom, the deceptive
they had been at Mrs. Reed's. The table was turnings of consumj~tion, and cannot tell of
not so satisfactory, although even that would the bright hopes and heart-breaking disap-
have been acceptable to those who were in pointments that attend every stage of the
good health and willing to live ii plain style terrible disease? Now comes the palid
during the few days of an ocean passage. The cheeks, the short, hacking cough, the
last outlines of the shore had hardly faded feeble step and the heavy, drowsy feeling, and
from her view when Mary began ~o feel that with a mind overtaxed with pain you seem to
terrible nausea which, to those who live on the see the grim messengerr of death standing
land, has always been the greatest shadow ready to ~mtrike down his vielfim. But there
overhanging a sea voyage. For three days she comes a silver lining to the clouds, the warm
was very sick, and seldom left her room, glow of liiereturns to the face, the step be-
When this passed oils she found that Mr. Droll comes elastic, and the walk upright and buoy.
wa~ much worse, than when they started and J ant, the pain leaves the chest and the eyes
had only ~cept around to encourage her. In the glow with a brilliance that seems almost
evening, when they went on deck, it was with ethereal. Hope returns, the disease has
difficulty that he ascended the stairs, and he changed for the better, health will come again
oat for many minutes completely exhausted, and our friend will be spared for many years.
then a spell of coughing followed, that was j Vain and delusive hopes, for, even in that
nore violent than any she had ever witnessed I moment of brightest visions, the destroying

I

MIARdDI GRAS;

67


A TALE OF ANTE BELL UMf TIMES.             6MAiGA;

angel, with noiseless steps, is approaching
more surely to his prize. ~
In the night Mary awoke and heard Mr.
Droll in his room, which was next to her own,
coughing -violently, and breathing short and
hard between the, spells, as if ins great dis-
tress. Hastily throwing on her dress, she en-
tered his room and found that the spell had
brought on a hemorrhage, and he was now
throwing up large quantities of pure arterial
blood. To her, the minutes seemed hours and
dragged slowly along through time while the
attack lasted. The cough shook and con-
vulsed his whole frame, while he was almost
suffocated by tlie blood t1zat- filled he, throat,
ever and again coming out in a frightful
stream. At last he fell back upon the pillow,
weak and exhausted, a deathly palor spread-
ing over his face, and the throbbing of his
pulse comirrg so soft and slow that it was al-
most lost altogether. When it was near
morning another attack came, nearly as se-
vere and long as the first. After this he fell
into a sleep which lasted until after 10 o'clock-.
As they did not go to breakfast the Captain
came into the 'room, and when he saw Mr-.
Droll he shook his. head omino,usly and went
out again. In a few minutes he returned'
took the invalid's band and felt carefully for
the pulse, looked carelessly around the
room, and -was leaving again when Mary
asked what he thought of Mr. Droll.
" Well, he may last as far as LiverpooI," he
said, shrugging his shoulders.
" Mag last ! Do you think him so low Cap-
tain I" anxiously inquired the girl.
"Just as low as he can be and live," he re-
plied. " I didn't much think he could stand a
sea voyage, but I never thought it would take
him so sudden." .
"Is there nothing that could be done, sir I Do
you know of anything that would do him-
god " she asked.
" Humph! not a thing-he's very low-
pbably won't last through the night-but
te confounded disease has so many turns that
you can never tell," anI with these words he
left the room. -
Mary watched patiently by his side until he
awoke and looked languidly around the room.
When he saw her he smiled and then closed
his eyes again, as if he was too much worn out
to keep them open. She watched him again,

silently and saddly, and when he again awoke,
asked how he felt.
" Much better,!' was tbe reply, but the feeble
tone of his voice anl the traces~of pain on his
death-like countena cc made a different an-
swer.
Mary went to the cook-room and got a cup
of coffee for herself, and after some difficulty
procured for her uncle a cup of tea and a little
toast. There was no fresh meat on the ship,
not even a chicken, and she was, therefore,
obliged to take such refreshment as she could
get. But she found Mr. Droll too weak to take
anything more than a sup of the tea, after
which he slept again.
He was much refreshed afterwards, and
with a look of grateful love asked Mary to go
and lie down, saying that he feared that she
would be worn out with watching. This she
gently refused to do, but remained with him,
paying such little' attentions as she could. The
day passed quietly aivay and but one little
hemorrhage came on during. th~e night. Thus
the day's and nij~hts passed with no other
change than that the invalid was growing
weaker all the time. Mary was constant in
her attentions. No daughter could have been
more gentle and loving. Every care was taken
by her to keep the room in cheerful and clean
order, to make his bed comfortable and his
position easy. Such articles of nourishment as
they had provided, or could be obtained on the
ship, Miary prepared for him with her own
hands, and out of very little succeeded in
making dishes that were pleasing and accept-
able to him. In these labors she .neither re-
ceived assistance or encouragement from any
one attached to the vessel., The Captain
seemed to avoid all communication with tiem,
for fear of being troubled to do something for
the sick man.'
After a night of broken rest, short spells of
sleep, interrupted by spells of coughing, made
worse by a slow fever tht~dstldon him
Mr. Droll was taken with another fit of spitting
blood, which frightened the young watcher so
that she hurried out to hunt up the captain
and beg his assistance'.
" What's the use i" he replied, .impatiently.
" I can do nothing for him. If he holds cut
three days longer we shall be in Liverpool,
and then may be you can find a doctor who
will try to cure him."

68

69

"Are we so near the end of the voyage' altar to return praise to Him who watches
she inquired.                            over the orphan and the friendless, offer up
" Yes, I think so," replied the captain, with some petition for nte," he continued, while his
a look at the s~ky. " We have a fair wind and face glowed with the pleasure of calm resigna-
good weather, and ought to make it in that tion and his eyes seemed to be filled with the
time." light of hope. "You know so well how to
'"Oh, I am very glad to hear it !" she earnestly pray, you are so pure and good that Our Fa-
replied.                    -'. ,        ther will hear you, and although I have been
" Yes, but when you get to Liverpool," he taught a different religion from yours, I trust
said, " if you want a doctor you will require that He will forgive me if I amn wrong."
money to pay him."             '" There can be but one true Church, Uncle,"
" We have money, Captain," she replied, she replied. " Our Saviour established only
"plenty of money to pay all expenses." one, and that has endured, and will endure,
"Have youi Well, you are till right then," through all ages."
he answered, in a careless tone. Finding that ." I have often thought of that, Mary dear,"
the captain would do nothing for her friend, he said,'"and sometimes had almost deter-
Mary left him and returned to the room, mined to become a member of the Church with
" Mary dear," Mr. Droll said, when she took you-but it is too late now, dear, too late now.'
her seat beside the bed, " you have been a "God is just, Uncle, kut He is also merciful,"
good girl, and I hope you will always be happy. she replied. "For your sins and errors you
lMy greatest regret now ,is that I cannot leave can offer Him sorrow and contrition, and these
you as comfortable as you deserve to be." He will not despise. Try to awalten in your
"Don't think of leaving me, Uncle," she re- heart deep feelings of love for His goodness
plied, putting the hair back from his forehead and mercy, and a sincere regretfor the offences
and smoothing his pillow, " we shall soon beo committed against His holy will, and with pa-
in Liverpool, and then you will have such tience and resignation await His call, with full
nursing and care that you will recover your confidence in His( boundless mercy."
strength and be able to travel up to Scotland.'" " With your help, Mary, I will try," he re-
" Ah, I never shall see Scotland again," he plied.
said, with a sorrowful look. "My poor mother, Thus encouraged, the young girl took their
if I could only see her once more, how happy' prayer book, knelt by the bed side, and with
I would be! Dear, ever kind mother, this will fervor read many of the beautiful, solemn and
be a sad blow for her." appropriate' devotions. At her request be fol-
"Nay, Uncle, do not feel so low spirited," lowed her through the creed, the act of con-
she replied, suppressing with difficulty the trition, the Litany of the Holy Name of Jesus,
grief that filled her heart. "You are no worseanthAdrtoofheCs.Atrtise
to-day than you have been, and once we reach sank once more into sleep, a sleep which was
the land you will soon recover."         more calm than he had enjoyed before foi some
"I my nt lok wrse" h repied  "bt ~time. While he rested- she placed by his side
I my nt lok  ors," e rplid,  bu Ia plain wooden cross that she always carried,
feel that I am much weaker and rapidly sink- which she prized very much, because it had
ing. I cannot last much longer, and although be  lse  o  e  ytego      ahro h
I should like to have yen remember me, Mary churc weres sedrb the goo wither mofthe
der I dontws-tt       e  ihsdeso e       When he awoke he asked for a drink of water.
pinmng, but rather with the pleasant glow like  "ar  nou  ld"h  .ad in a'ola
that which the thought of some good deed, voc.Thavou chilaad, suhn goo slep, lar'
some happy hour or some quiet moment of rest "YiesUc I hdought yood slee Mrestin
gives to the mind."                      well.,"thuhtyuweeretn
"I shall always cherish your memory, Thie sun was sinking now low down to the
Uncle, as the best and kindest of friends," waters, and from the little window of his room
she answered, while, in spite of her efforts to he could see the waves as they danced in the
keep them back, tears of sorrow ran down her golden light of an early autumn sun-set.
cheeks.                                    He looked upon the beautiful scene quietly
"Yes, Mary, and when you kneel before the for a while, and then struggled to raise him-

MARD1 GRAS;


self upon his elbows, that he might vie it
better, but his strength was gone and he s nk
again upon the pillow. Mary saw the cif rt,
and, hurrying to him, fixed the pillows nd
then raised him almost to a sitting positi u.
"God bless you, Mary dear-pray for m ,"
he said, and then, raising the crucifix he
pressed it to his lips, his eyes closed, his I ps
gentlyparted, and a smile of sweet satisfy c-
tion spread over his face as he fell back on he
pillows-dead. Mary looked long and wistft~ ly
into his face, which was as calm as if he were
only asleep, and, as she arranged the bed and
put his hair back, captain Evans entered and
asked how he was.
"He is dead, sir," the girl quietly r~plied.
"Indeed! yes-that's so," replied the cap-
tain, as he took the lifeless hand in his and
felt for the pulse that was now stilled forever,
"yes, he's gone. Well, you leave the room now
and I'll fix him up."
"I cannot leave him, sir," she said.
"Why, you can't fix him," replied the cap-
tain. "It's not fit work fox~ a delicate young
thiiug like you."
Mary ~ave such directions as ~he thought of
in relation to the arrangement of the corpse
and then left the room. When she returned
he was dressed in a neat suit of black clothes,
with a nice shirt and well-tied cravat; his
hair had been combed back from his forehead
and his face cleanly shaken. She felt grateful
to the captain for this kind attention, and be-
lieved that beneath a rough exterior he car-
ried a good heart. Mr. Droll's watch guard, a
plain black ribbon, was around his neck
as he always' 'wore it, with the end in his
vest pocket, and, as she wished to know the
time, she' pulled it out, but the watch was
gone. She thought the captain had so ar-
ranged it, in order to keep the watch from
being buried with him, and recognized in the
act another evidence of his watchfulness and
forethought.
During the night she watched alone with the
corpse of her friend, and thought through the
dark hours of the night of how great to her
was the loss of this only true friend, who had
been to her like a father. She could not think
of the future, of what she would do, now that
he was gone. The present, the dark, storm-
clouded present, hung over her withthe gloom
of a pall, and she could only think of her kind,

70

indulgent friend, uncle and father, as he lay
there before her in the cold and rigid form of
death. There was one friend she thought of
and whose presence would have cheered the
gloom that surrounded her. During their long
acquaintance Philip Cummings had joined in
her studies and sports, had sympathized with
her in her troubles and trials, and had always
taken an interest in whatever engaged her.
There had been no set ways or speeches be-
tween them, no artificial plans to win con-
fidence or esteem. They had played, studied,
sung and walked together without any thought
of being more than friendly and agreeable.
When they had d~ffercd in opinion on any sub-
ject, or in wish about any recreation, they had.
spoken candidly and without any attempt at
an agreeability they did not feel. Yet a friend-
ship, a mutual esteem, and a deep interest in
each other's welfare, had sprung up between
them, which was all tl~e more deep and sin-
cere, and was likely to prove the more durable,
because it sprung up unheeded ~nd unsought
by either, She thought often during that long
night how grieved Philip would fc9l when he
heard of the death of Mr. Droll, who had been
so kind to them both, and how sincerely he
would, sympathize with her if he was only
present.
Early next morning the captain came in,
attended by one of the men, who carried some
ropes. He was surprised to find her there and
more so when he learned that she had watched
all night.
"Well, I think it's all nonsense to watch
with a dead man," he said, with a careless,
rude manner, "just like it would do him any
harm to remain alone."
"It may be foolish," she replied, "but it is
customary, and, I think, is but a poor tribute
to the memory of a dear, lost friend."
"Well-well-as you like," he replied, im-
patiently. "I suppose you want to say goid
bye to him; if so, hurry up, so that we can
put him over before the sun gets very high."
"Put him over, Captain I" she exclaimed,
"you surely are not in earnest."
"To be sure, I am," he said. "Didn't you
ever hear that people who die at sea are buried
in the water."
"Such things I know occur on emigrant
ships and in ~ but you are Dot
pressed for loom, and, besides, two days more,
or three, at most, will bring us to Liverpool."

U

A TALE OP ANTE BELLUM TIMES.

MARDI GRAS;
"Can't see that that makes any difference," Mary did not go on deck again that day, but
he replied,                             employed the time in the sad duty of arrang-
"But, Captain, he has friends Who will want ing and packing away the articles that be-
the body, and will gladly pay you br the longed to her uncle. When she went above
trouble of keeping it," she urged.      next morning she found the captain superin
"Your canny Scotch are not over liberal tending the work of the crew and giving
with their ha'pence," he replied, "and wilinot oi~ders to have the vessel put in or(ler before
mind it ia fact I have no doubt they will they entered the port. He acknowledged her
thank me for saving thorn the expense of a presence by a mere nod and continued his
funeral."                                work. As he passed her she expressed a wish
'~You speak very lightly of your fellow men," to speak with him, to which he replied by the
she replied, with dignity, "and very irrever- demand "What do you watit ?"
cut of the dead. I am surprised that one who "Captain, there was money in my uncle's
is so constantly in danger should speak so trunk, she said, with some hesitation "and I
carelessly of the trials of others."    canno1~find it now."
"WeU, Miss, if you are through, we will "Well, what have I to do with that I" he
proceed," he said, with a sneer. asked, in a rough manner.
"Think for a moment, Captain," she urged "1 thought you might have seen it, sir,",~he
upon him, "only two days more and we will replied.
reach Liverpool, where you can have the body "You and I are the only persons that havQ
cased and his friends will take it from you. been in the room," he said, turning angrily
That will be a great joy to his mother, a con- around, "and I did not see the money, nor do
solution to his brother and a favor they will I believe there wa~ any,"
forever feel grateful for. Do not put him over- "I saw it, sir," she replied. "I counted it
board! Have some consideration for the the day before my uncle died. There was one
wishes and prayers of his friends." hundred dollars in gold-three twenty dollar
"'It can't be done," he replied, firmly and piae~'s, two ten and four five dollar pieces.'
decisively, "the body must go over now."  "It is a game, nothing more," he answered,
"Since you will not listen to my prayers for with a sneer. "There was no money there,
the body of my poor friend," she said, sadly, but you think you will make a hundred dollars
"you will at least let mp conform to the rules out of me. You can't do it. You needn't try
of Christian burial." it won't do."
To this the captain reluctantly assented. "You may have seen his watch, Captain, for
The body was wrapped in a blanket, bound up cannot find that, and yod certainly remem-
with cords and then removed to the deck, her that he had one 1" she anxiously inquired.
where it was exposed until Mary completed "Certainly I saw his watch," he replied.
the ceremonies of the Church over him. "Well, sir, do you know where it is ~" she
Kneeling on the deck beside the corpse, she inquired, hopefully.
"Why it was buried with him !" lie exclaim-
read the Litany of the Dead and the solemn ed, "didn't you see the ribbon about his
and beautiful office of burial, while the men neck."
stood by with heads uncovered and respectfully "Yes, sir, I saw the ribbon," she replied,
bowed down. When she had finished, she "and the watCh had been taken off. I ex-
f~tooped for a moment ever the body, kissed amined it myself."
the cold lips, a last and final leave-taking of a "That's a lie, for I know the watch wa'
good and generous friend, and then st6od back. buried with him," he replied, fiercely, and
The captain gave a sign and two of the men then ordered her to go below, and not try a;':
stepped forward and closed up the folds of the more swindling on him.
blanket. The corpse was then carried to the When they reached Liverpool, the Captai
side of the vessel, and slowly lowered into the told Mary that she could remain on the shij~
deep blue waters of the ocean, which, parting, until Mr. Droll's friends could be heard from,
received him to their bosom, and then forever a permission she was obliged to accept, as ~she
closed over all that remained of poor, gentle, was left without money. In due season Mi~.
loved and loving Peter Droll. John Droll answered her letter in person-He


A TALE 01? ANTE BELLUM TiMES.          73

greeted her very kindly, and listened with in-
terest to her account of the long and patient
Suffering, last illness, death and burial of his
brother. To his demand for his brother's mon-
~ey and watch, the Captain returned the same
answer as he had done to Mary. Finding that
hie protests and arguments were useless Mr.
Droll told the Captain to have the baggage
put ashore and they would leave him.
"I want the passage money for your brother
and this fast young lady," replied the Captain.
"My brother wrote me the day before he
left New York," replied Mr. Droll, "that he had
paid the passage money."
"Well, sir, I don't care wii at he wrote you.
The passage money has not been paid," replied
the Captain.
"He would not tell a lie alout it, Captain,"
said Mr. Droll, "and I can show you the letter."
"I don't want to see the h4ter,~~ replied the
Captain, "I want the monet, and I will have
it."
"The passage was paid," said Mary, feeling
in the pocket of her sack for the papei~, "and
here is the receipt."
"The receipt she produced was in the hand-
writing of Mr. Peter Droll, and was for the
passage of himself and niece, but in the hurry
and excitement of getting ready to leave New
York, he had s~egZected to get it signed. The Cap-
tain's triumph was complete, and without fur-
ther argument Mr. Droll asked the amount 91
the bill.
"Well, as there has been some misunder-
standing," replied the Captain, "I will let you
off with twenty pounds, although it ought to
be at least forty, as I had the trouble of nurs-
ing and attending him in his last illness !"
To this Mr. Droll made no other reply than
te pay the money and order the baggage put
on shore."
* When they arrived at the hotel where Mr.
Droll had stopped, he procured a room for
Mary, where she was comfortable and could
enjoy a little repose.
"You must be worn out my dear child," he
said to her, "and we will thereforeremain here
.a few days, so that you can get rested and re-
cover from the fatigue and excitement of the
events of your voyage. After that we will go
up to Scotland where I can promise that you
'will be cordially welcomed."

CHAPTER XXX.
The stekidy perseverance with which he un-
dertook the duties devolving upon him and the
tact and ability that he displayed in business,
soon gained for Philip the entire confidence of
his employer. He had a decided advantage in
being a favorite with Mrs. Macourty, who
treated him as she would have done a son, and
never tired in her praises of him to her hus-
band. In addition to this his father had been
an esteemed friend of Mr. Macourry's, and a
man who had stood without a blemish or re
preach in social and business circles. Many
of his evenings were spent at Mr. Macourty's
residence, and here every thing was done to
make the time pleasant to him. He accom-
panied Mrs. Macourty and Annie, sometimes
with George and Cecelia, in her visits to their
friends, and was thus soon introduced into a
large and agreeable circle of aequantances,
from whom he received numerous invitations
to parties and social gatherings, that took up
much of his spare time. On Sundays and oth-
er holy days, he occupied a seat in Mr. Ma.
county's pew at St. Patrick's, and was atten-
tive to his duties, earning an enviable reputa-
tion everywhere he went. Mrs. Macourty of-
ten talked with him about her little daughter,
in whose rescue he had manifested so much in-
terest at the time ~he was kidnapped. He
sympathized with her sincerely in her grief at
that loss and entered fully into the hope that
some day, the child would yet be recovered.
It did not matter how long she talked on the
subject, he always listened with interest, and
kept up his part of the conversation in a man-
ner that showed his heart was in the matter.
Under these circumstances it was no wonder
that her heart warmed to him, and that he
soon became with her almost as dearly loved
as one of her own children.
One of his first acts after entering the office
of Mr. Macourty, was to write to Mary, and
inform her of his good fortune. This letter
was written with great care, read, corrected
and re-written, for now that they were separ-
ated by so many miles of distance he felt more
delicacy in addressing her, than he had done
when they were together. After finishing the
letter to his satisfaction, ho directed it to her
at the town in Scotland where he knew she
was going with Mr. Droll, and carried it to the
post office to mail it himself. Months rolled

I

73

away and there came no answer. Had she for-
gotten him? This question recurred to him
frequently, and began to possess far more in-
terest than he had ever thought it would. He
remembered the pleasant hours they had pass-
ed together, the child-like innocence of her
manner, her cheerful disposition, and her
words of encouragement, and the thought that
other friends now filled her mind, and had
caused her to forget him, weighed heavily
upon his heart. He would often run over the
list of those he now visited, and compare
them with her, but there w~s none so beauti-
fuland good as she was. At last, his letter
came back to him. It was returned through
the Dead Letter Office, with the simple en*
dorsement, made by the Scotch post-master,
"no such person resides here, or is known in
this neighborhood." What could t~is mean?
He had agreed with her before they parted
that his letters should be directed to her per-
sonally, and now the first~ one, had come hack,
without having been called for. For several
days he carried the letter in his pocket, fre-
quently reading the postmaster's remark on
the back of it, a~id pondering over the singu- j
lar manner in which Mary was acting. Then
in a fit of anger and mortification he tore the
letter up, and distributed it in little pieces as t
he walked along the street, determining in d
his own mind that she did not wish to hear h
from himand that it was beneath Iris dignity~
to trouble her any more. This amiable frame
of mind lasted for several weeks, during which
he made himself pleasantly miserable, by
brooding over the uncertainty of earthly af- r
fairs, and the changeableness of female nature
in particular. He then began to think with
more reason about the matter, and remember- a
lag the guileless sincerity and candor of Mary,
came to the conclusion that something unex-
pected had occurred, a shipwreck perhaps, and
he therefore wrote to Mr. Peter Droll, directing
the letter to the care of his brother John. a
During this time he was attentive to his
businesss, and in his leisure was sociable with
the many now friends he made. The with- h
drawal of Cecelia from the house of her adopt- ~
ed parents, was an unexpected surprise to! 0
him, a step that he was at a loss to account V
for. Mrs. Macourty was much annoyed at the ~'
circumstance, and troubled to think of the fa-
ure that s'ch 00 nduct would lead to. Her P
husband felt less interest in the matter. He a

.~WARDI GRAS;

argued that they had done all they could for
the child, and as she continually showedd by
her action's that she was incapable of uppre'
citing their kindness, it was their duty to le~
her take care of herself. But his wife felt an
interest in the wanderer, and wished to per-
se'vere in the effort to redeem her from her
wild, uncouth ways. She was very indignant
at the Le Crasseux family, and when that lady
called she was received in a very cool manner.
Mine. ]~e Crasseux protested that she was op-
posed to receiving Cecelia in her house, and
that she had neither encouraged or believed
her stories. After the matter was explained
to her Mrs. Macourty felt sorry for the little
woman and fully Oxcused her from all blar~io
in CecePa's flight.
After an absence of two months Ce~ielia be-
~an to think of the comforts of the home she
had left, and requested permission to return~
&amp;t first Mr. Macourty refused to give his con-
lent, but the rezoning of his wife and the
~pecial pleading of the children, with a good
~'ord from Philip, changed his resolution, and
he girl was once more taken back into his
~rmily.
While at Mrs. Macourty's one evening, Philip
earned that Mr. MacVain had called to see
hem, and had required for him. The next
Lay he called at that gentleman's office to seo
Lim, and was very kindly received.
"So you are with Mr. Macourty ?" said Mi~
lacVain.
"Yes, sir, I am an assistant in the office,"
replied Philip.
"I am very glad to hear it," said his friend,
it is one of the best houses in the city, and
s you have a footing there, with attention to
business your fortune is made."
"I am very well satisfied," replied Philip.
"Yes, yon ought to be," said Mr. MacVain,
for Mr. Macourty is an excellent man, kind
ud just, and fins the reputation of paying as
liberal salaries as any one in town."
"He pays splendidly, every man about the
ouse is paid a good salary, besides which they
eli me that a Christmas never passes without
ach one receiving a liberal present in money,
dth kind messages that are as grateful to the
~elings as the present is acceptable."
"That's very nice, and just like him !'~ he re~
lied, and a shadow of sadness came over him
s he thought of the deep injury he had done
10


this excellent man," I do not know a better,
man than George Macourty."
As Philip was leaving, two Sisters of Chari-
ty entered, and quietly waited until Mr. Mac-
Vain was at leisure.
"Good morning, ~ said that gentle-
man, in a kind and encouraging manner,
"what can I do to serve you."
"We are raising funds, sir," one of them
replied, "to paint our asylum. It has not been
done for a long time, and is necessary both for
the comfort of the orphans under our care,
and as a means of preserving the building.
"'We also need some winter clothing for the
children."
Mr. MacVain bowed again, and received from
her the .subscription list from which he read,
haf aloud, "Robert McDonald, one hundred;
Dick Cheerful, twenty-five; Thomas Cane,
one hundred; Alfred Plant, one hundred;
George Macourty, one hundred; Len Browsee,
fifty; Albert Biown, twenty-five; Sam Tel-
her, one hnn ired; and so it goes," he said "no
body under twenty-five dollars yet."
"We have another list in this little book,"
~~id the Sister, "on which are the names of
such as can only give a little, for every sum,
however small is acceptable."
Mr. MacVain wrote en the paper, "Percy
MacVain, one ;~I then added the names' of three
of his clerks, who had been with him for a
long time and managed his business for him,
when he was out of the city. "Albert May-
land, William Thomas, and Paul Ballanie, one
hundred each," and directed his cashier, Mr.
Maylaud to give him "four hundred dollars
sand charge it to expense account."
Philip took the small book from the Sister,
and inscribing there "cash, ten dollars,"
banded the amount to her, and bidding Mr.
MacVain "good day," returned to his busi-
ness.
The season was one of activity and prosperi-
ty in commercial matters, and the city was
very gay and lively all the time. In the sum-
mer Mrs. Macourty went over to Biloxi, and
her husband spent much of his time there
also, leaving Mr. Browace in charge of the
business. Mrs. McDonald atid many others of
the city p ased the warm season on the lake
shore, and Philip made several pleasant visits
to them d ring the summer.

ChAPTER XX.
After a day or two passed in perfect quiet,
Mr. John Droll took Mary around the city,
pointed out the beautiful buildings, visited
some of the places of amusement, and exerted
himself to make the time pleasant and to draw
her mind from the grief and trouble that op-
pressed her. She was never tired of praising
his brother, and would sit for hours relating
incidents connected with their home in New
York, dwelling with much pleasure on his
kind and generous acts, his honorable reputa-
tion with all who knew him, and the 'gentle
and quiet interest he always manifested in her
studies and amusements.
"Well, Mary," said Mr. Droll, when they
had been a week in Liverpool, "I think we
may get jeady now to go home."
"I have been thinking of that, Mr. ~
she answered, with some hesitation, as if she
hardly knew ho~w~ to word what she had to
say, "I am grateful to you for your kind at-
tention, as, indeed, I ought to be, but I-the
truth is, with all thanks to you, I have resolved
to return to New York."
"Return-return, why what do you mean?
It can't be, no, no, don't think of it," exclaimed
the surprised gentleman.
"I do not doubt the sincerity of your friend-
ship in your offer of a home," she replied, "but
I have thought the matter over well, and I
must go back."
"I'll ~wait a week or so longer," he' said,
earnestly hoping that she would alter her
plans, "and perhaps you wiil change your
mind. I promised Peter in my letters to him,
for he always wrote about you in every letter
of his, that I would receive you and take care
of you, as I would a child of my own. I do
not say it to make you feel any obligation, but
as an assurance to you that you will be wel-
come, myself and wife will do all that we can
for you, and as the companion and adopted
child of nl+ poor brother, you are sure of a
warm place in my mother's heart. Therefore,
I hope you will not disappoint us, you are al-
ready counted as one of our family and they
will all be sadly grieved if I return without
you.'
"My kind, generous friend," she answered,
with great earnestness, "I am unable to sa~ to
you in words how much I thank y~u for this
offer which I 'cannot nopept. I am an Amen-

I

A TALE 01? ANTE BELLUM TIMES.

__________________               MARDi GRAS;
can, and I long to return to my native country, but as further argument to induce her to go
shoulA I return with you to Scotland I might with him to Scotland would be useless, he re-
never get home again, but here I will claim quested Captain Tollis, to take good care of
the assistance of the agent of our country, her, and with 'many good wishes left Mary on
and through his influence get a passage." the ship. Her homeward voyage was as
"Upon my word, Mary," said Mr. Droll, pleasant as she could have expected under the
somewhat nettled at her patriotisni, "I think circumstances, and was without any partien-
your experience with Capt. Evans would lar event to make an extended notice inter-
somewhat shake your faith in American gen- eating. They experienced a little squall which
tleinen." lasted for the greater part of two days, with
"Thefe are meax~ and dishonest people in which exception the weather was fine and
every nation," she ~quietly replied, "and of favorable. Captain Tollis, a native 'of New
course I cannot claim exemption from the rule York, was a large, powerful man, with a full
for mine. Yet such men as the Captain are beard slightly mixed with gray. His face was
the exceptions, for as a class, there are no men open and convivial in expression, and hi~ eyes
more honorable, high minded, just and gener- seemed brim full of mirth and humor. There
ous, more delicate in their* attentions to was beneath his careless joviality, the refine-
strangers or more kind to the poor and friend- 'ment and natural nobility of mind and
less, than the men of my own country. I wiligo thought, which gave him the tact to under-
to the American Consul andhe will give me pro- stand those with whom he came in contact,
section and a passage home. I beg of yon not axid to appreciate and respect innocence and
to think hard of me nor judge me ungrateful virtue, and to assist and comfort the poor and
or thankless. When I left home with my distressed with a delicacy that made his at-
Uncle, we thought, that by next fall we should te~3tions acceptable to the most retired and
return. There are reasons why I am anxious dimdent of his passengers. He was during
to remain in New York, at least for a time, the whole voyage kind and attentive to Mary,
reasons that I am sure you will say are suffi- furnishing her with books to read, and doing
ciently strong to justify my determination to all that he could to make the time pass
return home, and as a justification of my pleasantly.
action, I beg of you to listen while I give you As soon as they arrived at New York, Mary
an outline of my past life." went to Mrs. Reed's to secure a room and
"I do not ask it, Mary," he replied, thinking board. The kind hearted Captain insisted
from her manner that the subject was painful that she should lea7e her baggage on board
to her, "I am sorry I cannot change your de- until she had made a bargain w~th Mrs. Reed-
termination, but since I can not, you must al- and it happened that it was fortunate that she
low me to do what I can for you." did so, as that lady's house was full and she
Mr. Droll at once 'made inquiries for a good could not accommodate her. After many in.
ship for New York and secured passage for quiries and applications at different houses,
Mary on the Rockport, which' was then ready Mary was supplied with a place at Mrs. Scraps
to sail. At parting he' gave Mary the receipt on a cross street that was then considered far
for her passage home, and offered her fifty up town. It was' a dingy looking brick house,
pounds in gold, that she might not be without with granite steps, well worn, and a basement
money on her arrival in New York. But Mary below that looked like a dungeon. The win-
felt perfect confidence in her ability to earn dow blinds were dust covered and hung on
her own support, when she was once more in hinges that creaked forth a doleful cry when.
her native country, and the early lessons ever touched. The front doors and hall way,
learned from her mother, made her'f~eel a deli- were grease bespattered, and the grease by
cacy about accepting any more assistance long exposure had acquired a bard, burnished
than her circumstances made necessary. Mr. appearance, that would have shown with
Droll was urgent, however, in his offer, and striking effect, but that the balance of the
seemed to feel slighted at her refusal, she house was rapidly approaching an equal state of
therefore accepted from him ten pounds in dingy dirtiness. The furniture, originally
gold,                                    plain enough, had become marred and defaced
Mr. Droll parted with her with much regret by long use, the appearaAce of every thing


A TALE OF ANTE BELLUM TIMES.           '76    77                     MARDI GRAS;

about the place denoted that the inmates
lived, or rather "got along" with as ~Iittle
work as was possible. Mrs. Scraps was a very
tall woman, with a sharp, thin figure, a small
mouth, with lips that were drawn close, and
cheeks sunken and colorless. Her eyes were
sharp and darting, and seemed to read the
thoughts, at times, of those who applied for no.
accommodations, for by these quick glances she
decided whether she would get paid or not, and
was usually correct. The class that she enter.
tained~was made up of clerks, sewing women
and others whose incomes were too small to in-
dulge in many of the luxuries of life. Mary
was furnished with a small back room on the
second story and in it spent her time while in
tbe house, feeling too sad after the events of
the past few months to associate with the
other boarders. There was not much sociabili-
ty about the house, nearly all the boarders,
knowing the hours for meals, came in just in
time, and aftet~ hurrying through with their
repdst.lcft again, but there were a few who
frequented the parlor, from whence Mary of-
teji heard the sounds o~ loud talking, laugh-
in~ and singing, varied occasionally by a per-
formance on the piano, which though old and
ou~ of tune, was yet capable of producing that
which would pass for music to ears not thor.
ou~hly educated.
After thanking Captain Tollis for his atten-
tions, Mary had her baggage removed to her
ro~,m arid there sat down to write a letter to
her friend, Mr. John Droll, informing him of
her safe arrival in New York, and the thought-
ful attentions of C4iptain Tollis, informing
him also that the Captain was an American.
She now began to seek for some employment
which would yield income sufficient to pay
her expenses. She applied in many stores for
sewing without success, some had already en-
gaged their full compliment of hands, others
were .well supplied with manufactured articles
and a few considered it "between seasons,"
and would give out no more work for a time.
Thus two or three weeks passed awny, every
day was spent in making applications, now as
a teacher in some school, but here she was re-
fused generally on account of her youth,
again she would answer an advertisement for
seamstress or nurse, or ask for a position as
sales-woman in some millinery or fancy goods
establishment all without success.

One d~iy she stepped into an intelligence
office, w ich she had often passed before, and
had beg a to wonder if it was not possible
that she might get something to do through
that me mm. The old man who kept the
place, Ic ked surprised to see in his shop look-
ing for ork, one so young, good looking and
evidently carefully brought up, and asked
what sh could do. After hearing her qualifi-
cations, he said that for a fee of fifty cents in
advance he would register her name, and. if
possible procure a situation for her. Mary re-
plied that she might call again and went on
her way. She had not gone far, before a hand
was gently laid on her shoulder and a voice at
her side inquired, "I beg your pardon, Miss,
but are you looking for a situation ?"
The stranger was a man of thirty or thirty-
five years of age, with moustache and neatly
trimmed whiskers, light complexion and an
easy self-confident, air, not too ln'u8quc to be
agreeable.
"Yes, sir-I would-be glad to find a place,"
replied Mary.
"What can you do? What sort of a place
would you prefer," inquired the man.
"Well, really I would not refuse any means
of honestly earning a support,~~ she replied,
wondering what he wanted her to do.
'~ Exactly-but you have a choice I" he
asked.
"I think I could teach," she replied,
thoughtfully, "I have had a very good educa-
tion, but they all say I am too young."
"Not at all !" he exclaimed, "If you have the
education, your youth will be no objection."
"I ant very glad you think so, sir," she re-
plied, "for my money is nearl~r gone, and I am
anxious to do something."
"You have some money I"
''Oh! yes, sir, a little, forty~ or fifty dollars,''
she said, encouraged at the t~no of his voice,
"but of courBe I am anxious t~ get something
to do before that is gone."
"Very right, you're perfectly right," ho re-
plied, "and I am glad I met y~u, for we want
industrious, energetic persons like you."
"Do you want teachers, sit I?" she inquired.
"We want persons in every branch of indus-
try, arts and sciences," lie replied, with digni-
ty, "I am Andrew W. Hudlestone-you may
have heard of me. I am agent for~ the Great
Western Emigrants, Benefit and Protective
Industrial Association, we are engaged in

76

I,

sending the poor and unprotected from this
hot-bed of misery and crime to the bountiful
fields of the far spreading west. Already this
year have we rescued from hunger and starva-
tion, if not from a far worse fate, thousands of
residents of this over crowded city."
"Can I call at your office, sir I" she inquired.
"Office, Miss," he said, in injured tone, "we
have no office 1,ere. In this sinful place we
want "no 16c:sl habitation," although we have
a "name~~ that has already become the terror
to the wolves of this city. No-no -in the
beautiful city of Pietyville, near Innocence
Grove, in one of the most fertile valleys of
that beautiful country we have established
our head-quarters, and now in every directio11
we are spreading our influence, everywhere
the busy hum of the industry of a happy pee-
,ple may be heard."
"I could teach, besides English," said Mary,
anxious to make an impression on so dis-
tinguished a person, "needle work, embroidery
and music."
"You are just such a person ~is we want,"
he said, "you will prove in your dress and
manners an excellent example to the children
of Pietyville, and I have no doubt but that you
are competent as a teacher of all you have
np~ned. Yes, ~ on are just what is needed."
"I-I don't know how to get there," said
M ry.
'I have a company who are going inaday
or two," he replied. "There are Dearly a hun-
dr d of them in all, and I will call on you and
gi e you all the particulars. i'll call this
ev nin'~"
'The expense, sir-how much does it cost to
g there" she inquired.
'The passage and other expenses will be
about eighty dollars."
"I have not got that much, sir," she replied.
~ worry over that," he said, blandly.
"We pay your expenses to Pietyville out of the
association funds, and when you get there
twenty or thirty dollars a month Will be de-
ducted from your ~alary until the amount is
repaid. But yoi~ see that will be easy on you,
as we shall probably pay you seventy-five dol-
lars a ninth, and furnish you with board,"
"That i~ a very large salary," she answered,
delighted at the brilliant prospect before her.
"Oh, we pay well in the west. It is not
like here in this corrupt place," he replied

with enthusiasm7 "and the best enterprise in
the whole country is that of the Great Western
Emigrants Benefit and Protective Industrial
"I am very glad to hear it, for according to
your terms even the poorest person can go
there," said Mary.
"Yes, miss, no matter how poor they may be
so they are of good character," he replied,
with a severely honest look, I' but we admit
none but those who are strictly honest and re-
liable. No money is necessary-of course it is
well to have some money along in ease of ac-
cident-but it is seldom that emigrants have to
use it."
They had been walking up town during this
conversation, and when the gentleman said
that he could not go any further at that time,
Mary gave him her address, and he promised
to call at Mrs. Scrap's and see her. This he
did frequent ly during the next three or four
days, and dwelt so enthusiastically on the ad-
vantages offered by the Great Western
Emigrants' Benefit and Protective Industrial
Association, that Mary settled with Mrs
Scraps and prepared to leave for the serene
and beautiful city of Pietyville.
The expressi~inn called for her baggage, and
she took an omnibus and soon reached the-
Hudson River Railroad Depot, the point from
which the new additions to the western city
were to depart. Here she was met by Mr.
Andrew XV. Hudlestone, who excused himself
for not calling for her in person, by sayingthat
his timo had been so occupied with the other
emigrants and the details of their startingthat
he had not had time.
"There, sit down here." he said, when they
were in one of the ladies' cars, "the other
members of our company are in the forward
cars, but they are so crowded don't think you
could find a scat now. When we get on to the
Central road we will get a car to ourselves,
and I will introduce you. I'll be backin afew
minutes."
saying which he departed to take care of the
baggage and get the tickets for the company.
There was a busy crowd around the depot, and
the children that flitted  o and fro selling
cakes, candies, fruit and papers reminded her
of the time when she was an apple girl on the
streets of the groat city. Hard and trying as
were those days, she now looked back to them
with pleasure, and shuddered to thhik of the

77

MARDI GRAS:


MARDi GRAS;

A TALE OF ANTE BELLUM TIMES.             78   79

trials through which she had passed since that
time~ The car filled up rapidly and she knew
by the movements of those around her that
they were about to start when Mr. Andrew W.,
Hudlestono returned.
"I declare, there never was anything so un-
lucky," he said, "my cashier, instead of meet-
ing me here, as. I directed him to do, has gone
to the upper depot. It's too bad, for I am
short of money and cannot get the tickets."
"That is unfortunate," said Mary, anxiously.
"What will you do 7"
"I am only sixty dollars short," he replied'
in a low tone, "and if you have that much let
me have it, and I will return it at the upper
depot."
"I have not got so much," said Mary, pro-
ducing her portmonnaie, "but you can have
what there is."
"I will try and get th~ rest of some ot' those
in the front car," he replied, as he started in
that direction, after counting her money. "I
have fifty-two dollars here."
He left the car and in a few minutes more
they started for the upper, depot. She waited
his return, but as he did not come, ~he thought
he would join her at the upper depot. When
they arrived at that place there was a few
minute~ of noise and confusion, and then the
steam engine took them off at a rapid rate.
Still the agent of the Great Western
Emigrants' Be efit and Protective Industrial
Association di~l not come.
"Your ticket, miss," said the conductor,
stopping by h ~r seat.
"The gentle an with my ticket is in the
other car," sh answered.
The polite c uductor bowed and passed on.
'The train flew on ~niles and miles away from
the great city. Here, on one hand, was the
beautiful Hud on, rolling grandly to the sea,
with rocky cli A's on the other shore, here and
there a residence looking out from the forests
that lined the bank, and on the other side of
the road walls of hewn stone, high peaks, run-
ning brooks and prosperous villages.
"Tickets !" shouted the conductor, as he
entered the car. ~9ary did not know what to
du. She had no money and Mr. Hudlestone I
had not returned. "I have no ticket, sir,"
she snid to the conductor. "The gentleman
who was to have brought me one has not re-
turned."

The man looked at her for a few moments as
if studying her features and deliberating on
what he should do.
"Where were you going I" he inquired.
"To the west, sir," she answered.
"And who was the man you were going
with I" he asked, still looking curiously at
her, to see if she acted honestly.
"Hudlestone, sir."
"You gave him your money 7" he inquired.
"Yes, sir, I loaned it to him, but he said
he would give it back at the upper depot in
the city," she replh~d.
"Have you known him long 7"
"Only a short time, sir," she answered.
"He said he was agent for the Great West-
em Emigrant's Benefit and Protective Indus-
trial Association, and I was going to their city
in the west. He said there was about one hun-
dred other emigrants on this train going to the
same place."
-' I am sorry for you," he replied, "for you
never .will see your money or that sharper
again."
"What do you mean 7" Mary anxiously In-
quired.
"I am sure the fellow was an imposter," he
replied. "He has got your money; that is all
he wanted, and you will never see him again."
"What will I do 7" she asked, as the truth
became so plain. "I have no money and no
friends. What will I do 7"
"Well, miss, I can't say,~~ he replied. "This
is getting to be a common trick with the
sharpers, and ought to be stopped by the
police. It has left many a poor person without
iends and money."
"I would never, have suspected such a nice
1 oking gentlemm~n of so base an action," she
s id, "and now-dear me-what can I do 7"
"You had better go back to New York,"
a id the conductor, kindly, "I'll see 1~hat you
a e passed back free of charge.~~
Mary accepted his offer with many thanks
a d after a weary journey found herself once
more in the boarding-house of Mrs. Scraps.
That lady was not much surprised a~ her story.
She sneered at her verdancy and hoped it
would learn her a lesson.
CHAPTER XXI.
Once more Mary began the dreary round of
application for work, something that would

give her a living. Her money was now all
gone and the confidence that the possession of
even so small a sum gave hew, was wrecked
with its loss.
"Teacher-hum-yes, there's one vacancy,"
said Mr. Sa7eall, an ex-Onion merchantt, as he
looked over his eye-glasses at the youthful
candidate. "Don't think you'll do-too young
-no use."
"You do house work ?" said Mrs. Wilson, as
she threw herself on a sofa and eyed the girl
in a calculating way, "no-I don't want you.
You would get sick and be on my hands I
don't know how long."
"I am really sorry, cissy,~~ satd the good
nature Mrs. Plump, "but I have just engaged
a nurse for the baby. It's too bad, a young
thing like you, so well brought up, so lady-
like and tidy, should have to live out."
"Governess! Take you for governess in my
family!" said Mrs. Greeneyes, "a handsome
young girl like you-no indeed! My husband
is doubtful enough anyhow, but with you
here-no, I don't want you. Go. You look
brazen enough to make me sick I"
And so it happened that there was always
something in the way, until, heart-sore and
almost worn out, she applied for work to a
manufacturer of ready made clothing. The
man looked i~t her for a few minutes, evidently
considering whetherr it would be advisable to
try her or no~. At last he produced a bundle
of vests that~ had been cut out during the day,
and directed ~her to do the best with them she
could. Sh~ tooi~ the bundle and hurried home
with it. Mrs. Scraps was pleased to see that
she had obt~dned work, for she had begun to
feel uneasy about her pay, which was nearly
three weeks behind.
Mary worked industriously at the vests, ansi
when she returned with them on Friday the
proprietor of the store, after a careful exami-
nation of them, said they would do and paid
h~r for the work and gave her more. The al-
~, owance was small, but she hoped, by close
application, not only to pay her expenses, but,
little by little, to clear what ~he was already
behind.
I've changed you," said Mrs. Scraps, when
she returned~
"Changed me?" said Mary, not nndergtand-
ing what wa~ meant.
"Yes. I n~oved you on to the third floor,"

replied Mrs. Scraps. "A gentleman who
boarded with me two or three years, and then
left, came back to-day and wanted his old
room. He is a very nice man, Mr. SeUwell is~
and as you were in his room I had to move you
up to give it to him."
Mary could make no objection to this as she
was in debt to Mrs. Scraps, and was, in a
measure, dependent on her; but she felt zunch
grieved at the careless manner in which she
was treated, and the rough indifference shown
to her wishes and comfort. Hurrying to her
new room she put down the work she carried,
and taking a chair, leaned her head on the
bedside and gave way to the sad thoughts that
filled her mind~ She was alone, and felt with
crushing weight the troubles and trials that.
surrounded her. Her thoughts flowed back
over the time when her mother welcomed her
return every night to their little home in
Brooklyn, to~ the happy days spent with her
uncle, kind ]~'eter Droll, and of a~l the friends,
then so kind, Philip only remained, and he w~s
in a distant city. She had not heard from him
and migbt never do s~, yet she thought it
would be cheering to know that at least one
friend remembered her.
Recovering frofli her despondency, she re-
solved to work more constantly until free from
del~t to Mrs. Scraps. Early and late her needle
was going, and the time given to her meals
was begrudged, so intent she had become on
the hope of showing Mrs. Scraps that she
could be independent. Sometimes, as she
passed up and down stairs, she heard others
enjoying themselves in the parlor, or met Some
of the gentlemen on the steps or in the hall,
but she went quickly on thinking of her work
and the object to be gained by it. This con-
finement soon began to affect her health; her
cheeks were pale, her eyes black and sunken,
a nervous fever, with terrible headaches op-
pressed her, and ~it times she was obliged t~
rest from her work. One dark, rainy afternoon
she ventured out to return some articles she
had made, and when returning a sudden
shower came up, and, before she could get,
shelter, she was completely drenched with wa-
ter. By the time she reached home she was in
a violent chill, which lasted. for a long time
and left her in a high fever. On the following
day she was unable to get up at all, and when
Mrs. Scraps came up about eleven o'clock she
found her very sick. She was given a little

78


A TALE OF ANTE J3ELLUhL TiMES.             SO

tea and left to herself until dinner time when
a plate of soup was sent up, which she could
not eat, and at night the tea was repeated.
For three days this attention continuedbut,
on the fourth, the girl was so much worse that
Mrs. Scraps sent her son Johnny for Doctor
Keep. When the doctor saw the invalid he
shook his head dubiously and said that he
ought to have been sent for at least three days
before.
"Uncle Peter, you must go," said Mary,
opening her eyes and glancing wildly around.
"Don't think of me; I will get along."
'~She is out of her head," said Mrs. Scraps.
"Yes, she is a very sick girl," replied the
doctor, and, after some further consideration,
he wrote the preserijtion and gave directions
about her diet and nursing. As they came
down stairs some of the gentlemen who had
just finished dinner were standing in the ball.
"Get some ice and keep her head cool; gWe
her a little ice-water to drink," said the doct r.
"Let some one stay with her all the time and
give the medicine regularly.~l
"Couldn't she be sent to the hospital 7"
asked Mrs. Scraps.
"No, madam, not at all," replied the doctor,
positively. "If you moved her now it would
be sure to kill her, and without great care she
eann~t recover oven here."
"Who is 'sick?" asked one of the gentlemen,
after the doctor had left.
'~The girl that had your room before you
came back," said Mrs. Scraps.
"Indeed! I am sorry to hear it," said the
gentleman.
"Yes; I am sony, too," replied Mrs. Scraps.
"Johnny, g~ get a carriage.~~
"What for, mother 7" the boy asked.
"To take the girl to the hospital," said Mrs.
Scraps.
"You certainly do not intend to send her
away now," said the gentleman.
"Why not, Mr. SelIwell 7"
"She is too sick," replied Mr. Sellwell.
"Didn't you hear the doctor say it would kill
her to be moved 7"
"Ths; and he said that she mtst have a
nurse," said Mrs. Scraps, "and nourishment,
medicine and all that sort of thing."
"Well, of course she must," replied Mr. Sell-
well.
"Certainly! Oh, to be sure !" said Mrs.
Scraps, angrily, "but how is she to get them?

I can't get them. She owes me now for board,
and I am not bound to take care of all the
stray children of New York."
"Well, but-Mrs. Scraps-"
"John, get that carriage," shouted the land-
lady, stamping her foot impatiently.
"Not 50 fast, Mrs. Scraps," said Sam Sell-
well. "You shall not send her out doors for
want of money as long as I am here. I'll pay
the btlls; so lot her stay."
"You must be getting rich," said Mrs.
Scraps, with sarcasm.
"Not to hurt," replied Sam, "but you know
I always pay what I say I will, and so far as
that goes my word's as good as Mr. Barege's.
I don't know this girl, wore than I've seen her
two or three times passing up and down stairs,
but as long as I've got a dollar no poor creature
shall be turned out of a house I'm in for the
want of it."
"That may be very well for you, Mr. Sell-
well," replied Mrs. Scraps, still much out of
humor' as you have nobody but yourself to
look out for, of course you can do as you please
but I can't afford such luxuries."
"I say I'll pay' the bills," said Sam, with
eznphas~s, "don't that make it right 7 Get a
nurse for her and send for what is wanted. To-
night I'll bring you twenty dollars, gud more
hereafter if you need it."
"You'll pay all the expenses 7" inquired Mrs.
Scraps.
"Yes, I'll pay you the girl's board, too," re-
plied Sam. "What money I am short I can
get from our company. So, now, you must see
that she is well cared for."
"I'll do that," said Mrs. Scraps.
"Mind now," said Sam, impressively, "if I
find you neglecting or slighting her I'll leave
your house and never do another hands' turn
for you. Just see to it.'~
"Very well, Mr. Sellwell, I shall do all I
can," said Mrs. Scraps.
It was three weeks before Mary was suf-
ficiently recovered to leave her room. Mrs.
Scraps had informed her of Sam Sellwells'
generosity, and with a few polishes to her own
exertions in Mary's behalf, said that Mr. Sell-
well was the best man she ever knew. In the
evening Mary went down to the parlor and
was introduced to her benefactor and some of
the other boarders of tl~e house.
"I cannot express to ~rou the sense of grati-

81                              MARIJJ GRAS;
tude that I feel," she said to Sam, "for your nation that she had returned toNew York. He
kind interest in me. I shail always remember gave a bright account of his own prospects in
it with thankfulness, and if health is restored New Orleans, and asked her to come out there,
to me, I hope to be able to repay the expense assuring her that she could find a good situa-~
that you have been under for me." tion, and of the pleasure it would give him to
"Don't-don't say any wore," replied Sam, assist her.
feeliiig more embarrassed by her thanks than In reply she briefly stated her present occa-
he would hays felt in risking his life at a fire. nation, and expressed her pleasure at his good
"It is a pleasure to see you better. I hope you fortune. The correspondence thus begun
will get strong soon and meet with kind friends lasted for over two years. About that time
and success everywhere." the school in which she was engaged was
"I trust that I may, and my first effort will broken up, and~in looking for another sitna-
be to pay you." tion, Mary's attention was called to th0 follow-
"Excuse me, but I don't want that," he re- ing advertisement in *one of the morning pa-,
plied, "I am proud of the use made of this pers, which she at once resolved to answer:
little bit of money, and unless you am selfish, WANTlcD-As'trnveling companion to a lady
you will not deprive me of the pleasure, by now here on a visit, a young lady of educat~ou,
affable ii mperament, refined manners and good
repaying it."                            character. To such an one the greatest in-
"I hope I may get a situation soon," she ducements will be offered. Apply at Parlor B,
said. "I would like a music class, or a posi- Astor House.
tion in some good school."
"Do you understand mnsic 7" he said.
"Yes, music, drawing and embroidery were
taught at the school where my uncle, Mr.              CHAPTER XXVII.
Peter Droll, sent me," she answered.       The fig trees were budding forth, the peach
"Mr. Peter Droll, Peter Droll !" exclaimed and orange trees were in blossom, the gardens
Sam, "not Peter Droll that was a clerk at were full of fib vers and the people of New
Barege, Muslin &amp; Co.'s." Orleans were enjoying their early peas, cucum-
'~ Yes, sir; did you know him 7" she asked. hers and other choice vegetables, although it
"Know him! yes indeed I did," he replied, was yet in the month of February.' Mr. Dick
enthusiastically, "he was in the same stock Cheerful having kissed the folks at home
with mc. He was a good man; a real, fine, with an extra smack to the baby, put his hat
old-fashioned gentleman." on, and, drawing a long whiff at the cigar he
"He was, indeed, sir," she said, pleased to held jauntily between his teeth, started for the
hear him praise her uncle,               door, wlie, hi progress was suddenly arrested
"Where is he now 7" he inquired, by th'e remark from his better half that she
"He is dead, sir," she answered, s~rdly. wanted some money.
"Is it possible! Well I did not think he "Money! Sue-I haven't got any money,"
would live long," he said, "poor friend Pete, he replied, smiling.
he was a good fellow and I am sorry for him." "The children want shoes, and it's time to
Mary then related to Mr. Sellwell the par- buy spring clothes," said his wife.
ticulars of Mr. Droll's death, in which he was "Well, go get th~m," he replied, carelessly.
very much interested. Sam now interested "But you told me, Dick, not to make any
himself in getting a situation for Mary, and by more debts."
the time her strength was sufficiently recovered "That's so !" he 'replied, suddenly remember-
to allow her to accept it, he had secured a po- ing his resolution to make no more bills on
sition in a private school, where she was to credit, "by Jove, I can't help it now- I sent
teach a class iLl the usual studies and give to Mr. William BelJen, of New York, my usual
music lessons., present to my aunt, and I paid old Shavier one
A few days after she entered upon the dii of the note's he held, and that's taken all the
ties of this situation she received a lettenfrom money, so we'll just have to run our faces
Philip, who stated that he had just received a again."
'letter from Mr. John Droll, giving the news of It was so easy in those days to get whatever
the death of their friend Peter, and the infer- was wanted and "have it charged," that many
11.

81

MAR@l GR AS ;


A TALE OF ANTE BELLUM TIMES.              83                    MARDI GRAS;

'who were counted more prudent than Dick
were in the habit of "running their faces,"
and Dick, after a sh~ug of the shoulder and a
thoughtful roll of his cigar, troubled his mind
no more about the matter. When the new
clothes wer~ put on he praised the patterns,
admired the styles and claimed the "beverage"
on each new article. On the same morning
Mr. Macourty was walking up and down his
elegantly furnished office in deep thought, Mr.
Drowses had been sick for several weeks, and
had returned to his desk 6n the daybefore, but
in such poor health that it was evident that he
~onld not permanently resume his duties for
some time to come. Mr. Macourty was much
attached to him and felt very s'olicitons about
his recovery, but thus far all overt4 res looking
to a trip for recuperation had been~ refused by
his clerk. ~Ie had not made his 4ppearance,
although it was nearly ten o'cloc~r, and Mr.
Macourty had concluded that he w4s worse, or
had prudently remained at home. ~s he took
another turn in his walk, ho ever, Mr.
~rowsee entered the office, mnfile~l up in a
great coat of beaver cloth, with a large plaid
scarf aroi~nd his neck and his hands covered
with warm woolen gloves. He w~ s looking
miserable indeed, and took a seat w~th the air
of a man completely exhausted.
"Good morning, Len, how do yoti do feel ?"
eaid Mr. Macourty, cheerfully.
"I am getting better, sir," was the reply.
"I have been thinking of you," said Mr.
Macourty, seating himself near by and laying
his hands kindly on the others knee, "and I
have concluded that you must go off for a
trip."
"I don't think it necessary," replied Mr~
Browsee, with an effort to kok easy, "I am
getting better."
"I hoye you are, Len, I believe you are," re-
plied Mr. Macourty, "but next month is March,
the worst time in the year in a damp climate
like this for an invalid, and I am anxious that
you should pass it in Havana."
"The fact is, Mr. Macourty, I am not able to
do ~ said Mr. Browsee, ,"my house is not
quite paid for yet, there's a thousand dollar
n~ortgage on it, and I cannot leave it unpaid
for."
"I know your building has taken your
money," replied his employer, "but leave that
to me,"

"My mother and sisters-l have no cash to
leave with them and-"
stAll these objections are easily overcome,
said Mr. Maconrty, kindly, but with a manner
that settled the question "you can go from
here to Havana and from there across the
water, to Italy. Wherever you go with
our letters of introduction, you will find
friends, and our correspondents will cash your
checks for whatever money you require, which
will be paid at sight here-you need not shake
your head, they will not be charged to you,
but to expense account, ani your salary I will
pay to your mother the same as if you were
here-don't say a word, I have thought the
matter over well and that's what I say. Why,
my fricnd,~you have served me faithfully for
years, early and late, hot and cold, you have
always been at your desk. I am not one of
those who consider a clerk as a machine to be
worked as long and as hard as possible and
then kickedout? I value your services very
highly, but I value you as a man and a friend
more than as a clerk, and I am anxious that
you should regain your health and be once more
strong and hearty."
"But the books, Mr. Macourty," said Mr.
Browsee, so overwhhlined with his employers
kindness that he could scarcely find utterance*
for the words.
"Philip will have charge of the office," was
the reply, "he is young yet, but I think he will
get along. I have great confidence in him,
he's very steady, and ambitious too."
"You are right to feel confidence in him,"
said Mr. Browsee, "but he is young for so re-
sponsible a position."
"Yes, so he is," Mr. Macourty thoughtfully
replied, and then added cheerfully, "but that
is a fault that will lessen every day. He
does very well. I have already given him the
power of attorney and he took off th~ last
balance sheet without an error, as clean and
nice as if you had done it yourself-and I
could not say more !"
"I am very glad of it, sir," said Mr. Brow-
see.
"I have advanced his salary to twenty-four
~u hundred and he feels greatly elated," contin-
ued Mr. Macourty, "and will work hard to
bring things up regularly-so you see, we will
take care of the business while you are gone,
and when you come back you shall have an
interest in the house."

"Mr. Macourty I-really sir, I don't know blo, for the purchasing of it. I tried to manifest
how to thank you," replied the clerk,    no anxiety about the matter, and think I sue-
"You will please me most by following ~ needed pretty weil, as I gave him only one
hundred and twenty-five dollars for the cross,
directions in this matter," replied Mr. Ma- which I think it is fully worth. I then asked
court, "don't hurry back, take your time him how he had got it and all the particulars,
and if a year or two's absence restores your which are not ~v~ry full or encouraging, but
may be briefly stated as follows: the cross
health, the time will he well spent for yourself, was purchased of a girl, pretty well grown,
your family and inc."                    probably ten  or  fifteen  years of  age,
After a further discussion of the details of cannot tell exactly, was a good looking child
and seemed to have been well brought up,
Mr. Browsee~ t~'ip the merchant took his hat looked in good health and stated that she was
and went out to get posted in the markets and going to leave the city, said she had always
and see what was going on. As he had some owned the cross, that it had belonged tii her
at that mother, did not say where she was going, nor
business at the Bank of Loui~iana, who with, if anybody.~ He has not seen her
time the "Ajax" of the banking circles of since, but thinks he would know her, but
the South, he passed through the post office to about this, is not certain. I told him it was
see if there was anything there, a habit that important that I should find her, and that if
he was instrumental in tracing her up, I would
business men generally have,             give him one hundred dollars for his trouble.
The clerk, knowing him well, without being I told hfm the particulars of the case, and
asked, handed out a letter liost-niarked Mobile, being a man of good feeling, he Thok a deep
interest in it, and said that independent of
an inquiry about an expected shipment of any hope of reward he would do all that he
claret, and a small package, that might have could. Hoping that what I have doue will
contained a photograph or something of the meet your approbation, and awaiting your
further orders I am
kind. He turned it over, wondering what it Your obedient servant. Jon Bonxans."
was and then broke the seal and drew forth a This letter he read over several times, and
small package around whioh a letter was fold- then carefully examined the cross that h~d
ed, taking this off there remained a box, such
as is used by jewelers. This he opened and come with it, while he was filled with emotion
at the sudden re-appearance of this piece of
with an exclamation of surprise, drew forth a
small gold cross, richly studded with dia- amily jewelry, opening afresh the question
monds and bearing the inscription ~ M. c. of the whereabouts of his lost child. As he
February l6~h 1822." It was some minutes stood there, a flood of memories of the past
before he was sufficiently composed to open crowding his mind, Mr. MacVain was passing
the letter and read. by and stopped to speak to him.
"New York, February, 7th 1854. "Good morning, George, is there any thing
Dear Sir-Some years ago your daughter new ?" he asked.
suddenly disappeared from your residence, "News! yes, Percy! astonishing news," was
believing that she had been stolen, your wrote the excited reply, "after years of fruitless
to me, placing the matter in my hands to search, I have at Inst
trace her up, giving a description of the dress             got a      of our lost
and jewelry she wore at the time. After a long child."
and fruitless search I gave the matter almost "Indeed ?" cried MacVain, startled at the
up, thinking of it once in a while as incidents unexpected announcement.
connected with my profession recalled it to
my mind. A few days ago ~vhile searching "Yes, here is a cross that was given to my
a Pawn-Broker's shop for some articles re- wife, and bears the date of her birth. It was a
~ently stolen, I found in one of them, exposed present from her grand mother, and aur little
for sale, the enclosed cross. The pecu~arity
of the workmanship and the beauty of finish girl was often allowed to wear it to please her,"
struck me at once, and I asked permission to said Mr. Macourty, "here read this letter,
look at it. My surprise was great when I Percy, and see what you think of it."
found on it the inscription "C. M. C. February
16th 1822" which I remembered you had given Mr. MacVain read the letter with deep in.
me in your letters above referred to. Feeling terest, an interest which was heightened by
assured that this was indeed one of the pieces the exertions that he had made through so
of jewelry worn by your little, daughter when
she was stolen, I entered into negotiations many years to discover the child. The main
with the broker, Isaac Emanuel, who, by the points of the letter strengthened his belief
way, is a man of good character and very relia- that the match girl was the child they were

83

MARDI GRAS;


A TALE OF ANTE PELLUM ThIJES.

84

looking for? and he resolved to o'o to New York summons, given in a female voice, to "come
and see Bodkers and the pawn-broker, and get in," Mary entered the room and advanced a
all the particulars about the case thot he few steps towards the lady, who arose to meet
could. her, and then paused in the pleasant confusion
"There is some hope here, eh 7" said Mr. of a sudden surprise, for before her stood the
Macourty, as his friend finished reading.  lady to whom she had brought the apples so
"Yes, it is a ray of light," replied Mr. Mac many years ago.
Vain, thoughtfully, "the child left the city- Mrs. McDonald stood with the air of one
that's bad-but may lead to something-well who has met an old and dear friend, the famil-
it should lie followed UP." iar lines of whose face touches the long' dor-
"Certainly-I shall write to him at once," said mant chords of the heart with pleasant emo-
Mr. Macourty, "and tell him to prosecute the tion, while the lips refuse to utter the name,
search thoroughly. I will send him money and the mind races over the scenes of the
and tell him to spare no expense. What a past, vainly endeavoring to identify the visitor
blessing it would be if we could find her!" amongst the friends that lived in the years
When they separated Mr. Macourty went that are gone.
home at once, to coninunie~Lte the news to his "Do you wish to see me?" inquired Mrs.
wife. All her old hopes were fully revived by' McDonald, still admiring the beautiful face
the return 6f this familiar keep-sakethe story and faultless figure of her visitor.
of the lost child was t6Wagain and again in "Yes-if you please," replied Mary, much
the neighborhood, and for a time, Mrs. Macour- agitated at the strange meeting. "I come
ty, fostered thebelief that she would soon see to answer an advertisement."
her darling again.                         "Oh! yes-certainly, take a seat," and Mrs.
"Bodkers," said Mr. MacVain, musingly, as McDonald placed a chair near the one she bad
he left Mr. Macourty, "he is a friend of Wil- arisen from and now resumed.
ham's. This cross, may be the end of hope, or "Is the situation filled 7" Mary anxiously
the beginning of a long trail to search up the inquired.
child. Left the city he said-yes that is why "Oh! no it is not," Mrs. McDonald replied,
none of them could find her. She has cvi- "do you wish it 7"
deftly been compelled to sell that cross to  "If I am a suit~ib'le person, I should like it
raise a little money after the fire at Sander- very much," Mary replied.
bound's house- -the sad experience that I have  "What is your name 7" asked Mrs. MeDon-
had in many years of ceaseless energy in this ald.
pursuit leaves but small hopes that George  "Mary Collins."
will be successful. At any rate, I'll gc to New  "Mary  Collins-Collins-excuse me, but
York and start a new search in person, for I your f~ce is very familiar."
would give property, life, and everything, for  "You have forgotten me," said Mary, "but I
success in hunting up the child, and repairing could never forget your sweet face, and kind,
that great injury."                      encouraging manner. Many years ago, in this
very room, if I am not mistaken, I brought you
a basket of fruit and some change. You were
pleased with the poor apple girl, and said
CHAPT1~II xxiii.           such words of kindness that I could not forget
them."
The clerk at the Astor House directed one of
the servants to show Mary to parlor B, and as "Yes, yes, I remember, we have often spoken
she ascended the stairs she thought of the of that incident, my husband and I. It was
time when she had visited the same place as natitral that I should not remember you, for
an apple girl, and remembering the kind rc- then you were a little girl, now you are a
caption she had then received, wondered if she young lady," said Mrs. McDonald.
would be so fortunate on the~present occasion. "I am glad you remember me now," replied
The servant pointed to the door, and then, Mary.
seeing her hesitate, stepped forward and gave "Yes, it is not that," said Mrs. McDonald,
a gentle k'aock on the door. Answering the musingly, "the face is strangely familiar-well

I

I

it must be some imagination~" then, she con-
t nued, "~iary, your mother, I remember you
speaking of her, how is she 7"
"She has been dead for many years," was
the sad reply.
"I am sorry to hear it, Mary, very sorry,'?
said Mrs. McDonald, "the greatest loss we can
meet here on earth is the loss of a mother."
"Yes, Madam, her loss was a terrible one to
me."
"' You have received some education 7"
"Yes, Madam, through the kindness of a
dear friend, now, unfortunately also dead, I
have had very good advantages."
During the next hour, Mary related in a
simple, straightforward manner, much of her
past life, and in the narrative Mrs. McDonald
became much interested. After awhile Mr.
McDonald returned from a morning walk, and
was introduced to Mary. lie remembered,
when it was mentioned by his wife, their first
meeting very well, and greeted Mary very
kindly.
"Excuse me, Mary," said Mrs. McDonald,
rising and going to another part of the room,
"come here, Robert, I want to speak to you."
"Well, what is it 7" said he, smiling as he
joined her.
"She has come to answer that advertise-
ment," replied Mr. McDonald, "but you
promised that when I wanted to, I might
.ddopt-a child, and I have now selecteil this girl
-that is, if she will consent."
"Have you thought well of it? he asked,
thoughtfully playing with her hand."
"Yes-you know she is no stranger to us,'
replied Mrs. McDonald, "we know her to be
honest, her manner is good, she speaks and
acts like a person of refinement, she is hand-
sonic, and above all she is pure and innocent."
"I think so," was his deliberating reply,
"yes, I think so, and I approve of your 1
choice."
"But it must be as no step-child, Robert," I
said his wife, "if we take her she is ours and
must be received and respected as our child,
and when we go back to Louisiana we must i
complete the adoption according to the laws of
our State."
"Very well, my dear," said her husband, I
"all that I consent to, and may God bless and I
prosper your choice."
When the proposition was first made to a

MARDI GRAS:

Mary she humbly but firmly refused it, Mrs.
McDonald was surprised and grieved at this
unexpected return for her kindness, but had
set her heart so strongly on the projectthat she'
ur~ed the child for her reasons, setting forth
in glowing colors all the advantages of the
home and position she had been offered,
"Your offer is one that I will alw4s grate-
fully remember," said Mary, while the tears
coursed down her cheeks, "and that I would
accept if I could."
"Tell me why you can not," said Mrs. Mc-
Donald, persuasively, "whatever you say shall
be confidential,"
"I'll leave you to talk it over," said Mr. Mc-
Donald, as he arose to leave.
"No, sir, if you please," said Mary, "let me
say to you both what I have to say, and.Pwill
then leave the decision entirely in your
hands."
With much agitation and often stopping to
wipe away the tears that filled' her eyes, and
suppressing as much as possible her feelings
Mary told her story.
"And is that all my child," said Mrs. Mc-
Donald, putting her arm around Mary's neck,
and kissing her~repeatedly.
"I am done, you know all, replied Mary,
through her tears.
"There is nothing wrong or dishonorable
about what you have told us," said Mr. Mc-
Donald, himself deeply moved, "nothing for
which you are to be blamed, and, in fact it is
only an additional reason why you should ac-
cept our offer."
"Yes, my dear child," said Mrs. McDonald,~
caressing her, "you must stay with us. You
will find relief from all the cares and anxieties
bh~t have oppressed your young life."
Their plans for the future were fully discus-
ued. Mary was to be their child, to
~e known and treated as Mary MeDenald.
~fter their cou~sultation was over, Mr. Mc-
Jonald called a carriage an~ with Mary pro-
~eeded to Mrs. Scraps' to remove Mary's bag-
~age. It chanced to be the dinner hour, and
n the hall they met Sam Sellwell and Mary
introduced him to her new father.
"I am glad to see you Mr. Sellwell," said
dr. McDonald shaking him cordially by the
mud, "your kindness to Mary, whom I hav~~
:nown for many years, and have now adopted
s my daughter, will never forgotten."

85


A TALE OF ANTE BELLUM TIMES.            86   8                      A~    RS

"Don't mention it sir," said Sani, hiighly dq-
lighted at Mary's good fortune. "I have tried
to do a man's duty, and if you remember me,
now and' then with kindly feeling I shall be
filly repaid."
"Remember you! You are a whole-souled,
good fellow," replied Mr. McDonald, shaking
bands with him again, "I shall be glad to
have you call on us at the Astor House and if
you ever get down to New Orleans, you will
be welcome at my house as long as you choose
to stay."
Mrs. Scraps was all smiles and politeness,
and wished Mary all sorts of good luck, while
Sam helped them into the carriage and bid
them a cheering good-bye- .
The McDonald's remained in the 'cty for two
or three weeks, during which time uch addi-
tions were made to Mary's wardro e as were
required to fit her for the new sphere-in ocie-
ty to which she had been called, and her
adopted parents soon found that she was or-
thys of their highest love and esteem and that
in conversation, music, deportment, and al the
finer accomplishments of her sex, she w uld
reflect credit upon then and became a br ght
ornament to the circle in which she w uld
move. After they left the Astor House hey
went down on the Jersey coast to spend a few
months., Mary, although she wrote to Ph'lip,
did not mention her new position, any further
than to say that she had been very fortunate-
"Philip Cummings, New Orleans !" said Mr*
McDonald, as he took her first letter 'to rmail
it, and with'a sly twinkle in his eyes, turned
it over and over, "I did not know you were
acquainted with Phil."
" Oh! yes, sir," she replied, modestly blush-
ing," he was a clerk with Mr. Droll, and spent
many of his evenings over with uis."
" Ah!I yes-well that's so," he replied, " I re-
member h'e told me last winter that he was
a dry good's man here. Phil is a promising
"ou he h as l mod in hi eers, sir," she
answered.
"there's not  any mn at his age that holds
the per pro of such a house as George Macour-
ty's and on such a fine salary."
" Philip deserves his success, sir," she re-
"lSo he dos   said ho, laughing, " I am not
saying he don't, am Ii But ho could not have

fallen into better hands, for FIl make no ex-
ceptions, my old friend George Macourtyis the
best, most liberal, most honorable~ merchant I
ever knew.n"
" You may well say that," said MrA. McDon-
ald, "he is a good man in every respect, a
good Catholic and lives up to his religion,
which is more than some men can say that I .
know."         -a        -    '
"Now you needn't be hinting at me," Mr.
McDonald, good naturedly replied. "I am
sure I went on Easter, and that ought to satis.-
fy y6u.n"
" I did not say a word about you, Robert,"
said his wife, laughing, " I think you are
coming out fnely."  .                  .
"And will be a good boy, bye and bye," ho

added.
" I expect so," she replied.

CIIArTgR XXIV.
Mr. MacVain had been two months among
his train of detectives and followers in New
York, looking for traces of the lost child.
Williams had made inquiries again and again
in every direction, and Bodkers repeated his
opinion that "it was a puzzler," and to Mr.'
MacVain's offers of reward replied that he
could not do more if he was to be made Presi-
dent by success. Mr. Emanuel, the pawn
broker, gave as little satisfaction in the mat-
ter. He was sure he had purchased the cross
from a girl, but it was many years ago, how
many he could not tell. He thought she was
about t welve years old, but she might have
been a year of~ two more or less, as he was not
a very good judge of people's ages. Her hair
-might have been black, but he thought it was
brown. It was not unusual for him to buy
pieces of family jewelry ;it was an everyday
occurrence. His customers comprised all
classes. Sometimes they were old and infirm,
and seemed ready to part with life, now that
theli- keep-sakes and heart-treasures were
going; again they were young and the value
of friendship and the halo of association had
not 'yet been impressed upon their hearts-.
Some entered timidly as if dreading the morti-
fication of an exposure of their poverty, while
others pame with an easy nonchalance showing
that they were no strangers to such places.

86

Some were dressed in the tawdry finery of a
,butterfly, that told plainly their character and
calling, and it was a strange study to notice
with what different emotions these parted
with, it might be, the last lingr that connected
them with once happy and honorable homes.
Others were clad in the simplest dress that
innocence and poverty, often refined by the
memory of brighter days, could wear. In this
crowd of young and old, high and low, modest
and 1;razen, making a continual, never ending
round of characters, why should he notice
one customer more than another If he had
known-ah, yes--if he had even suspected
that such an interest would have been mani-
fested in the girl who quietly accepted his
offer and left witpiout particularly attracting
his attention, he would have been more care-
ful in noting her looks and actions.
Disappointed in his hopes of getting at least
one defliiite point to start from, Mr. MacVain
resolved to quit the city for a time and visit
some of the fashionable resorts, so numerous
around, and convenient to, the great city.
At Long Branch he found a large crowd of
visitors, many of whom he knew, and here they
all seemed devoted to a continual series of
pleasures. Tired of chatting, music and
dancing, he started one morning 'early for a
-walk through the country. Through lanes,
over.pa'stures and beneath the shade of forests,
he strolled on, not minding where his wander-
ing would lead him. He came at last to the'
banks of a basin or inland bay, back of the
long, sterile strip called Sandy Hook, and the
placid look of the water pleased him well. A
boatman in a small skiff was just preparing to
leave the shore and he asked him where he was
going.
"To Little Silver," the man replied, pointing
to the opposite shore. " Do you wish to go
over I"
Feeling in a mood for adventure, Mr. Mac-,
Vain answered in the affirmative, and, seating
himself in the boat, was soon gliding over the
mirror-like surface of the water, which was so
clear and placid that the pebbly bottom could
often be seen. Rounding the point, the boat
shot up idto Little Silver creek, a small run-
ning stream, on the banks of which were
several fine residences, groves of fruit trees, 8
lands and lawns with large shade trees, and in
the distance, fields of luxuriant gi-ain. C
Passing from the grassy bank of the creek to ~

the main road, a broad, old, country road, Mr,
MacVain walked on beyond the few houses on
the point and was once more getting into tha
open country, when he observed the approach
of a lady, and slackened his pace that he might
observe her as she passed. She was young,
near the age so often~ sung about "sweet six-
teen," her form was perfect, tall,.dignified and
queen-like, with such a walk and manner as
might have graced the kingly courts of the
days of "belted knights and fair ladies." The
expression of her face was a happy blending of
firmness and decisive character, with purity
and child-like innocence; her mouth -was
small, with rosy lips firmly closed; her eyes
were large, and of that blue which, in medita-
tion or calm repose, look dreamy and melting,
yet when aroused to feeling and under excite-
ment, sparkle with a brilliant and dazzling
light. The bloom of her complexion would
rival the first blush of rosy morn, falling upon-
the velvety softness of the mellow peach, and
around her presence there wa4 an air of re-
finement, cultivation and worth, which capti-
vated the admiration and respect of all behold-
ers.
As she passed he stood spell-bound as in a
dream, while thp bright vision of some youth-
'ful fancy was realized in her. He waited a
while and then followed at such a distance as
not to attract her notice. At a distance, as he
again approached the few dwellings on the
point, he saw a. gentleman coming-towards
him, and, as he joined the lady, MacVain
recognized his old friend, Mr. Robert McDon-
aid, and, quickening his steps, he soon came
up with them.
" Why, how are you, my dear Percy, I am
glad to see you '? exclairlied Mr. McDonald,
topping in his walk.
" Well, very well, thank yen," answered Mr-
MIacVain, casting and inquiring look on the
Lady.
"My daughter, Mary," said Mr. McDonald,
noticing his friend's look. "Mary, this is my
friend, Mr. MacVain, of New Orleans."
" I am proud-to meet you, Miss McDonald,"
said Percy, with a puzzled air, as if he did not
know what it meant.
"As a friend of my father's I am pleased to
ee you," Mary replied, with dignity andgrace.
They conversed pleasantly until they reached
ne ogf the houses on the side of the road,
when Mr. McDonald said: "Here is where wer

87

MARD1 GBAS;


A TALE OF *NTE BELLUM TIMES.            88  89                     ~ABD1 GRAS;

are staying. Mary and my wife preferred ~'
quiet country house to a fashionable resort.
Come in and see my wife; she will be very
glad to see you."
Mrs. McDonald welcomed Mr. MacVain in a
friendly manner, and some time was spent in
conversation, after which they had dinner,
ai~d then, going to ~the parlor, Mary played for
thorn some of the most popular music of the
day, varied, by request, with some of the old,
familiar melodies, the popularity of which
~bids fair to last through all time.
An excursion was then propmcd, and, pro-
curing a line, large boat, th~y took a sail down
'~h~ creek, around the bay and back to the
wharf again, ais4ving just in time to hear the
~estio old bell clatter out the summons to sup-
per.
"By Jove, Mac," said Mr. MacVain, "I like
your quiet retreat so well that, if I thought it
i~ossible to get a room, I would come' over and
s~ay a few days."
"That's a capital idea," replied Mr. McDon-
ald, much pleased. "Old Mr. Binger can give
you a room, I am sure, and if you come over
we'll have a jolly time."
Mr. Binger, the landlord, was consulted, and
a room was assigned to Mr. MacVain. A car-
riage was then furnished in which he returned
to Long Branch, and, having settled his ac-
count there, he appeared, early next morning,
among his friends at Little Silves."
"Come Percy, we are going crabbing," said
Mi~. McDonald, as he appeared on the porch of
the house, a great straw hat on his head, and a
long pole, with a net at the end, over his
shoulder. The ladies appeared in sea shore
hats) and the company went down on the
wharf. Tl~e net was handed over to Mr. Mac-
Vain, with . instructions that, when the crabs
caught the bait, he should slip the net under
and bring them up, which kept him busy, as
there were three lines out and the crabs
were not slow at biting. At first he was a
little awkward. Once, while catching for
Mary, he came near falling into the water and
taking her in with him. He soon became, how-
ever, as expert at this and the other sports of
the place as any of the visitors, of whom there
were some forty or fifty at Mr. Linger's. Days
aud weeks rolled ou in this secluded. spots
where all followed the bent of their own
i~nclinations. Now fishing, bathing or boating
oa the creek or bay, at other times riding

though the country, the scenery of which was
interesting and beautiful, and at times these
rides~ would extend to Long Branch. Here Mr.
MacVain asd the McDonalds met many of
their friends from the South, to whom Mary
was always presented as the daughter of the
latter, and many pleasant dinner parties and
excursions resulted from these visits. One of
Mr. McDonald's favorite trips was to cross the
creek in their boats, taking with them a good
lunch, and to ramble off into the pleasant
woods until tired, when the servants would
bring up the refreshments, which they would
arrange on the ground. Then, seated beneath
the grand old trees, the party would spend an
hour or two in pleasant conversation, relating
quaint or amusing stories, at which Mr. Mac-
Vain had a happy and telling manner. He
would often join Mary in singing some song or
favorite melody, making the forest iing with
the music of their voices. In the evening they
would take a sail; or stroll through the gar-
dens, or, remaining in the house, the time
would pass rapidly away while they amused
themselves at whist or euchre, or joining with
other parties in the house,, dancing, 'music and
conversation would soon fill up the hours.
In the pleasures of the present Mr. MacVain
had buried the cares, anxiety and remorse of
the past; and in the enjoyment of the society
of his friends, for the time, at least, the dis-
appointments of his long and fruitless search
for the lost child were forgotten.
A new existence had dawned upon him, and
it seemed as if the spring-time of life had re-
turned, shedding its rosy hues on all that he
saw. He was Mary's constant companion and
joined with sympathy in her every mood, sang,
laughed, danced and played, or with medita-
tive air promenaded the shady lawns, oi~ sat in
their - boat listlessly beneath the tranquil
light of the moon on the silvery waters,
drinking in the melody of her voice as she
discoursed of religion, science and literature,
~r of departed friends, or as, with depth
of feeling she, in harmonious tones, breathed
forth in song some devotion to the IMessed
Mother, or with enthusiasm awakened the
echoes of wood and shore with the full melody
of the grand anthems of the Holy Church.
As he watched her 'in these varying moods,
it seemed as if, going back through the dim
vista of departed-aye, lost-.years, he once

more stood within the halo of his youthfu
days; the simple chapel, where, by his mother'i
knee, he had so often knelt in devotion; tha'
fond mother's smiles and caresses; her prayer
for her often hoadstring boy, the only hop
and consolation of her life; all came back t(
him, and he longed once more to feel th~
soothing influence of that religion, which ha~
been his guide and coi~solation in those youth
ful days. When his mind returned once mor
and he looked into Mary's blue eyes, so full o
depth and ethereal beauty, or flashing bright
with mirth or soul-stirring feeling, when h(
looked upon her clear, fine forehead, he
rounded, dimpled chin and her mouth small
lull and beautifully formed, he thought of th
love his heart had known so many years be-
fore, and wondered if it was indeed warming
again to a new, and, he thought, not less
worthy object. He had proposed to stay for a
few days at Little Silver, but the days
lengthened into weeks, and he still remained,
often proposing to go "next Monday" or
"Wednesday" but always allowing some new
excursion to defer his departure.
Servant's are shrewd observers of the ac-
tions and motives of their employers, and in
this the old time negro servants were equal to
any that ever were "in service." With the Mc-
Donald's there were three colored servants,
John, a likely boy, of forty years, or thereabouts,
who attended to the baggage when-they were
traveling andzacted as a general body-servant;
Linda, some five or six years his junior, great
talker, and Sarah, a young girl, about sixteen
years of age, who had especially attached her-
self to Miss Mary," or "young missus2' These
were all negroes . of the blackest type, and
possessed that pride, superstition and rever-
ence for "master's family," which characterizes
the real negro. ~
~ God, I b'leve Mis'r MacVain are in
love with young missus," said Aunt Linda, as
the three sat together in front of the kitchen.
"Him! you tink young missus look at him I"
said Sarah.
"Why not? he's a nice gentl'm ain't he I"
inquired John.
Why,. he's done bin old 'nuf to be her fad-
~ said Sarah.
"I ain't a gwinu te say dat young missus
tink of him," said Aunt Linda, emphasizing
her views by gestures with her arms and nod-

1 ding of her head, "1 dunno bout dat, but I
tell you what, he tiuk a heap o' her. I dun
see ~ fur dat."
"He's berry perlite, as a gen'l'm ought be,
but I dunno 'bout-" said Sarah.
"Don't tell me; ain't I seen white folks 'nuf
to know I" said Linda. "Can't I see? I know
dat he tinks heap ob her-ebbery whare she
- goes dar you. sure to see him, and de 'ten-
sions what he pays her, it's just 'nuf to make
it plain dat he lubs her shua !"
' I say he's too ole," said Sarah, with a toss
of her head.
"He ain't so berry ole, neifer," John an-
swered. "He's a rite young man, an' a mitey
han'som one, too, an' he's got plenty money 1"
*   "What's young missus want nv munney?
Ain't massa got heaps ob it I" replied Sarah,
indignantly. "What you tink she care ~
niunney', when inassa an' missus bofe dun
tole her dat wot's theirs is hem? A ba'(cl
young angel like her ought to ~et a nice young
man when she marries."
They continued their discussion until called
to serve those to\ whom they were attached.
Linda thought Mr. MacVain was in love with
Mary. John, who had been favorably ioi-
pressed by sundry quarters and half ~ll.r
pieces from Mr. MacVain, thought tkat it
would be a very good match for Mary; while
Sarah, as the one nearest to Mary, thought he
was too old and indignantly denied all proha-
bility of such an event.
When Mr. McDonald ordered the trunks
packed for a trip, as he said, to show Mary
something of the world, Mr. MeVain became
one of the traveling party. They visited St.
Catherine's Wells, Montreal, Niagara and Sara-
toga, viewing the novelties and curiosities ef
these well known summer resorts, and enjoy-
ing the change of scenery and the gay society
found at them. One morning after their return
to the Astor House, Mr. McDonald having
nearly completed his arrangements to go home,
met Mr. MacVain, who requested him, to go
into the reading room to hold a few moment
conversation in private.
"You are going home soon ?" inquired Mr.
MacVain.
"The first of next week," replied his friend,
wondering what was coming.
"Miss Mary will go with you I"
"Certainly, for although, as you know, she
is an orphan, I have adopted her as my daugh.
12

88

89


ter, and as such I wish her to feel and ac, said
Mr. McDonald. " When I get home I shall com-
plete the adoption according to law, and those
who wish to be my friends must know and re-
ceive her as my daughter."
"I have your permission to 'visit her when
you get home ?"
" Why, Percy, -what a question I of course
you have."
"lBut, you do not understand me," replied
Mr. MacVain, "I wish to become a suitor for
her hand." .
" This is a subject on which I would tolerate
no trifling."
" Trifling! I never was more serious in my
life," said Mr. MacVain,."I1 ive your daughter
sincerely and would ipake he~ my wife."
" Humph, Percy, you are too old for such a
young girl."
" I am not too old to love sincerely;" replied
Mr. MacVain, in a calm, dignified tone. " I'
can honor and protect her, arid if I am a little
old, my feelings are but the deeper and more
unchangeable."
"Well, 'pen my honor, I ever thought of
that before," said Mr. McDon ld, " but it may
be for the best. You are one of my most inti-
mnate friends, and I have always esteemed you
highly, Percy, so I will say that if you can win
her you may have her-but her will is to be
perfectly free-, her actions and choice unfet-
tered."
"I have your consent to try i" inquired Mr.
McVain, unh pleasd.
*" Yes, yes, you have; but, mind, I give you
no encouragement and no unfair advantage.
The field is open and if you win you shall have
my blesing, but if you loose you must take it
like a man."'-
CHAPTER XXV'.-
The absence of Mr. Browsee, who was look-
ing for health in foreign countries, brought
Philip prominently forward, and he soon be-
came well known amongst the merchants and
business men of the city. The cofidence re-
posed in him by one so well known and highly
respected as Mr. Macourty, gave him at once
a standing and weight in the community.. He
was soon a favorite with the young men who
approximated his own age, and amongst them.

90

they formed a circle, where plans for mutual
amusement were brought up and carried out.
His especial favorites were William Malureath,
the favorite clerk of one of the private bank-
ing houses of the city; Louis rontane, the son
of a wealthy broker, and Carl Amber, whose
father was a prominent cotton-factor, and with
these there were some ten or fifteen others all
regarded as -the most promising young metn of
the city. They went in a crowd and were al-
most inseperable; they broke the chrysalis of
youth and took the airs and manners of men
at about the same time. At first the pleasure
of a good havana cigar, a stroll through Jack-
son Square on Sunday evening, a game of
billiards or ten-pins, with an occasional visit
to the lake, made up the sum~ of their indul-
gences, but as one ventured a little further. on
in the road of pleasure and dissipation, the
others soon came up to and passedhis standard, 7
until they were known as a "fast crowd," at all
the saloons, livery stables and public places of
the city. Philip became lukewarm in attend-
ance at church, dodged in and heard a low mass
or heard none at all, called less frequently at
Mrs. Macourty's and made shorter visits, and
.avoided speaking about the manner in which
spent his time. Mr. Macourty mentioned
to his wife his fear that Philip was going
astray, but she looked upon Philip as a sbn,
and, with the confidence and love of a mother,
would credit no report of the kind. In May
the family went as usual to Biloxi, and Philip
was left to himself; not only as to the eccupa-
tion of his leisure time, but also in the man-
agement of the business, Mr. Macourty return-
ing to the city for a day or two, now and then,
just to see that everything went right. Du-
ring this summer the, young men formed the
Crescent Dramatic Club, with rooms on Ca-
rondelet street, and here games of cards and
chess, with a varied assortment of reading
matter, were provided. It was a copy on a
small scale and in modest style of the Pelican,
Commercial and Delta Clubs, established by .
their seniors. Philiphadcorrespondedregularly
with Mary, but in the fall, just after Mr. Ma-
courty's family returned to the city, he was
surprised to receive a letter from her request-
ing hian not to write any more until he heard
from her again. What could this mean Had
the news of his dissipation reached heri He
half feared that it had, but resolved to wait
and see when she would break the silence'.

A TALE OF ANTE BELLLUMl TIMES.

MARDI GRAS;

91

About a month afterwards he went to Mr
Macourty's to spend the evening and was r
ceived by Mrs. Macourty in the same kind an
friendly manner, as had always been her en
tom. No allusion was made to the change
his conduct, because~ she believed that if hi
was really going astray, he would be reclaime
sooner by kindness than by having his fault
continually spoken of. The children were ou
visiting at Mrs. Cheerful's when he arrived
but soon came in.
" Well, how is Mrs. Cheerful ?" said Mrs. Ma
courty, after the salutations of meeting ha
passed. .
" Oh! she is well and all of the children
too," replied Annie, in a joyous manner, " an
Mrs. McDonald's home, we stopped there as w
were coming back."
" I am glad to hear she is back,'' replied herm
mother. " How is she ?"
"She is very well," said Annie, "and you
ought to see her daughter!"
" Her daughter ?" exclaimed Mrs. Macourty,
" Yes, ma, her daughter," replied Annie,
" Mary McDonla. Oh ! she is' the sweetest
girl you ever saw, so winninng in her manner,
so good natured. I declare I loved her the
moment I saw her." ,
" Well, Annie, you are an enthusiast any-
how," replied her mother.
" Ask them if I am not right," said Annie,
pointing to the other children. -
" She is really a beautiful young lady," re-
plrie George, " and worthy of all Annie's
praise--..
" A young lady," said Philip, " I did not
know Mrs. McDonald had a daughter.n"
"She has long been talking of adopting a
child," replied Mrs. Macourty, "and I pre-
sume this is some one she has taken in that
way."
"She has made a splendid choice," said
George. :
S"Indeed, she has," said Annie, her eyes
sparkling with delight, "she is worthy of
being anybody's daughter-you ought to hear
her sing!"
"I shall certainly go down and see this
prodigy," replied her mother.
" Who is that ?" asked Cecelia, just then
coming in.
"Mrs. McDonald's daughter," answered An-
nie.

s.   " Didn't know she had a daughter," replied
e- Cecelia, carelessly.
d " She has probably adopted her as such,"
s- said Mrs. Macourty,
n "I don't see what she wanted to do that for,"
e replied Cecelia. "It's strange what luck in
d getting homeslsome gutter rats have."
;s "Fie, fie, Cecelia, you should not speak so,"
*t said Mrs. Macourty.
," Come down with us to see her to-morrow
evening," said Annie, " and you will think as
-I do."
d" I don't want to go. These folks that are
picked up from nothing and suddenly get into
,good positions put on too many airs for me."
d" You have not seen' her; wait till you have
before you judge so harshly," said Mrs. Ma-
courty.
" I don't want to see her," and Cecelin
seated herself at the piano and began totturn
over some music.
" Mrs. McDonald told me to ask you, pa and
Cecelia to come down to-morrow evening,"
said Annie to her mother, " will you go ?"
" Yes, my dear," said her mother, "and we
will tax Philip's time to come and go with us."
Philip would rather have been excused, but
considered it good poic toacp -h ivt-
tion, and on the following acceningthe wnt
with them to Mrs. McDonald's house. The
parlors were well lighted and several friends
of the family had called in to see them after
their summer tour. Mrs. McDonald and Mrs.1
Macourty hving brens schoolmatre were
was now most cordial. Mr. MacVain was also
present and the children were especially de-
lghted to see him.
"Come up stairs," said Mrs. McDonald to
her old friend, ."I want to introduce you to my
daughter."
"I shall be pleased to see her," replied Mrs.
Macourty. '" Phe'children have done nothing
but praise her since they were here."
As they started to go out, the door opened
and Mary entered, and with a graceful, self-
possessed manner advanced to meet them.
"I am happy to meet you, daughter," said
Mrs. Macourty, as she gave Mary a loving kiss.
"I have heard good reports about you from my
children, and I am sure you are deserving of
them."
" Thank you, thank you," replied Mary,


A TALE OF ANTE BbLLUM TIMfES.

warmly returning the salutation. "I hope
that we shall always be gqod friends."
Philip, whose astonishment at finding Mary
50 unexpectedly was very, great, now came foi -
ward.
"I hardly know whether to greet you as
Mary," he said, in a voice scarcely audible
from the emotions struggling within him, " or
to bow to a ne\v acquaintance in Miss McDon-
ald."
" Between old friends, Philip," she replied,
extending her hand with a pleased look, "nevi
circumstances need bring no cold formalities."
Mr. MacVain, who had been surprised by the
recognition between Mary and Philip, watched'
them attentively, as they were together often
during the evening, and the iook of tranquil
happiness, or merry, joyous pleasure that shone
at ties on Mary's face, as Philip, in his best
mnood, chatted of the fashions, related anec-
dotes, criti'cised the new books and plays, or
joined in Pie song or dance, as he looked upon
her during these changes he feared that hehad
discovered in Philip a formidable rival. Mr.
Macourty came later, and with him' Mr. Mc-
Donald, and the evening pas d pleasantly -to
all.                          -   '
" I was glad to see Philip there," said Mr.
Macourty t his wife, after they had returned
home.   '/           ,
" It seems they are ol friends," replied his
wife. " Mrs. McDonald says they have cor-
responded ever since Philip came here."
"She is a charming girl," said Mr. Macourty,
" my heart warmed to her the megnent I saw
her.",.
"And mine ! I never met any one with whom
I was so well pleased."
"I trust that she will have a good influence
on Philip," said Mr. Macourtg, " and win him
back from the fast crowd he has fallen in with."
"I don't-think Philip is very wild," said his
wife, while the anxious tone, of her voice told
that she feared he was.
" He has been going it pretty loose," was the
reply. ," His .salary is drawn nearly a month
ahead, and there are unmistakable signs that
he is going the road to ruin."
" I hope that it is not so bad as you thnk"
replied Mrs. Macourty.
Philip was pleased to find Mary grown so
much and for a time was very attentive to her,
but thie influence of the club and an imagined
change in her manner to him worked upon his I

mind until he became almost a stranger at
Mr. McDonald's. One evening as he entered
the Crescent Club, carelessly sauntering in
smoking a cigar, he heard some of the mem-
bers talking of Mary and praising her earnest-
ly. The universal favor in which she was re-
ceived created a feeling of jealousy with him.
If he had met her in poverty, struggling to
maintain herself, he 'Would have rushed to her
assistance and would have made any sacrifice
for her. He found her now surrounded by
every comfort, in the midst of'elegance and
refinement, with friends who were deeply de-
voted to her and hosts of admirers ever ready
to flatter and praise, and having looked'for-.
ward to their meeting with the hope that he ,
would then guide her actions and monopo-
lise her society, he became sensitive of every
1ook and word.
9ne of the visitors of, the Club was Col.
Sp des, who, having received an invitation
frou one of the inembers to call at the rooms
didl so and continued hie visits regularly, not
an evening passing without his spending a
par i of it there. He was not long in starting
parties in games of cards at which the betting
was often very large, and through which he
always passed largely the winner. He man-
age~l his points well, flattering the members
ang paying deference to their judgment, so
that he was soon a favorite with the whole
Club. His bland and affable manner, gentle-
manly bearing and handsome dress, with a
continual talk about his horses, plantation and
negroes, his money in bank and estates on the
Hudson, all of which were dwelt upon and yet
in a manner .that avoided the appearance of
boasting, made a deep impression on Phillp,
and, as the Colonel was particularly friendly
to him, the card parties were seldom made up
without himn.
When Philip was-short of money in settling,
his losses, the Colonel accepted his note,, de-
claring with marked politeness that it made
uo difference, any other time would do.
At last the season closed and the Colonel an-
nounced in the Club that he was going to see
about his estates in the North, collect his divi-
dends in New York, and see the world at the,
fashionable resorts, and the news was received
with much regret by the members, who were
sorry to loose the gallant Colonel.
It required some financeering on'Philip's part
to raise the six or eight hundred dollars that

2

r
t
s1
h
p

he was behind with the Colonel, but he felt happy blending of domestie, loving qualities,
too much pride in his name to think of hesi- with the gay apid brilliant accomplishments
tating about the matter. He therefore bor- that ornament the social circle. ~he was tall
rowed the money and took up his notes. and well formed, with a mild, .weet fage, a
broad, fine forehead, luxuriant auburn hair
. and sparkling, bright eyes. In company she
helped Dick when he sang, her conversation
CHAPTER XXVI. 'was light and vivacious, or, when appropriate,
"Dick, the children want to go to the lake,,, sober, earnest and well expressed. She enjoy-
said Mrs. Cheerful, as her husband stood h9ld- ed that which was gay and&amp; amusing, or sym-
ing the burning match ready to light his cigar.- pathizgd earnestly in whatever brought cut the
They had just finished their breakfast, and the nobler and more serious feelings. At home she
little ones stood around anxiously awaiting was the center of the circle of lore ; happy
Mr. Cheerful's reply. and contented, attention to 'every duty and
"I'dd like to go myself," he replied, with a every want. It would have puzzled, a good
comical shake of his head. applying the match judge of human nature, had he studied the
and ivig afewvigrouspufs a hi ciar. question, to have told whether she or lier bus-
" Now, papa, can't you say yes I" remonstra- bandired te them;se, tuhe eerffehredony
ted Edward, the oldest of the boys, and jusdgmetorwie, the ;feeliny ewer dieed in,
Charles, Nelly, Julia, Susan, even do wn to lit-udmnorwsetefeigasbidas
tleDavd, rie i a hors, Plasedopap."deep as the waters of the Atlantic, and never
" You have sent- the remittance for yourcaetthsirc.Tecilenwetand
aunt, havn't you I" inquired Mrs. Cheerful, from early infancy to ready, immediate, un-
" Oh, yes, long ago," replied her husband. questioning obedience, and the foundation
"I'm tolerable~easy so'far as money goes. All being thus early laid, as they grew up, a look,
I ow  isa tousad t ol Shaier an  hea motion of the head or raising of a finger,
[onw n hii  ne a sthongaas t    hvieresndis was all that was required.
pa 'idn."   s m n y  sl nga  heitreti      "Going  to  the  lake," was a great  recreation
"Well, don't you thipk we can go ?" she for the family, o ie that was indulged in two
~sked.                                   or three times each summer, and was alluded
"I expect so," he said, Ftooping down to play to throughout the year with great delight,
with the children. *                       " Hurrah ! bully ! won't I catch the crabs,"
"When ?" she next inquired,             shouted Edward, starting off to the play room
" Why, my dear Sue, iuy time you like," he to get his kite strings.
eplied, "I'm agreeable to ,a day's fun any  "I doin' tech tawfish," said David, as he
ime."                                   toddled after him.
" I will ask Mary McDonald to go with us," "Ma can I take my doll I' asked Nelly.
hie said. .--" Well, I don't think I would, it might get
" All right, ask who you like," he replied, broken," replied her mother, and that ended
" I think Philip would__"              it.
" Yes, do ask Philip," he said, interrupting Every thing was enthusiasm and bustle with
er, "he will be a good -addition to the com- the children, all of them being anxious to do
any, and we'll go next Friday."         something to prepare for the expected trip
"ULn Papa ! not Friday, because then we Their mother directed their efforts, encouraged
an't eat anything but fish," cried all the chil- the glow of pleasure, assisted the boys in the
ren.                                    construction of crab nets, told the girls what
" Well, don't you go to the lake for a fish clothes to arrange for the occasion, and allow-
inner," he laughingly answered.  ,      ed every one to have a part in the prepara-
"I think Wednesday would be a good day,'" tions- Nelly having called to ask Mary to go
is wife quietly replied,                with them, the proposition met with the hearty
"Wednesday it is, then," he answered, and approval of Mrs. McDonald, who said that Mary
'ith a kiss'all round he left for the offi e.  would be on hand in time. Mr. Cheerfiti went
Mrs. Cheerful's disposition and life was a round to Mr. Macourty's office to invite Philip,

MARDI GRAS ;

9

93


A TALE OF .ANTE B3ELLUt .TIMES.          94   9                        AD    RS

who was delighted 'to have an opportunity of forward and with a blande smile, extended
joining them for a day's pleasure.        his hand, saying :
When Wednesday came, the baskets were " Good morning, Mr. Cheerful, glad to see
carefully packed with an assortment of good you, sir."
things; boiled ham and fried chicken, with  "I don't know you," replied Dick, in a short,'
a nice leg of mutton baked, blackberry and forbidding manner.
lemon pies ; a large pound cake, in tLhe making " Colonel Spades-I had the pleasure of
of which ea-ch one of the girls claimed to have traveling with you--"
had a part ; a fine lot of small cakes, with -" Yes, but when a trip is over," replied Dick
some nice ginger bread, three loaves of very in the same cold tone, "I never acknowledge a
light home-made bread, crackers and cheese, traveling acquaintance-unless 1e is a gentle-
sardines, pickles and sauces, knives and forks' man." Putting full emphasis on the last sen-
plates and tumblers. Then there were four tepice, Dick looked the Colonpl full in the face,
bottles of good old claret, and four fatter, then turned to the gentlemen he had been con-
more portly bottles, the corks of which were versing with, and bidding themigood morning,
expected to fly with a bang, '"when the wire entered the car. The repulsed Colonel shrug-
was cut ; a bottle of cordial and one of sherry, ged his shoulder, looked. around with a sneer-
and still another labeled "sazerac," which was ing smile, and then went away. Philip was
taken along to scare away any such unwel,. at a loss to know what this could mean, what
come guest as cholera. 'There 'were fishing spite Mr. Cheerful, the most jovial of men,
lines, baits, and nets, with a basket tio could have against his friend the polished
carry the spoils in, and bathing clothes for the military hero, but the train soon began to
whole party. Samson, the porter at Cane, move, the children stood up at the windows
Plant and Cotton's, a stout, .go'od natured ne. and shouted out their delight, and in conversa-
gre, who "thought the world and all of Massa tion with Mr. Cheerful and Mary, lhe soon for-
Richard," had asked permission to- go along, got the incident. On they went, now passing
and the baggage was divided between him the suburbs of the city, then Gentilly station
and Rachael and Josey, Mrs. Cheerful's ser- and the Jewish " City of the Dead," after
vants. The house was closed up for the-day, which the route lay through a swamp, with
and if anybody had called, they would' have willows and half grown trees, cane brakes and
found rgobody at home, but the faithful dog wild vines, making a dense, low growth that
Spot, who stretched himself out on the front looked impenetrable, a rid,,e of about six miles
gallery to watch the premises ntil their re- brought them to Milneburg, the end of the
turn. They were all .dressed in plain, neat Pontchartrain railroad. By Mr. Cheerful's
clothes, for they were going to enjoy them. directions they sat still until the train ran
selves and, like sensible people, wore nothing down on the long wharf, when bag and bag-.
that would be easily spoiled, or which they gage, they hurried out on to the trestle work,
would feel much regret, if torn or damaged, and walked out towards a small house, over
The children laughed gleefully as they entered the door of which, on the glass sides of a lamp,
the omnibus, the negroes and baggage having was the sign " The Last Chance."
been put on top, and Charley told Mary what " Ah ! Signor Angelio, how you was sipace I
a pile of fish he was certain he would get, and see you last time," said Dick, shaking hands
Nelly amused Philip with an account of all with an elderly, good natured gentleman, evi-
she had done towards getting ready. At ev ry dently a Spaniard, and landlord of " The Last
jolt of there omnibus the girls would laugh a d Chance."
the boys cheer until they reached the railro ad "I bin vere well, Meester Cheerful-I glad to
depot, werhre they alighted with alacrity aiid see you and your good folks-dey all wellI"
entered one of the cars of a train standi ig " Oh! splendid-here they are-the whole
there almost ready to start for the lake. ~t crowd," Dick answered gayly. Angello made
nine o'clock the train would go, and after se - a profound bow to the, ladies, and then con-
ing that everybody was seated,-Dick went o it tinned addressing Mr. Cheerful'.
to get the morning paper. Philip saw hin~ ~t  "You wanta de room for rest yourselves,
the depot conversing with two or three oth r come -in-you vere welcome." He assigned
gentlemen, when his friend Col. Spades caz e one of the rooms of his -house to the party,

I

OA

and there the baskets were deposited. Mr.
Cheerful gave Angello some money and asked
him to get some ice for their party, and on the
next train it came do wn from the City.
In a short time the whole crowd were out on
the wharf fishing for crabs, and great was the
delight when little Susan shouted, "Come here
quick, Papa, Philip come here, I got one," and
she had; it was about the size of the now
strange and antique coin, then commonly used
as a half dollar. Dick laughed and said it made
no difference, big or little the children enjoyed
the sport. Every hour a train came down
from the city, and then they would stop to see
the crowds that came to take the boats for
Mobile or the lake coast, or who came, like
themselves, to enjoy the fresh air and the ride.
About noon Mr. Cheerful called them in and a
lunch of crakers, cake and cheese, with some
wine, was partaken of, and a supply handed
over to Samson and the colored girls. After
this they strolled out to the end of the long
wharf, 'Where, under the shade of the roof, put
on to protect freight, they spent an hour fish-
ing for croakers and red fish. A gentleman a
little nearer the end of the wharf, was having
splendid success, drawing the fish in at the
rate of twenty-five or thirty an hour. Edward
and Charley were jealous of the stranger's
success, for nothing but provoking bites and
nibbles rewarded their exertions. .-
"Come, let us go bathe," said Mr. Cheerful,
this is fun but it lacks variety." The bath
refreshed them very much, the water was low I
and the 'children romped and played in it,
shouting to their hearts' content. It
was then about two o'clock and the servants
took one of Angello's tables and aritanged the 1
dinner. What appetites the children had ! I
And the older members of the party, were I
able to pay flattering attentions to the pro-
visions! The claret was very fine, and the I
corks of the fat bottles flew out with reports
like pistols, the pies were excellent and the
cake was perfection. After the dinner, the ~
children 'with Samson and the negro girls,
a
formed another expedition 'against the crabs,
and Mrs. Cheerful took a seat in the shade '
near them. Dick lighted his cigar and taking ~
a seat where the cool breeze blew upon him,
raised his feet on 'another chair, spread the d
paper out for a quiet read and was soon
asleep. Philip asked Mary to walk out on the ~
wharf, and~ they stopped a while to see the n

Mobile boat get in the last freight, and depart
on her voyage across the lake. Passing on to
the head of the pier, they took seats and
watched the waves as they rolled slowly in,
pouring over the break water in the distance.
" This does not look much like New York
Bay," said Philip.
"No," replied Mary, "it looks more like Lit-
tle Silver Bay."
"Are you going to spend the summer there?"
asked Philip.
;" I do not know," she answered, " but it is
probable that we will be there at least a part
"of the time."
*"May I write to you, Mary 1" he asked.
" Your letters are always welcome," she an-
swered.
" I have been wishing, Mary," he said, ,with
hesitation "to speak with you privately--there
was a time, when we were children together,
Mary, that I could talk with you freely, but'
there seems to have come a strangeness, a re-
served manner that forbids me to speak.'t
" I am sure, Philip," she replied, with much
candor, " that I do not know what has made
yen think so. It is true you have not been
very frequentlyrat our house, but I presumed
it was because you had found better company."
" Better company," he exclaimed, " you
know I could not think that."
" Nay, then your actions have said it," she
replied, with dignity, " I always treated you
as a friend, but-perhaps you remember the,
poor apple girl and feel it too much of a condes-
cension to visit her."
"How can you say that, Mary 1" he asked.
" If it was not so, she replied, with 'some
bitterness, " how was it that you, the only
Person in the city acquainted with me at that
time, have been such a stranger at our house?"
" I wish that I had been more attentive," he.
eplied.
" Don't think that I would have you forego
ther pleasures to call on me," she said, in the
ame cold tone of voice, "I merely thought it
trange that one who was such an old acquaint-
~nce, and pretended to be so strong in friend-
hip, should leave me almost entirely to stran-
crs. It has chanced that they were more thair
:ind, they were nil that I could ask-yet you
id not know that."
"Maryi my dear Mary I" he exclaimed, " I
~as wrong-I thought, that surrounded with'
ew friends you did not care for my atten-

MARDI GRAS:


tions, that I was not wanted and so I remained
away. But my heart was with you, Mary, for
since I first saw your sweet face, and knew
your mn dest, virtuous, noble disposition, since
I first daw those bright eyes 'and heard the
melody' of your voice, since then, Mary, no
matter where I have been, far and near, with
one constant feeling, my heart has been yours,
a true, devoted offering, ready to do all and
dare all for your sake."
She was silent, and after a pause he con-
tinued,.
" Tell me, Mary, do you love me I"
"'We have been friends, Philip, but I fear
we can never be more than friendsY'
"Why, Mary, oh! tell me why 1" he ex-
claimed, pleadingly, "I love you with all my
heart, then tell me, will you be my wife I"
"I cannot answer now," she said, restrain-
ing her feelings'.
"Mary this is no new feeling," he replied',
drawing- still nearer to her, and speaking
earnestly, "it came without my bidding, grew
in my heart, and day by day became-stronger.
At. first I did not recognize its meaning, I
thought it friendship, but as it became deeper'
I felt that it waslove, true, enduring love, and
now, 'without you I shall be forever lost. Say
that you love me Mary, or that I may yet hope
to win your -love and claim your heart and
hand."
" Philip, I cannot now ilnswer you," she
said, avoiding his look, "there is a deference
due Mr. McDonald, who has been like a kind
-father to me, and he must first be consulted',
but should he give his consent, I could not
marry one who has forsaken his God and reli-
gion for the wine-cup and gaming table."
I~f he had been struck by a bolt from Heaven,
Philip would have niot been more .surprised'.
For a moment he sat pale and speechless, then
the hot bWood rushed to his face and brow, and
he staited up flushed and angry. As their
looks met, there was in her face firm, high re-
solve expressed, that conquered his feelings
and he sat down beside her again-.
" Am I going to destruction 7" he asked in a
ow voice, "an~d is Mary interested in my fate?
Tell me that you love me, bid me. live and act
for your peace and happiness, give me hope of
a bright day to come, in the future, and you
may command me as if I were a slave."
" Philip, I can scarcely express what I wish

96

to say, for I might too deeply wound your feel-
ings,'" she replied. ,
"Speak, Mary, I will listen, and if I can, I
will do all that you wish, " only tell me that
you love me, and. all will not, can not yet be
lost." -
"Philip, I reebe, she said, speaking
slowly, as if struggling with the emotions
rising in her breast, "the happy days we
passed together when we were children,,the
fleeting, thoughtless, joyous hours when to-
gether we studied under good Uncle Peter.
We were alone, and almost friendless then,
and I was more so than you, and your polite.-
ness, blindness and sympathy awakened a
friendship in my heart, which was deepened
into love by after years of trouble, when al-
most my only consolation was'your letters,
full of noble, manly feelings, of cheering,
hopeful advice and comfort. When Mr. Mc-
Donald acted so .kindly to me and both him,-
self and his wife, may God bless them, insist.-
ed that I should take their name and be their
daughter,the pleasing surprise thatit would be
to you, Philip, was a happy dream to me, I
thought that you loved me,and counted the days
that must pass before we should meet. We met
at last, and in your words and hooks I found con-
firmation of my dream, but alas! how short
was the happiness. Your visits became less
frequent each week until they ceased almost
entirely. Yet this I could have borne ; yes,
had you loved another and. received her love
in return, I would have crushed the feelings
of my heart, and would have been happy to
see you so. But no ! It was not that. You
were throwing away health, honor and self-
respect in wild dissipations-the reports came
to me often-not to me in particular, but they
were the talk and regret of all your old friends.
Think, Philip, of the happy hours when we
knelt together in church as children, think of
the kind friends whose hearts are sad at your
wild life, think of the shame and dishonor
that must inevitably' be the end," and as her
'feelings became too -strong to be entirely gov-
erned, she continued, her fate bathed in tears
and her voice almost choked at times, " and
think too, Philip, more earnestly and sorrow-
fully, of Our Holy Rledeemer, who suffered for
us on the Cross, whose wounds are opened
anew by your sinful life, think of His agony
and bloody sweat, hear Him call to you from .
that awful mount, where for us M{e gave up

I

I

07

MARDI GRAS;

A TALE OF AJVTE BELLUM TIMES.

his life in t he greatest agony, scoffed and " Oh! dear, my foot is so sere," said Charley,
jeered at by the wicked multitude, and remem- as he went towards the ears.
ber that by a life of sin, you join that multi- " I believe, I cut myself b dly On the bar-.
tade in spirit and aid them in their revilings of nacles," said Edward.
the Holy One-9h! Philip, pause before it is "P'm tired most to death," said Nelly, with
too, too late." a long yawn,
"Mary,, Mary," he cried, endeavoring to -They were finally seated in the cars, and
draw her to him, "hear me, I will do all you with a scream and a whistle from the steam-
ask-I have been wild-I have wounded your horse, away they went, through the swamp,
heart, but I will do so no more-Look at me, canebrake, and thicket, dimly discernable in
Mary, and say that you will forgive me and the close gathering twilight, then into the
ove- me-say it, dearest." lighted city streets, until at last the depot was
" I love you, yes, Philip, with all my heart,'" reached. Here they had to wait for an omni-
she replied, and yielding to his caresses her bus to take them up town, and Charley seating
head sank on his shoulder, and he kissed her himself on the door-step of one of the houses,
time and again.                          leaning on his mother's parasol, presented
" You shall be pained no more, dearest," he splendid model of a worn out child.
said, earnestly, " from this day, I will study " Oh ! me ! I wish that omnibus would
how I can please you most, I will carouse no come," exclaimed Julia.
more, gamble no more-I will strive to do all " Maybe they've stopped running, its so,
that you could wish. My love for you shall late," said Charley, with a half groan.
guide every word and action."              " Wouldn't that be nice 7" said his father,
" And the Church, Philip," she said, almost laughing, but just then the bus came up and
too happy to talk.                        they $11 got in, and reached home without,
" All, all, shall be as you wish," he replied, munch more difficulty. They all slept soundly
"but I will not mention this to your father, that night, and for many a long year that
until by my actions I have shown him and all pleasant day at the lake was referred to with
our friends that I am redeemed." pleasure and enthusiasm.
" As you like, dear Philip," shie replied.  Mr. Plant thought it was extravagant in
They lingered, for some time in happy con- Dick to go with his family to the lake in that
versation, when they once more returned to way, but Dick, somewhat nettled at .the re-
Angelo's to join their friends,           mark replied: "As long as I live they shall
" Well, well, you are a nice couple," said Mr. have enough, and that of the best, and every
Cheerful, who had but .just, awoke from his amusement that I can give them, and I don't
siesta, " I thought you had run away or gone care a button what you say. When I am gone.
dowa amongst the fishes to become mermaids it will be time enough for them to wear lgng
and companions.''"    .                   faces and be sad."
'The children were still in the glory of crab- During the next week, Philip visited Mr.
fishing, and were now joined by the others. McDonald's frequently and avoided the' Club
The hours flew on and the sun began to sink and other public resorts. He was very happy
1ow in the horizon, casting over the smooth and had firmly resolved to regain his former
and calm surface of the lake, long rays of sil- good name, with those whose opinions were,
ver, (lancing light, that deepened in places to worthy of consideration. When the McDon-
sheets of burnished gold. The gentle breeze ald's left for the north he went to the boat to
that swept over the waters, cooling the air, see them off, and remained watching until they.
and delighting the senses of those who had were .out of sight. Mr. Macourty's family
corge there to escape the dust, heat and confu- soon went across the lake, nd Philip was left
sien of the city, was so light.that it did not once more to himself.
disturb the tranquil look of the picture.
At last, calling his troop together, with the        CHAPTERI XXVUI.
baskets repacked, Mr. Cheerful prepared to  Tewahrwshtadcoe                n   h
return home. -He thanked Angello for his at- 'Tewahrwshtadcoe n                 h
tentions, and gave him some money to pay for members of the "Niew Orleans Can't Get Away
his trouble.                             Club," always a Emkge club in numbers, and,
13

a


A TALE OF ANTE BELL UM TiMES.          98 99                     MARDi GRAS;

substantial and steady in character, were
availing themselves of every means for getting
a Freath of cool air and a little respite from
the dust and heat of the city. Business was
dull, and so~Philip, closing the store early,
turned the key in the lock, and passing it over
to the head porter, walked leisurely of4towards
Canal street; The sun was yet nearly an hour
from his western bed, the~nost pleasant part
of the day.
"Hello, Phil, how-d'y-where have you
been V' exclaimed Louis, as they met on Camp
street.
"rhavn't bebn anywhere, Lou."
"Why, I haven't seen you at the club in near-
ly a month !"
"No, I've been reading."
"Yes! Keeping quiet eh? Where are you
going now ?"
"Just knocking around."
"Let's go to the lake."
"Can't go now, Lou."
"Pshawt why not ?" said Louis, '~corne
along-let's get a horse and buggy and go
down. Come, we'll go around to Tattersall's
and get Uncas-he's the, fastest horse that
travels the Shell."
"I can't go this evening, Lou," he replied.
"Yes, you can! By Jove, I struck the Havana
to-day for five hundred and I'm going to stand
treat."
"The mischief you did !" exclaimed Philip,
"yost are in luck."
"Yes, I got five hundred yellow boys," re-
plied Louis, jingling a handful of gold "come
on, we'll have a horse that nobody can throw
dust on."
They then went to the stables, and ordered a
buggy with the favorite horse iJucas, after
which Louis proposed a "mint julep," to which
Philip could make no objections, having ac-
cepted the invitation for a ride. As they
came out of the saloon, Carl Amber came
along, and inquired what Philip had been
doing with himself of late. After a few mo-
ments conversation, Carl proposed that' they
should go to Bob's and take a drink.
"Come on, by the time we get back 'the
horse will be ready," said Louis, and the three
went off to get the proposed drink. Philip felt
at first a pang of regret and Mary's face came
pleadingly isp before him, but he banished the
vision, with the self assurance that he had of-

ten taken a score of "smiles" without feeling
them.
When they returned the handsome turnout
was ready, and, seated behind the favorite
horse, they were soon going rapidly down the
shell road, one of the best drives in the coun-
try. At the Half-way house they stopped to
rest the horse and here another glass was in-
dulged in. There were scores of people there
they both knew, with whom they shook hands
or exchanged friendly salutations. Before
leaving, half a dozen more invitationsto drink
were received and accepted, when theyonce
more took the road. At the lake a bath was
the first indulgence, after which the pistol
galleries and saloons were visited and as i~
usually the case, they gave and receivednumer-
ous invitations to drink. A fish and champagne
supper followed, over whic~t they lingered, in-
dulging freely, until past the noon of night,
and then returned to the the city, driving
furiously along, heated with wine, not much
caring\ what might happen them.
The ext day Philip's head was sore, unusu-
ally s4 for the conviction of his own con-
science\ that he had done wrong, made the
natural effects of his night's dissipation, much
more 4 yore than they had ever been before.
He sat down and wrote a letter to Mary, ac-
knowle~lging his fault and promising to avoid
such te~nptatione in future. A dozen copies of
this were written and destroyed before he had
one composed that suited him. As he read
over again the last effort, which pleased him
exactly, he began to think. "What a fool I am
-she'll never know it-besides, what if 'she
does? I am no baby, to be tied to her apron
strings! It was wrong-yes, well It was-but
what's a fellow to do? She is enjoying herself
and having a good time gsnerally-am I to set-
tie down like a drone here, rolling np my eyes
and saying my beads till she returns? No, sir!
Phil ain't made for that! What's the harm in
having a little fun? I'll have it, hang me if I
don't-when a fellow is married its time to
put on a long face."
The letter was torn in to very little pieces
and thrown with the other copies into the
waste paper basket. He then went into the
sample room an4 opening a half bottle Mumm's
Imperial, he drank it to "the health of every-
body in general and our friends in particular."
Another letter was then written to Mary, it

was full of love and endearing phrases; it di-
lated on his lonliness and was full of prayers
for her happiness and her safe return, and ex-
pressed the hope that she would have a gay
and joyous season. lIe mailed the letter him-
self, thinking as he did so, that he was play-
* ing the hypocrite and so he washed the feeling
down with a "cobbler" at the Gem.
lie became once more a regular visitor at his
Club, and drank harder and played more
recklessly than aver before.
The club was formed originally for the pur-
pose of encouraging the members in the study
of the drama and to give amateur perform-
ances on the stage. All the regular theatres
were now closed, and the proposition was
made to commence their representations. In
order to enlist the sympathies of the public, it
was necessary to make it a benefit~ for some
charitable purpose. Mrs. Drone, who had been
familiar to the New Orleans theatre goers for
many a year, and had been in her time a capi-
tal "heavy old woman and faithful nurse,"
was living in one of the back streets of the
city, sick and destitute. The papers had
noticed her several times, calling upon the
charitable to assist her.
William Malwreath proposed that the "Cres-
cents" should tender her a benefit; the propo-
sition took; a letter tendering her the benefit
and one from her thankfully accepting the
compliment, were drawn up and puhlishcd in
the papers, tickets were issued, the Varieties
was engaged, stud two of the men employed
about theplace were secured for door-keeper
and box-uzlerk. When the night came the
weather was fine, the dress circle was full of 1
beautiful ladies, in light and elegant summer
costume, au~d the balance of the house was
crowded to overflowing- The play selected was
the "Honey Moon." The principal characters
were given to William Malwreath, Carl Amber
and Philip, while a young and accomplished
actress, then just commencing a career that has
since proved brilliant and successful, person-
ated Julianna in charming style. Everything
went off with decided eclat; the actors acquit-
ted themselves creditably; the audience was de-
lighted, and the papers next day complimented
the club on their great success. t
Three days after, a meeting was held to hear
a report of the result and to direct the nett ~
proceeds to be paid over to ~rs. Drone. The I
treasurerr and Committee of Managers had col-

lected4n the outstanding tickets and money,
and reported that, after paying expenses', there
remained to Mrs. Drone the sum of seven dol-
lars and sixty cents! Here was a nice report;
everybody was surprised and they looked from
one to another as if to ask what should b~
done. "Mr. Presidentt" said William Mal-
wreath, rising, after a brief silence, "we have
heard the report, and are too well acquainted
with the gentlemen who have subscribed to it
to question their accuracy. But this will never
do, Mr. President, for the public. We have
given a benefit to Mrs, Drone; the house was
crowded; tIle public will expect a report, and
no outsider wilr believe that the expenses have
so nearly eaten up the receipts of so full and
splendid an audience. Besides, Mr. President,
it would not answer for this club to announce
a profit of the paltry sum of seven dollars and
sixty cents! We would be the butt of a thou-
sand jests and never hear the last of it. I
move, therefore, that each member be assessed
in the sum of twenty-five dollars, to be paid
to-morrow evening, and that the sum so raised
be sent to Mrs. Drone."
The resolution was ur~animously carried, and
the pap~rs of the following Sunday contained
Mrs. Drone's card, acknowledging the receipt
of several hundred dollars, the net proceeds of
the entertainment given for her benefit by the 'Wreo
~ents."
During the. summer three or four other per-
Cormances were given for charitable purposes,
bringing on the boards~ such plays as "The
merchant'ss Clerk and Tl~e Wife." The theatre
was always crowded, thd acting fair and every-
body well pleased. The financial results were,
however , the same as at the first entertain-
nent, the tax on the members following surely
in the wake of each one. -
Mr. Macourty was much troubled at Philip's
~onduct, and gently remonstrated with him on
bwo or three occasions. Philip listened with
respectt to the counsels of his friend, but they
roducyd no change in him. His work was al-
rays done, no duty was neglected or allowed
lass performed beyond tM proper time of
ts execution. "What right has Mr. Macourty
o question me about my private life ?" he rca-
oned with himself. "I do my work; I do it
veil and promptly, and that is all he has any
ight to inquire about."
And so the time passed on; he frequented

98

99

MARD1 GR AS ;


the club, drove to the lake with fast horses an d
faster dompanions, and daily became more and
more involved in debt, and nearer the brink of
ruin's precipice.".
CHAPTER XXVmI.
The McDonalds' traveled slowly, taking the
journey by easy stages and stopping wherever
interest or inclination prompted them to do so.
Mr. McDonald and his wife loved their daugh-
ter truly, and felt the greatest pride and grati-
fication in the admiration that she-commanded
at all the places they visited.' Whatever was
beautiful and attractive, in dress or ornament,
was pro ured for her by Mr. McDonald, who
never ti :ed in his efforts to make her the most
distingu shed of the throng that -visited the
summer resorts that season. From Soratoga
to the, hite Mountains, thence to Montreal
apd down to Niagara, they went, stopping at
each place until the desire arose to seek a new
field of pleasure. -Philip's letters- followed
them wherever they went, and to-Ma'ry, breath-
ing noth ng but love and devotion as they did,
proved great consolation. To Mr. McDon-
aid, who was a shrewd and observant man,
and naturally felt the deepest interest in what-
ever concerned his daughter, the pleasure with
which she received these letters, and the I
promptness with which they were answered,
told him the story long before Mary raised
courage to confide in his wife, and tell her love
for Philip and the agreement between them.
He felt a deep pang of regret, therefore, at a
letter he received while at Niagara, but con-
sidered it his duty to show it to her.
She was in the parlor of their suit of rooms,
and, as he passed through, he handed her the
letter, saying : " There's a letter I havo just
received from an old friend, and it contains
bad news for you."'
-She wondered at his meaning, and opened
the letter to see what it contained. It was
from a New Orleans correspondent, and gave
the news and gossip about the growing crops,
the course of tradp, deaths and marriages, and'
the usual assortment of items that were cur-
rent in those " dull, piping times of peace."
There was one passage that rivited her atten-
tion, and that she read over and over again, I
until her head was near bursting with pain.

10

It ran : i"The summer jhas given our lads a
chance to indulge their inclinations to dissipa.
tion. Th ere's a delightful crowd of them who,
having exhausted the novelties of the club',
fast horses and low companions, have now
taken to the stage. They played ' The Wife'
at the Varieties last night, with -Louis Fon-.
tane, Philip Cummings and William Malwreath
in the principal characters."
Could it be possible that Phzilip, her Philip,
once so correct and honorable in every action,
had so soon forgotten his solemn promises to
her? She could not believe it, and yet here
was the evidence that it was so, from an old
and highly esteemed friend of her father. His
letters were regular, elegantly written and
composed, and she could not believe that he
would act thus to her. It became her constant
thought, haunting her and making her life al-
most unbearable. I
After they had been a few days at Niagara
Mr. MacVain came there also, as he had pre-
viously done at Saratoga. With him they
again visited the scenes of interest around
that grandly beautiful wonder of nature. The
burning spring, table rock and Indian village
were visited. The different spots of interest
on Goat Island were pointed out, and many of
the wild stories connected with the place were
told by Mr. IMzacVain. As they went over the
island, Mr. MacVain and Mary became separat-
ed from the rest of the party, when he pointed
out to her a seat beneath the trees and pro-
posed that they -should rest there until their
friends came up. Mary knew that he was con-
stantly in communication with their home,
and longed to ask him. if he had heard any-
thing about Philip, but felt that her interest in
the subject was so great that she might, in the
conversation, say more than she wanted to'.
Mr. MacVain's thoughts were quite different.
He had wished for an opportunity to propose
his own suit, and believed that he had now
found it.
" A ild scene, this," heS said, pointing to the
falls, 'and one from which we might draw a
lesson an the life cf this world."
"?Ye , it is, indeed, an appalling sight," she
replied "Such volumes of water, the constant
roar, and clouds of rising mist, the surrounding
scenery, and the wild legends, extending far
beyond the time of the white men, all lend a
grandeur and a mysterious charm to the place."

01

I

9

101

'I

A TALE OF ANTE BELL UM TIES.

.MJA RDI GBAS ;

",The waters of the river," said Mr. MacVain,
"flw slowly and peacefully on for a time,
passing pleasant fids, grand old forests and
quiet homes. As it nears this place its speed
increases, until, with a sudden plange,'it passes
over the rock down to the abyss below. Thus
Swe travel on life's troubled river, now, leisure-
ly and observing as we go life's pleasures
around us, and then, without warning, comes
the dark abyss of death." .
" Such lives there are," Mary replied, " yet I
should be sorry to think they were so numer-
ous as the world asserts they are. To the
thoughtful and wise,-the wise in the ways of
Him who guides all--the current of life will be
as steady and calm at the last us in the begin-
ning of the voyage." -
"Not so has been my life," hea replied, with
an earnestness which startled her. ".I have
been tossed and thrown about without an ob-
ject or a hope, following no higher rule than
the caprice of a wayward mind. Yet therlhas
been awakened in my heart a hope of a better
life, a longing for a distinct, high and noble
purpose, and to you I owe this feeling. Since
we first met there has been an influence, an
irresistable charm that has drawn me towayds
you. With all the earnestness and devotion of I
my soul, Miss McDonald, I love you, and I now
ask you earnestly, sincerely to be mine."
" Mr. MacVain, I regret-" she said, rising to
go.
"Nay, I beg of you, stay and an wer me I
now," he said, interrupting her6 "Yon shall
have such a position in society as the proudest
might envy, every wish and desire of your
heart shall be gratified."
"Mr. MacVain, I beg of you to go no farth-
er,'? she exclaimed.             -      -
" Think of what I offer you," he continued.
" You shall have all that boundless wealth can
command, and the true, unchanging love of
my heart shall always be yours." r
S"Mr. MacVain, I have looked upon you as
my father's friend," she replied, " and as such,
my friend, but it can never be more." ,r
."Think well of -it," he said, still pleading a
with her, " can I never h pe to be more than a d
fnen., . .  ,,n
"It is impossible," she replied, " I shall al- a
ways value your friendship, and I hope we may c
always. be friends, but we can be nothing t~
more'.a

"I hope we may always be friends, we can
be nothing moree" he repeated, as if in com-
munion with himself alone. " Are these set
phrases with your sex, or has some fiend
learned you these words, that you might re-
peat them to me ?" and the old sneer came upon
his face again as he continued, " words that I
bitterly remember to have heard before, and
you repeat them now with the same look and
tone with which they came then," and his fea-
tures relaxed, a look of paiful melancholy
covering his face. " Ah ! that magic tone, the
gracious touch and queenly bearing that have
thrown a spell around me, stirring up the dor-
mant feelings of youthful days,.awakening,
alas, a hope that is forever shattered and
gone I"
It was almost frightful to see the strong
feeling of agony that worked upon his face,
and made his commanding form shake and
bquiver like a~forest leaf before an autumn
bast.
"Mr. MacVain, Ibeg of you to think no more
of this," said Mary.
" You said we might be friends," he said, as
with an effort he mastered his anger, and re-
solved henceforth to try and be a better and
truer man, "so let it be. If I can ever assist
you, command me. Let me he to you as a
brother, and believe me, no brother was every
more devoted and faithful to a sister, thian I
pledge myself to be to you."
"I thank you for this assurance," she replied,
frankly and kindly accepting his proffered
:and, "and I assure, you, in return, that I
hope you may be, through life, happy and-
prosperous in all things."
They now returned to the bridge, where
heir friends were awaiting their return.
MIary had hastened the valk and was greatly
elieved to escape from the embarrassing p)osi-
ion.
To Mr. MacVain the disappointment was ter-
ible ; it was the wrecking of the last hope,
ad in his younger days would have brought
ark and threatening feelings to his heart, but
ow he schooled himself to think of it calmly,
nd to yield without anger to his fate. He be-
ame more attentive and respectful to Mary
han before, and endeavored to look upon her,
s he had promised, as a sister.


Summer having passed, autumn-luxuriant
in fruits and flowers, blessed with the harvests
of the season, came, with pleasant weather,
invigorating and cheerful. The fields of snowy
cotton, thrifty cane and waving rice, once the
grand staples of the prosperous South,-~were
yielding their products, and the prospect of
sharing in the profits of the commerce which
these articles would give impetusto, recalled to
their homes, "so-called," the floating popula-
tion of New ~ rleans, and with the returning
current there came crowds of strangers from
all parts of the country, anxious to participate
in the business and enjeythe hospitalities and
gaieties of that place, then the moSt sociable
in the Union.
Absenteeism! How much misery, neglect
and retrogression has resulted from this curse
of tLie South! Her fields have yielded prolific
crops, the barter and exchange of which have
scattered wealth, with a lavis~i hand, on all
wh~ have come within .the circle of their in-
* fluence. After gathering wealth, with aston-
ishing rapidity for a few years, her "iso-called"
citizens take their earnings to enrich and
beautify some Northern or Weste: n home.
From the plains of the West to the Shores of
the Atlantic, from the Ohio .to the Lakes, there
is scarcely a full or valley, or the banks of a
stream, that has not been improved with the
riches drawn from the I South in this way.
While millions of dollars belonging to South-
ern men, or to those who claimed to be such a
*few years ago, are invested in the railroads
and steamships of the North, the few enter-
prises of that nature started for the benefit of
their own cities are allowed to languish and
decay for lack of capital. And who so ready
to call out against the "lack of energy and
enterprise ~' in the South as these "birds of
passage,~~ who use *the money made in their
business as Southern merchants or planters to
build Northern railroads, improve country
seats in the North, and who spend thousands
of dollars annually in visits away from their
own States 'I
When the MeDonalds' returned, Philip lost
no time in calling upon Mary to express his
pleasure at her safe arrival and to hear an ac-
count of her trip, the different changes in which
he had already heard by letter. Their first
evening was passed very pleasantly, although
she had fully resolved to remonstrate with

10~

Philip, and demand that he shor~ld respect his
promise to her, Mary allowed the evening to
pass without a word on the ~ubjeot. When, in
the course of a week or two, she found that
everybody was talking abo~it Philip's mad ca-
reer, holding up their hand and opening their
eyes in "holy horror" at hi dissipation, with
a 'true womanly affection s e clung closer to
~him, pauiated and excused his faults, and ex-
erted all her influence, quie ly\ and secretly,1 to
win him back. Every day s e knelt before the
altar of the Blessed Virgin, in the old church,
and offered her prayers for im, that he might
yet see the evil of his wa s and be brought
back to the path of truth, h nor and religion.
In this course she was strengthened by Mrs.
Macourty, with whom she spent much of her
time, and to whom she became m~re endeared
on Philip's account. Mr. Macourty had twice
intended to get some one in Philip's place,.but
his wife's entrimtics had deterred him from
doing so.
"He is a good-hearted boy," Mrs. Macourty
said to Mary. "He is not naturally bad, and
kindness will win him back. You and IMary
dear, must save him."
~' My dear George," she said to her husband,
"remember that Philip is young, and in time
he will get steady enough."
"It will not do, Cecelia, he must have a les-
son," he replied.
"My dear," she continued, "kindness will
have a better effect than harsh measures.~~
"Why do you favor him so much ?" he asked.
"He is the son of a very dear friend," she
replied earnestly, "his father was kind to us
when we were young, and-he was the play-
mate and favorite our lost Cecelia."
"I admit all this," he said, "but such con-
duct does not look well in the confidential
clerk of a commercial house.~~
'"What has he done so awful I" she in-
quired.
"What has he done ?" he replied, a little
impatiently. "He drinlrs, gambles and keeps
1~ad company."
"Well, that's bad enough, but you will not
cure him by harsh measures, and cast off he
shall not be with my consent,'t she answered
spiritedly, and then added, in a joking, mis-
ehievious way, "you need not be so hard on
him; you were not always so steady yourself.
I have heard some queer stories about young

A TALE OF ANTE BELLUM TIMES.

4
2

103                              JJIARD
~4e ge Macourty, anel you did not make such
a b d man after all 1"
T is was unanswerable, so lie gave her a kiss,
sai she "always did have her own way," and
Ihi ip was spared for a time.
P ilip did not improve much; his friend,
Col rid Spades, had returned for the season,
and ~ as now constantly one of his companions.
When Christmas drew near, Philip thought he
would have something out of the usual routine,
and invited his friends to a Christmas Eve
party for batchelors.

At nine o'clock in the evening Colonel
Spades, Carl and Louis, who were the special
guests of the evening, arrived. All the other
employees of the store were gone, and Philip
had arranged his supper of turkey, ham, pies,
cakes and other eatables, with a large supply
of liquids, inthe sample room, which was next
to the office. After paying their attentions to
the lunch provided; and drinking a number of
toasts, some "regular," and others quite "ir-
regular," the party seated themselves around
a table, a new pack of cards was produced and
a game of "draw" commenced. The betting
was at first very moderate, arid the game was
interrupted by the arrival of three friends who
had been invited to "look in during the night."
More refreshments were taken, and a number
of toasts duly honored. The friends went
away and the gamO of poker was renewed~
the betting being more free than before. The
calls of friends were frequent, and at every
call the game was suspended, to receive them
with becomiuj hospitality, and resumed as
soon as they had left. Wine and liqu~ra of all
kinds were within reach, and the guest was
only asked to "name his brand," and it was
prodtieed. After midnight the party became
wildly merry; songs were sung, jests and
stories were told, and the bottles passed
around rapidly. One of the party had re-
mained cool and collected; he had appeared to
drink more than his companions, but bad, in
reality, taken very little. This was Colonel
Spades. He was affable, gentlemanly and
sociable. He was at times a looser in the game
of cards, but acted as if indifferent to the for.
tunes of the night. His time had now arrived,
and, while amusing the company with well-
delivered anecdotes, he increased the bets,
stocked the cards, and had soon won all the
ready money his companions had about them.
Then canie the credit game. He still continued

I GRAS;
to win, and accepted from his friends their due
bills for their losses. When the company
arose to leave, the Colonel held Philip's notes
for sixteen hundred dollars, and* the notes of
the other gentlemen for a large amount. They
reached the street a yelling, reckless crowd.
The Colonel affected to be as much "gone" as
his companions. One of the young men, with
a loud shout, seized thc Colonel's hat and
placed a pack pf fire-crackers in it with the
fuse burning brightly. The crackers popped
and banged, knocking the hat around, ruining
it completely, while the young men shouted
and laughed in high glee. The Colonel
laughed with the rest; the loss of the hat was
nothing to him, for h~ had made enough du-
ring the night to pay his expenses for a sear
or more.
"Ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! ha!" wentthe Colo-
nel, "now, gentlemen, I will have to leave
you, for I have no hat, and I can't go bare-

headed."
He was glad of the excuse to leave them; so,
wishing them all a "Merry Christmas" he.
went his way. One now proposed a game 'of
billiards, another tenpins, and Philip threw up
his hat to see '~vhich it should be. The result
was in favor of billiards, and they repaired to
a popular saloon on Gravier street, where they
spent two or three hours at that game.
When they again reached the street, they
parted, exchanging the conipliments of the
season, and Philip returned to his own rooms,
a handsomelyy furnished suit, on Perdido, near
St. Charles street. When he entered his par-
br he was surprised to see Mr. MacVaiu seated
on the sofa, quietly reading the morning paper.
"A merry Christmas to you, Philip," said he,
rising and offering his hand.
"The same to you, sir, and many a happy
return," replied Philip, giving him a warm
shake hands.
"I am glad to see you in good spirits, Philip,
for I came to speak a few wotds to you on a par.
tienlar subject," said Mr, MacVain, at a loss to
know how to introduce the conversation.
Philip's brow darkened and his lips com-
pressed as he heard this, and he took a seat,
waiting for his visitor to continue.
"You are going the road to ruin and dis-
honor very fast," said Mr. MacVain, "and I
come to you as an old friend, to rerrnmatrate
with you, to warn you of where this life will


'lead you, and I now ask you, Philip, to think
seriously 4~f the matter."
Philip f~s toned his fine, large black eyes,
which w~re now flashing with anger, on is
visitorr, add, after looking him fall in the fa e
for a few ~n moments, inquired: "Have you be a
to church ~this morning, Mr. MacVain ?"
"No-I have not, Philip," answered
MacVain, with hesitation, as if sorry to ma e
that admission.
"Don't you think you had better 'scour yo r
own tins' before you trouble your neighbors' "
inquired Philip, with a smi!e of sarcasm.
"I do not pretend to be faultless. I am f r
from doing my duty, as I am free to confess,"
dplied Mr. MacVain, "but I have seen enough
of this world to know that the company you
are keeping and the use you are making of
your time will lead you to shame and disgrace."
"You will excuse me, sir," said Philip, in a
formal, haughty tone, "if I beg to be allowed
tomanage my own aff~tirs, and respectfully de-
cline the advice of my "old friends."
"You are more hardened than I expected to
find you," said Mr MacVain, coldly, "but I
believe it my duty to speak, and I shall do so
without asking your leave. For two years or
more you have been the companion of gain-
blers and rowdies-"
"Let inc-say, Mr, MacVain," said Philip; in a
threatening manner, "that I hold you respon-
sible for what you say, and shall demand such
satisfaction as erie gentleman accords to an-
other for your insulting language."
"You may send me a challenge if you like,"
replied Mr. MacVain, "but I shall not notice
it. I have come here resolved to keep perfectly
cool and you cannot anger me, but if you can
look back to this interview, a year hence, and
feel That I have said anything unjust or untrue,
I will then either apologize or grantyon what-
ever satisfaction you may demand."
"I suppose, then, I have nothing for it but to
listen," said Philip.
"Ask yourself if you have aQted right. Look
at the ~lebt your gambling has brought you
into. Oh! you need not start-I know what I
am talking about," said Mr. MacVain. "What
sort of a companion is Colonel Spades for a
young man like you ?"
"Colonel Spades is my friend," replied Philip,
angrily, "and I will not allow him to be tra-
4luced behind his back."

I

"Your. friend I' exclaimed Mr. MacVain, "a
black-leg, a common gambler, whom I have
seen many a time behind a fare table, detected
stocking his cards at poker, and the keeper of
a rouge etnoir table. Nice friend, this, for any
gentleman. how long do you suppose Mr.
Macourty will stand this conduct? Are you
not afraid he will discharge you I"
U Mr Macourty is not the only merchant in
New Orleans,"replied Philip, haughtily, "nor
is this the only city in the country. When he
wishes to get rid of me he has only to say the
word."
"That's all very well," replied his friend,
"but did you eiter stop to think how it would
sound to have it said that you were discharged
for drinking and gambling? Did' you ever ask
yourself what sort of a letter ofrecommenda-
tion Mr. Macourty could give you? I knew
your father for many years; he was a kind
friend to me arid I owe him much of my pres-
ent prosperity. He was a man liked by every-
body. Go now to any 6f our old residents and
ask who and what he was, and they will an-
swer that he was a merchant of the strictest
integrity, a man of pure and noble principles,
a citizen of the largest liberality and sound
judgment. He lived and died respected by all
who .knew him,, leaving behind no blot or
blemish on his memory. You are his son.
Wherever you go he is brought back to the
minds of those who meet you, and they say:
'~That's the son of Pe~er Cummings." Tell me,
will your present conduct reflect credit on that
father's name? Will you add to the honor
and high reputation of your family ?"
Philip was completely disarmed by the course
of remonstrance taken by Mr. MacVain, and
while he wished that he could reply, he felt in
his heart that his friend was right, and he,
therefore, remained silent.
"This is a good day, Philip, to turn over a
new leaf," said his friend, "and I hope you
will determine to cut all those loose compan-
ions, and begin at once with high and noble
aim, a new and better tife. I know that you
are in debt, and it will be wounding to your
feelings to leave these haunts of dissipation
without first paying all you owe. I have,
therefore, to say that, if you will promise me
to be steady and honorable in the future, I
will let ~ou have the money to discharge all
those obligations."

105

MA RDI GR AS ;

"I am n'~t yet reduced to accepting charity1
Mr. MacVain," replied Philip.
"I don't offer it as a charity," said Mr. Mac.
Vain. "Y~u can repay me at such times and it
such sums as may be convenient to you-yes
and, if it will be more agreeable, you can pa~
me interest."
"I decline your money s'nd your a4vice,'
said Philip. "One would thinkthat I was the
only young man who ever 'bent an elbow or
turned a trump, If I do this or that, the gos.
sips are immediately going around, working
their jaws and rolling their eyes."
"I am sorry to find you so 'blind to your own
interes'~s," said Mr. MacVain, rising to go.
"There's many a friend of your honored fa-
ther will be sorry to see the old name brought
to dishon r, and there's none that will be more
ready tha myself to extend the hand of friend-
ship and o all that can be done to assist you
-should on hereafter change your mind"
Philip courted his friend to the door, and
returned is friendly grip and compliments of
the day i a cold, formal maimer.
"A ver~r pretty state of affairs," he said, so-
liloquisin ; "a man but drinks an extra glass,
or loses a fev~ dollars in passing an evening
pleasantly away, and everybody has his name
in their mouths. I wish they'd let me alone."
It was now nearly ten o'clock, and he started
for the office; not that there was any business
to transact, for Mr. Macourty always made it a
~complete holiday for his clerks, but then they
all went down some time during the morning
to receive their employer's congratulations.
Each one knew that he would find a letter con-
taining many expressions ot~ kindness, and a
substantial proof of their friend's appreciation~
of their character and services, in the shape of
a check, varying in amount according to the
value and standing of the recipient. As these
checks were drawn by Mr. Macourtey on his
private bank account, Philip never knew be-
forehand how much was coming.
When he entered the store, Tom, one of the
warehousemen, greeted him with the usual
salutation, and, to his inquiry if there was
any one in the office, answered in the negative.
Going up-stairs, Philip found a letter on hi~
desk in the familiar handwriting of his em-
ployer, and in it he found a check for five hun-
dred dollars. He looked in the envelope,
turned the check over and over, opened the

104A

A TALE OF A.NTE J3ELLUM TIMES.

envelope wide once wore, and then fell into a
brown study.
"Five hujidred dollars! Last year it was a
thousand, and business has been better than it
was then. Five hundred I that will just ahout
pay my little bills, the tailor, shoemaker and
so forth. Its queer, there used to be a letter
of congratulation, but looking into the envel-
ope again, "there's nothing here, not even a
scratch, notasimple 'Merry Christmas."' That
looks ominous-well, I don't care, they can all
go to the devil if they don't like me and 'my
friends."
Notwithstanding this bravado he felt crest.
fallen and miserable. He returned to his room
and laying down on his bed he was soon
asleep. After five or six hours of rest he got
up, an~reflecting on the events of the day, he
resolved to put a good face on the matter, lie
dressed himself with great care, and after a
dinner at a neighboring restaurant, called at
Mr. McDonalds. Here he spent an agreeable
hour and then proposed that Mary and Mrs.
MeDonaki should go with him to Mr~ Macour.
ty's, an invitation that was accepted at once.
He was looking splendidly, all traces of the
carouse of th~ previous night had dissappear-
ed, and his spirits were free and gay. They
spent a pleasant evening and when he at last
parted with Mary at her own door, she was
happy and full of hope.
CHAPTER XXX.
Philip was at work early next morning. Al-
though he had not been absent from business
at all, he had not worked as perseveringly of
late, as had been his custom, and he was,
therefore, a little behind in his writing. In
addition to the usual routine, it was n9w time
to take stock, make up interest accounts and
prepare to strike a balance on the books, to
ascertain the result of the past year's opera-
tions. He was much troubled about his inter-
view with Mr. MacVain, who had always been
very friendly to him, and whose action on the
day previous, his good sense convinced him,
was prompted solely by a desire to serve him.
He felt that he had lost his temper, and that in
this Mr. MacVain had the advantage of him,
having been throughout perfectly cool and
gentlemanly. After much reflection he came to
14


A !lL4LE 01? ANTE BELLUM TilIIES.         106    107                    MARDi WAS;

the conclusion that an apology was due to hb
friend, and that his own character and honci
demanded that it should be made. He, there
fore, wrote the following note, and sent ~t t4
that gentleman's office.
"NEW ORLEANS, December 26th 1856.
I'ercy MacVain, Esq:
Dear Sir-Believing that an apology is dm
you for my ungentlemanly reception of youi
advice, tendered to me yesterday at my rooms~
I beg leave to say that I regret the use of any
expressions that may have been harsh or
wounding to your feelings. I am well assured
that your action was prompted by friendship
to myself, and, although I could not accept
your advice, I feel that it should have been
received with courtesy and respect., With as-
~nrances of my high esteem, I am
Your Friend,    PHILIP CUMMINGS,5
To this letter he received an immediate an-
swer, couched in the most considerate and
conciliating language, ending with the assur-
ance that his friend would be pleased to serve
him at any time.
During the following week, Philip worked
steadily at his books and accounts, never
leaving the office until late at night.
The rooms of the Crescent Club wore bril-
liantly lighted New Y~ar's Eve, and crowds
were continually going and coming, exchang-
ing friendly greetings. Col. Spades was seat-
ed in one corner of the front room, apparently
intent on reading the papers, but the anxious
glances he threw at the clock now and then,
and the close scrutiny that he gave each
crowd that entered, showed that l~e was ex-
pecting the arrival of some person.
"Half past nine," he said, out of patience
at last, "and Mr. Cummings has not 'come
yet. He has not been here since Christmas
Eve, for I have watched for him every night.
If he thinks he can bluff me, he's mightily
mjstakeu. I have got him on a string now
and if I don't make a handsome thiqg out of
him-I am a fool-that's all." Well, if he
don't come here I' can go to see him, and I will
do it."
Leisurely finishing the bottle of wine which
sat before him, he took down his hat and
buttoning up his coat, started for Philip's
room. The servant there said that Mr. Cum- I
mings had riot yet returned, and he walked
away slowly soliloquizing as he went.
"I~ot home yet-that's strange-where can
he be I By Jove! He ulay 'be at the office-just

where I want to see him-I'll go around there
-I'll insist on having Mr. Macourty~s eheck or
- note, for the amount, and as he holds the
power of attorney, he will give one or the
other to settle the matter. Ha! ha! I will
keep whichever he gives me, and hold it over
him. Then I'll*make him shell-out; as he is
in a large house I ought to make at least ten
thousand out of him, for once his foot is in-
he can't get out, until he is detected-which
may not be for a year or two.
Musing thus to himself he walked around to
Mr Macourty's store, and looking up saw
there was a light burning in the office. He
tried the door, it was not locked, he opened it
and went in. As he reached the head of the
stairs, another man who had seen him enter,
opened the door and also went into the store.
"What, at work yet I" said Col. Spades, in a
"hail fellow, well uret" style, "thaL's too bad,
and this New Year's Eve."
"Good morning, Colonel," said Philip, leav-
ing his desk, where he had been busily engag-
ed, "take a seat.. I am getting it up fast now
-never do to be behind-hand you know."
"Yes-biz is biz," replied the Colonel, cooly
taking a seat, "and that brings me to the
point of my present visit-about those little
due bills."
"Yes, well-I think I can fix them soon," re-
plied Philip, a little nervous.
"There's one for six hundred from last
month, and the other of sixteen hundred given
last week-" continued the Colonel.
"Making a total of twenty-two hundred
dollars," said Philip, "well, they are good sir,
and will be paid."
"Oh! I don't question that !" exclaimed the
Colonel. "I am sorry to trouble you, I am in-
deed, but the fact is I am short-must raise
five thousand, and I thought you would help
me."
Philip was disappointed he had regarded
it as certain that the Colonel would wait op
him until the end of the season, and in the
mean time his luck might change, or at the
worst, he would then try to borrow the
amount.
"I really am sorry, Colonel," he replied,
"but at present it will be impossible for me
to pay."
"Just think a moment," persisted the Colo-
nel," in your position, with so many wealthy
friends, you can easily arrange it."

I

I I II I I I II I M- I I I I III I I i I MM

106

"I cannot go to my friends just now," re-
plied Philip, mortified at the Colonel's impor-
tunity, "by-and-by, I may do so."
"By-and-by-is not now," answered the
Colonel, with more firrenes, "these are notes of
hand-debts of honor, payable at any
moment."
"But is has been customary," said Philip,
"to give time on them."
"Time-time," cried the Colonel, in a half
sneering manner, "isn't from the middle of
November till now, time 7"
"I tell you, sir, I have no money," replied
Philip, offended at the other's manner, "and I
don't know how I can raise it."
"Give me Mr. Macourty's note, I can nego-
tiate it."
"What, sir, commit a forgery 7" exclaimed
Philip.
"Not at all, you hold the power of attorney,
you are authorized to sign his name, and be-
fore the paper comes due, you can raise the
money to pay it-qr, if you are short, I will
help you," replied the Colonel.
"It would never do," said Philip, "Mr Ma-
courty has no notes out and the effort to nego-
tiate one would-~"
"Oh! leave that to me," said the Colonel,
abruptly, "I'll put it where he will not hear
of it, and you can pay it without a soul's
knowing it was ever given."
"It will not do, Colonel," said Philip.
"No! well-you told me you always had a
good balance in bank 7"
"Yes-from ten to a hundred thousand," re-
plied Phiiip.
"Give me a check for the amount-tear it
out of the back of the book-with a large bal- 4
ance like that, no one but yourself and me will
know It."
"Can't do it, Colonel-very sorry, but i will
not commit a forgery to assist even you,~~ said
Philip. 4
"Forgery! I tell you it is not forgery, you
sign the name of the house teu times a-day-
don't you I" replied the Colonel. 4
"Sometimes a hundred, but that is in the
course of business, and it is for this that I I
hold authority-any other use of the signature I
-any that I know Mr Macourty would dis-
approve of would be forgery-and I will do
nothing of the kind," said Philip, firmly.
"You will not I" inquired the Colonel, in an
angry voice.

"No, sir, I will not."
"But I say you will-do you see this," and'
the Colonel rising from his feet, held towards
Philip a revolver.,
Philip's face flushed with anger and he made
a movement as if he would seize a ruler "to
knock his visitor down, but after a moment he
replied with a scornful smile. "Put up your
weapon, Colonel, I am no fool to be frightened
by such a display. You are safe here too, for
my character has suffered toomuch already by
association with you, for me to wish to black-
en it more with your worthless life. Put up
your weapon or I'll boot you down stairs."
'ISo this is the way you pay your debts of
honor 7" said the Colonel, replacing his 'pistol
in his belt at his back.
"Debts of honor! Debts of dishonor more
likely," replied Philip, fiercely, "debts made
by submitting to the cheats and tricks of a
sharper, a worthless black-leg. You have~
showed your hand too soon-~-I see through you
now, as I would through apane of glass. Idon't
went to have anything more to do with you,
but I'll pay those notes-.---when I get the mon-
ey; I will send you word. I will pay them
dollar for dollar, although I do not believe you
won one cent of them honestly."
"You don't want to know me any more! oh!
no! I suppose not," sneered the Colonel, "I'll
tell it in every club in town, in every saloon
and house, and to every man I know."
"Have a care, Colonel," said Philip, his face
flushed and his eyes flashing with anger, "you
may out-run even my patience."
"I offered you a way to settle this matter,"
replied the Colonel, "but you decline it be-
cause you do not intend to pay at all. But I'll
ax you, I will call on Mr. Macourty and show
him what sort of a cashier he has got-what a
model young man you are.
This was the Colonel's last resort,.and he
expectedd it' to crush the young man into im-
mediate submission, but h~ was mistaken.
"Do so if you like," replied Philip, "Mr. Ma-
3ourty has been as kind as a father to me,
md I would a thousand times rather trust
myself in his hands than in yours. Go tell
Am, but know this, sir-I will tell him myself,
~es sir, I will go to him myself, acknowledge
he whole truth and offer him my resignation
f the position I hold."
"Very likely," said the Colonel, surprised
Lt the turn matters had taken-" but why

107

MARDI GR A S ;


A TALE OF ANTE J3ELLUM TIMES.              108

should we quarrel over this-I have been
hasty, you will pay, I know that-~so I ac-
knowledge that I have done wrong and I ask
your pardon for what I have ~
As he said this he advanced towards Philip,
offering his hand, but Philip warned him back
and answered:
"No! sir! I will have nothing more to do
with you, I am glad you called, your conduct
has done mono to qpen my eyes, than all the
lectures of all the friends I ever knew, could
have done."
"Well, we'll see," replied the Colonel, again
assuming the offensive, "we'll see how you
will stand in Mr. Macourty's eyes after my in-
terview with him to-morrow."
"Again I say I do not care for your threats,
Mr. Macourty shall know the whole truth from
my own lips, said Philip, "and from this hour
I pledge my honor and name that I will never
touch a card or play a game of chance again.
Go now, and when you meet me, pass by me as
if you had never seen me, don't dare to recog-
nize me under any circumstances. As for the
notes, I am not going to borrow money to pay
them, nor will I stoop to anything mean or
dishonorable to raise it, but I will pay you the
full amount a~ soon as I earn the money to do
it with."
"Pay him-now, Philip, pay the rascal and
let him go," said Mr. Macourty, who entered
in great excitement.
"My dear sir, let use explain-" said Philip.
"No necessity for words now, pay him,"
said Mr. Macourty, interrupting him.
"But sir, the amount is large and I am-"
Philip began again.
"I know all about It," he replied, "yes, sir,
I know all about it," j~se continued, turning
upon the Colonel, and shaking his fist at him,
"I know who you are, sir, and if it was not
that my young man, myson I will call him, is
compromised in the matter, you should not
have a dollar. Debts of honor I to an unscru-
pulous cheat and scoundrel like you! Here,
hand over the notes-ah! nise thing this-
here's your money, and I regard it, sir, that
every cent of it you have stolen-get out of
here now, you have nothing more to expect
here, and we have no use for you.
As he spoke he backed the Colonel out of the
door, followed him down stairs and closed the
~oor after him when he went out.

"Well-he's gone," said Mr. Macourty
when he returned to the office.
"I don't know how to thank you enough for
your kindness," said Philip, with emotion, and
scarcely knowing what to do with himself.
"Philip, my dear boy, I heard your pledge
just now, and it pleased me more than an un-
expected profit of ten thousand dollars would
do," he replied, kindly patting Philip's back,
"don't say anything more about it now, I
know you feel grateful, but don't say anything
-I'll take your thanks in your future conduct."
Philip made no more promises or pledges,
but he formed a plan in his own mind, and car-
ned it out. His old comrades, with whom he
was a great favorite, were surprised at his re-
fusal to drink with them, and regretted very
much, receiving his resignation as a member
of the club. They were pleased to see him do
well, however, and he lost neither their love
or esteem by hi~ adherence to the rule he had
made. The good people, especially a few
kind hearted souls who always made it a point
to know everybody's business iut their own,
were surprised to see him in his old place, in
Mr. Macourty's pew on the following Sunday,
'but as he made it a point to go regularly after
that-the novelty wore off, and th'~y had noth.
ing further to say-but to wonder ~f he would
or would not, soon go off on another spree.
CHAPTER xxxr.
Mrs. cheerfull was preparing to go out to
attend to some business. Her dr ~ss was of
blachi bombazine, plain and nca 'ly fitting,
made without trimming or ornament, a black
crape shawl covered her shoulders, and a neat
black bonnet, with a long crape veil thrown
back, falling gracefully down, brought strong-
ly out the fairness of her complexion, and her
mild, sweet face, looked more beautiful under
the deep mourning. Presently, Nettle came in
to bring her ma a pair of gloves, black silk
they were, the child too, was dressed in the
most sombre garments ar~d a shade of sadness
had settled on her fair young face. What does
It mean? AhI poor thing, they mourn the loss
of a protector, and their kindest friend-Mr.
Cheerful is dead. The tramp of the little feet,
as they rush to meet him on his return from
work, each rosy mouth anxious to be kissed

.109

MARD1 GR AS ;

108

109                             MARDi GRAS;
first, will thrill his heart no more. He will in a few hours he died. Then came the funer-
come no more with smiles and encouraging al. "His friends and those of Cane, Plant
words, kisses and caresses to cheer his wife in and Cotton are invited to attend without fur-
her weary round of duties, which until now ther notice."
she never felt to be trying and burdensome. Dick had been a great favorite, his good
A
The light blue smoke that ascen ~ed from his qualities were many and fresh in the memory
segar, wreathing about his mei~ry face and of the people, so that ILi8 friends would have
curling around his head, until th~ children in made a large company, but when were added,
glee declared that Papa's head ws~s on fire, has the friends of the great commercial house of
faded into the light air, and will come again Cane, Plant and Cotton, there was an immense
no more, as he will return to gladden their crowd. The body was exposed in the parlor,
hearts, never, never, never! in an elegant mahogany ease, with silver
"Well, what of that, we must all die," as mountings, with beautiful floral, offerings ar-
the amiable Mr. Alfred Plant would say. ranged around, and blessed candles, in finely
But leaving a wife, so tenderly raised, al- worked silver candle-sticks, were burning
ways so kindly provided for, upon whom he around the coffin. As the friends came, the
la7ished so much love, and six young children n~sjority of them, being like the deceased, of
-what will become of them?               th~ Catholic Faith, made the sign of the Cross
"Ahi but that's none of our business, we are and knelt for a moment in silent prayer, sup-
for other men's families," as placating the Great Ruler, to have mercy on
not responsible                          the soul that had so recently left its earthly
Mr. Alfred Plant would reply, making 'good tenement. Their actions and words were as
the proposition with the solid l9gie of political varied as were their looks and ages.
economy.                                   "God                   -~
Mr. Cheerful's death was sudden and unex-     rest his soul in peace," said one lady
pected. Some boxes of machinery, for a plan-' devoutly kneeling.
Icr an Red River, had been consigned to the "He was the good, kind man entirely," said
care of the firm, and as the water was low at an old wom~n, her tears rolling fast over her
the time, the boxes were stored in the upper withered and care-worn face, "sure it was
part of the store. When a rise came, the himself that always wore the heart-warming
planter was not ready for the machinery, and smile."
it was kept for several mont1~s, until his Two gentlemen come to the door and look
buildings ~werc completed, when in accordance inqriiringly around to see who is there, they
with his instructions they were shipped. then walk around the corpse.
They were lowering the boxes, when Samson, "Look's natural's life," sai~l one.
who did not notice .the quick running of the "Very much so, never saw one more like
rope, stooped beneath the hatch-way to pick it," replied his companion, and with a solemn
up some trifle that he saw there. They yelled nod of recognition to those he knew, he walked
from above, and those on the lower floor shout.. out with his friend.
ed to him to get out of the way, but he did "They've arranged the coffin nicely," said a
not hear them, and the immense box came little lady in a brown silk dress, to her com-
thundering down; just as it came within pinion, a tall, spare figure, with spectacles.
reach, and in a moment more would have "It will do," replied her friend, "but they've
crushed the poor negro beneath its ponderous got his hair parted on the wrong side, and I
weight, Mr. 'Cheerful sprang forward,' and never saw such a bundle of a knot as they
hurling himself against the box with almost have got in his neck-tie."
super-humpn energy, succeeded in swinging Several gentlemen come in together, and
it far enough out to save Samson's life, but at stepping forward take a kind and sympathis-
the terrible sacrifice of his own. The great ing look at their friend, some reverently bless-
effort he had made caused the rupture of a in~ themselves, and all of them much moved
vital blood vessel, hermorhage ensued, and al- at ~he sight. After a few remarks about the
though he was taken home, and a physician good qualities of the deceased they retire.
called at once, the loss of blood was too rapid Presently Mary lvkDonald came in, looking
and severe to admit of effectual assistance and pale and sorrowful. She had been with Mrs.


Cheerful since the death of her husband, had
assisted in arranging the flowers and candles
about the eoffiu, had worked on the inounring
which it was necessary to hastily prepare for
the family, and had performed many little du-
ties, small in themselves, but unspeakably
grateful to bereaved hearts, at such a time of
mourning as this. Thea Philip came. He
was one of the pall bearers, as was Carl Am-
ber who came with him. They were as hand-
some, intelligent and refined a couple as could
be s~hisen in the Crescent City. They ap-
pro~ched the coffin to look at their friend,
spoke in low whispers and then silently joined
Mary. Mr. MacVain soon after entered, and
kneeling by the corpse, made the blessed sign,
said a prayer for the dead, and then, with a
quiet recognitiQn of those present, retired.
Many others paid similar attentions to the
mortal remains, exposed for the las~t time, to
the eyes of this world's people. Then there
was a stir in the hall, visitors gave way and
with stiff and, stately walk, his head erect
and the short curling bair combed haughtily
away from his broad, cold forehead, Mr. Al-
fred Plant entered the mourning circle. Cast-
ing a look around the room to see who was
there worthy of his recognition, he calmly
advanced to the bier, looked at his late clerk
for a few moments and then retired to, the
gallery, where he was met by Mr. MacVain,
with himself appointed as pall bearers.
"A sad calamity, this," said Mr. MacVain, as
they exchanged salutations.
"Yes, it's a bad job," replied the other.
"A n~ble fellow, he was," said Mr. MacVain.
"That's what the world said," replied Mr.
Alfred Plant, coldy, "and he was a very com-
potent book-keeper, but unfit to manage his
own affairs, he was careless, thoughtless, and
extravagant.
"It was a generous act that cost his life,"
said Mr. MacVain, surprised at the other's
manner and language.
"I think it would have been more generous
to have thought of his children and let the
cussed nigger be killed," was the reply.
"It is a great pity, I am sorry for his fami-
ly," said Mr. MacVain.
"Yes-that's the sentiment of the world-
weep and cry because people who live beyond
their means finally find themselves poor," said
~ Alfred Plant, in a sneering, haughty man-

110

nor, "look at the extravagance of this turn
out, mahogany coffin, silver plate and a dozen
carriages, where's the money to come from to
pay for such display.
* "Indeed," replied Mr. MacVain, with a
slight touch of sarcasm, "the generosity of
your firm is so well known that I was sure the
whole matter had been planned and arranged
by your orders."
"No, sir. I have enough to do to attend to
my own affairs," wat the cold and dignified re-
ply.
"At such a time," said Mr. MacVain, as if
apologizing for the family, "people are not apt
to stop to think of economy, but think that
the best is not good enough for their loved
ones, and indeed I think it is a great ~nisfor-
tune for his poor wife."
"She's young and healthy," replied Mr. Al-
fred Plant, in an off-hand manner, as if to dis-
miss the subject, "and she's very good looking
-she'll soon mairy again."
Mr. ~!acVain made no reply in words, but
his look was full of anger, scorn and contempt,
quniling before it even the cool, calculating
Mr. Alfred Plant who felt the rebuke and turned
away. ~?rom that time they were never friends,
Mr. MacVain felt a thorough contempt, but
little concealed, while Mr. Plant disliked the
other frdm a knowledge of his own inferiority.
The house and yard was by this time filled
with those who had come to the funeral, the
relations came into the room, the Priest per-'
formed the appropriate ceremony of the Church,
the last sad farewells were said, the corpse was
carried to the hearse, the 'company entered the'
carriages and the cortege slowly and solemnly
moved away to the St. Louis Cemetery, where,
amidst the speechless grief of his fismily and
the silent, heartfelt sorrow of many friends,
the remains of Richard Cheerful were laid to
rest. In after years the place was often wet
with the bitter tears of the loved ones he left
behind, and decorated with bouquets and flow-
ers, or a simple wreath of evergreen, by the
hand of some person, who remembered and
thus acknowledged his unostentatious acts
of charity and benevolence.
Mr. Cheerful died in February, and it was
now the latter part of April. His business
affairs, as was expected, were in very bad or-
der, his liabilities summed up a very large
amount and the creditors were pressing in
bheir demands for money. Of all those whom

A TALE OF ANTE BELLUM TiMES.

I

b

111

2JARDI GRAS;

I
he had accommodated during his life, many of
whom were largely indebted to him at the
time of his death, only two had offered to as-
sist his bereaved family. One of these was a
baker, who had been started in his business
by Mr. Cheerful, and the other was a widow,
herself, poorly off, to whom he had loaned
from time to time, small 8ums of money.
The time had come when it was impossible
for Mrs. Cheerful to satisfy the creditors by
askin~a further delay and she was therefore
prep~rsng to call on some of their old 'friends
to ask their advice and assistance. She direct-
ed her steps towards the office of Cane, Plant
and Cotton where her husband had served so
many years. Mr. Cane was in Europe, and
had been absent for nearly a year, so that
she knew her business would be with
Mr. Plant. She had always received from him
the greatest courtesy and respect, and had no
doubt but that he would take an active and
friendly interest in her affairs.
Mr. Alfred Plant was walking up arid down
the elegantly furnished private office, his mea-
sured step was scarcely audible on the rich
carpet that covered the floor, he was without
his hat, and 'the smoke from his cigar, from
which he gave at regular intervals, meditative
puffs, curled in light clouds around his finely
shaped head, as with his hands crossed behind
him, he promenaded to and fro, lost in some
pleasing dreaming, or conning over some new
plan for business or pleasure.
Mrs. Cheerful noticed that a stranger held
Dick's o~d place, for Mr. Plant did not believe
in rotation with clerks but always aimed to
get the best man for the least possible money,
and hating long regarded Dick's salary as too
high, which he could not change before on ac- a
count. of the opposition to the movement by
Mr. Cane, he had filled the place with a new
man who would not expect so much as an old
hand in the house would have looked for, Mr. s
Cane being absent he was able to arrange the v
matter to suit his own views of "political e
economy."
As he made a turn in his walk Mr. Plant oh- ~
served his visitor and gracefully offered her a, ii
seat, which she accepted. He was quite socia-
ble and friendly, but in a ~igid, formal manner, a
"Mr. Plant, I have com9 to ask you for ad-
vice and assistance," she said after a few me- "
mentsconversation, at the word "assistance" h

he grew cold and dignified in the* extreme'
"my business is in a very bad state; we were in
debt when poor Dick died, and in order t~
satisfy these people, until I can earn money,
I am cernpelled to ask a loan."
"Yes-just as I supposed," replied Mr. Plant
"what do you propose to do to earn money."
"I was thinking, sir-of opening a school,'~
she replied, with hesitation, for she felt his
cold manner, "I could give music lesson~, and
have hopes of success."
"A school! that's alv~ays a woman's resort
that or a boardinghouse 1" exclaimed Mr. Plant~
impatiently.
"What shall I do, sir 7" she asked, nervously.
"Do! well, I don't know, can't you get a
situation in a millenery store or something of
that sort 7" he inquired.
"If I do, sir," she answered, " I will still
need ~assistance for a time."
"And I must give it, eh 7" he said, with a
sneer.
"Well, sir-I th~ought-perhaps-"
"How much did you want I" he inquired~
interrupting her.
"I think with-about five hundred dollars,"
she answered~ "I could pay them all some-
thing. I owe about fifteen hundred dollars-'
"And Mr. Cheerful's account was overdrawn
with us three hundred dollars," he said, again
interrupting her.
"Yes-well, it will all be paid in time," she
replied.
"In time! That's mere nonsense. You'll
iever pay any of it," he said, angrily, "but I
suppose you think that I am bound to support
~ou because your husband chanced to work for
no. Paid in time! That's what all borrowers
I shall do all I can to accomplish it," she re-
died.
"All very well, madam, all very well," he
aid, haughtily, "but I cannot assist you. It
rould be 'against the principles of political
economy to encourage living spendthrifts by
supporting the family of a dead one, and it
rould be no kindness to you to encourage you
i going into debt."
"I shall try to work out of debt, sir," she
uswered.
"Yes, but you can't," lie said, abruptly.
Your husband ought to have been ashamed of
himself for going in debt, and now what a fix


A TALE OF A.NTE BELL UM TIMES.         12    13lAEDGAS

you are left in; it was nothing but crimina1
extravagance in him to do it."
" I did not come to hear the memory of my
husband insulted," said Mrs. Cheerful, rising
to her fect. " He was a good, kind, generous
man."
"Very generous," -said he, with a sneer, "to
spend all he earned and leave you and your
children tQ be supported by me'.,,
"You have not done much towards it yet,"
she said, " and I do not wish you to do more)'
" Oh, here is ten dollars," he replied, in a
condescending manner, "and I may give more
by-and-by.','                     -
"Keep your money, sir, none of it will ever
pass through my hands," she said, in a calm,
his thousands before ykuCheerfaind teardig-
nity of a third class clerk, and he was,
through life, in all relations, whait you cap
never be-a gentleman.".
As she finished speaking she turned and left
the room, but had not gone far before he called
her back.
" She's a d-d pretty woman," he said, in
communion with himself. -A little flirtation
would be exciting for a change."
" Here, Mrs. Cheerful-really-" he said, as
she returned to the office- " if you must have
this money-why-I will give it to you, and-
I'll call to see how you get along ini a day or-
two."
" A peculiar light was playing in his eyes,
and a hypocritical smile spread over his face,.
With the innate feeling of self-protection al-
ways the companion of virtue, Mrs. Cheerful
drew back from him and indignantly replied:
"Not one dollar would I take from you if the
possession of it should purchase me ease and
comfort for the remainder of my life. I am
sorry that I wronged my feelings by coming.
here. You have insulted and slandered the-
memory of my husband, and I pray.God that
His malediction may follow you for it. Keep
your money ; treasure it in your heart ; draw
your soul more into your miserable self, if it
is possible, and live, as you always have, on
your own admirations. But don't come near
me ; never cross the threshold of my house, nor
recognize me in the street. I would not even
speak to a man for whom I felt the thorough
contempt and loathing that I do for you."
She was not like herself, her face flushed,

her eyes flashed with anger, and her whole
manner became haughty and dignified, as she
looked for a moment at the baffled rouc and
then retired, leaving him to his .own thoughts
and fancies.
CHAPTER xXII.
The summer season being at :hand, the
s' floating population " of the Crescent city,
those who had made fair profits in business
during the season, the capitalists and property-
holders who had gathered in fine rents and
dividends, and the clerks, mechanics and
artisans, who had saved the splendid wages
that had rewarded their labors, were preparing
to go North or Westward to spend or invest
their "balances," ihus leaving th Crescent
City thousands of dollars poorer, and furnish-
ing a cogent reason for the continued existence
of the swamps and forests, and the non-im-
provement of the hundreds of beautiful sites
for country seats, gulf and lake coast resi-
dences in the neighborhood of that city. .
Mr. Macourty was'one of those who believed
in home improvements. His surplus capital
was invested in real estate and stocks of his
own State and city, and his summer i-etreat
was on the lake coast, as well improved,
pleasant and healthy a location as could have
been found in any part of the Union.
-As he sat at the tea table, his family around
him, they were talking over their departure for
Biloxi, and each one had some happy sugges-
tion to make about the arrangements
"I think .you ought to send over a new
piano," said Cecelia, "the ,one we had last
year was about played out
" I don't think you a'played it out,'" said
young George, "for yen hardly ever touch a
piano."
" Yes I do," replied Cecelia, sharply, "I play
as good as Annie."
" Well, I'll see about it," said Mr. Macourty,
drawing from his coat pocket a large package,
neatly tied up.
" What is that, my dear i" inquired his wife.
" It is three thousand dollars, for Jones," he
replied. " He will be here in the morning for
it."
" Why did he not go to the store for it 7"
''Well, he is not much of a business man and

I

112

preferred coming here," he replied. " The
deeds for the lots are all made out and signed,
so I told him to come here and get'his money,
ats he wanted it that way." .
The conversation was continued until the
meal was over, turning on various subjects of
interest at the time. When they were retiring
at night, Mrs. Macourty remarked that "Mrs.
McDonald's family would leave on Wednesday
for the North." -
."Yes; Philip is going as far as Montgomesy
.with them," he replied. -
" I am sure it will be a pleasant trip for
hims," she said.
" I am glad he is going,/' he replied. " He
needs some recreation. It will do him good."
h" He came out allright ater al, did, he not?'
"My dear, I am as much gratified at the fact
as you are."
Iknow it, George," she replied.
" Yes, if I'hilip was my own son I could not
think more of him than I do," he said, eanest-
ly, "and I am proud to say that he is all that
I could wish, and, by the way, I got a letter
from Len Browsee to-day." -
,"Ah! is -he coming home in".
." No ; he likes the country so well that he
has written to have his mother and sistrs
come over," he replied, " and I have been
thinking of establishing a branch house there'.
Len has recovered his health, he says, so that
he can attend to business, and he likes thie idea
of a branch house, which I have .no doubt
would be very successful."
" He is a careful, good man," said Mrs. Ma-
courty, " and willnianage the business proper-
ly, I know."
-"Yes ; I think so, and snall make arrange-
ments to send his folks over and remit him
funds to commence business there."
" That reminds me," said his wife, with a
sudden start, " what did you do with that
package of money 7"     ..'
"It is here," he replied, laughing, " and I I
will stick it under the foot of the mattress.- No
cne will ever think of looking there for it,
even if such a thing was possible that any one I
would come at all." -
While they were in the sitting room next j
morning, Mr. Macourty reading aloud such x
items from the morning paper as were of in- I
terest, one of the servants came in and ani-

nounced that Mr. Jones was waiting in the
parlor.
"y George, the money is up stairs yet !"
exclaimed Mr. Macourty, anid he ran up stairs
for it, but soon called out to his wife to know
if she had taken it. Mrs. Macourty hurried up
stairs and said she had not seen it since the
night before. They searched the bed, armoir,
bureau, everywhere, but it was gone. All the
servants were questioned, and, the children
were called in and asked if they knew any-
thing about eit. The search was fruitless. Mr.
Macourty knew that he had placed it between
the mattresses at the foot of the bed and that
he had not seen it since, yet it could nowhere
be found. There was no way for it but to ask
Mr. Jones' into breakfast and then take him
downtownandpay im tere
That evening Cecelia called at M. Le Cras-
seaurK's, and, as was usual in pleasant weather,
she and FeliZ went out for a pro nenade. Ever
since her short 'residence at Le Crasseaux's it
had been a settled thing with the neighbors
that "it was to be a match." These rumors
had reached Mrs; Macourty, who remonstrated
with Cecelia, telling her that there were many,
good young men who visited the house thai
she would prefer to see her marry, pointing out
Felix's indolent, unsteady character, his lack
of energy and perseverance, and exercising all
her Arts of persuasion to prevent the match.
But Cecelia was only made stronger in her de-
termination by, this advice, and constantly
thought herself the most abused of human
beings. Mr. Macourty had joined his wife in
her opposition at first, but, finding the girl
headstrong, bad privately told her that be
thought it best to give Felix a little start in
business and let them go ahead. This hia
wife, being unwilling to give up her efforts to
change Cecelia's mind, had kept to herself.
-But Felik had never told his love. All that
Cecelia knew was merely by inference fronm his
actions and the talk of the neighbors. She
had often endeavoredl to " draw him out * but
all the satisfaction shle could get was that "he
wvas too poor to marrkr, if he had a little money
he knew who he wenuld ask to be his wife' Al-
hiough it pleased him to have the neighbors
oke him about C celia, he boasted that he had
never told her t at he loved her, never had
hinted at such a 1hing and did not know how-
he could think i.

113

MARDI GRAS;


A TALE OF ANTE BELL UAJ TIMES.           114   115                      MA1?DI aRAS:

The fact was that the wily young Creole wedding suit, bat I'll keep the rest until we're
thought Cecelia was a very nice girl, an~1 as he married."
had no particular choice, he was waiting to see "Oh, you may lose it," he urged. "Give me
what her adopted parents would do for her, the package, and. to-morrow I'll put all that
when, if he was satisfied with the arrange- we don't want in the bank, where it w11 be
ments, he had no doubt he could very easily safe."
come toan                                                               replied,
understanding with her.          "No, sir, there's no use talkin'v " she
Cecelia was now determined to have the firmly, "it will be time enough for you to have
matter settled, and as they walked leisurely it when we are married."
along towards Lafayette Square, she led him The more Felix talked the more explicit ~he
over to one of the benches, and there, while the grew about the terms on which she would sur-
moon shone out brightly and the evening render the money and he finally agreed to her
breezes blew soft and cool, she renewed the arrangements.
attack.                                    During that night she removed her clothes
"Wouldn't it be pleasant," she said. in a from Mrs. Macourty's and he took his from his
confiding tone, "to have a nice little home of uncle's house, both parcels being left at the
your own, where you could be comfortable and house of the milk*-man who served Mr. Macour-
happy after the toils of the day." ty's fami[~ '4th milk. About twelve o'clock
"Yes-that would be good."              next day Cecelia. said she wanted to make
"Wouldn't it be nice," she continued, lean- some calls, and Mrs. Macourty offered no oppo-
ing on his arm, "to runoff to Mobile and get sition to her going. About half past two she
married, then go North for a month or two and drove up in a cisrriage to the house of the milk*
Then return." man, where Felix was waiting for her, and,
"But that would take money," he answered, after putting on their baggage, they drove off
carelessly. for thQ Pontchartrain Railroad. The next day,
"How much would you want to commence about noon, they arrived at Mobile and before
on'?" she asked, looklng~e~irnestly into his face. dinner time they were married. Cecehia was
"Oh, to commence right, a man ought to greatly elate(l at her success in getting away
have-" he answered, in a calculating manner, without being suspected of any such design,
"well-twelvu or fifteen hundred dollars- and Felix was equally well pleased at the
more than I expect to have for-a long time." prospect of soon having, what seemed to him,
"Is that all ?" sbe asked, in surpi~ise. "1've an unlimited supply of money.
got more than that."                       "You are my wife now, Cecelia," said Felix,
"You have                              as they sat in their room  at the "Battle
"Yes; I've got three thousand dollars !" she House," "and I am sure our life will be one of
triumphantly answered.                   true happiness."
"Where is it'? how did you get it I" he in- "I hope so," said Cecehia, producing a bag
quired, his whole manner changed and he be- ti a~ jingled pleasantly to his ears, "and asyou
came a~once all interest and attention.  are the man you had better carry the money;
"Never mind how I got it," she replied, you will find our tickets to New York in there,
"I've got it, and it's mine. I received it from too."
an uncle of mine in New York and I want to He thanked her, and * eagerly seizing the bag,
go on to see him."                       turned the gold out on the table and counted
"Where is it'?" he asked again,        it over.
"Oh, you don't believe I've got it," she said, "Why, there is only a little over five hun-
taking from her bosom the package that Mr. dred dollars here," he said, with a disappoint-
~[acourty had missed in the morning, "see, ed air, "I thought you said you had three
here it is.,, thousand."
"They look nice, don't they'?" he said, pick- "So I did; but we are going to New York,
jug up two bills of twenty dollars each, "you ain't we'?" she replied. "Well, that's enough
had better let me keep it for you." to take us on and back, and if we had more we
"No you don't !" she exclaimed, hastily re- might spend it or loose it, aol just put twenty-
turning the package to its hiding place, "you four hundred in bank before I left home, and
can have that forty dollars to buy your that'll be there when we get back."

"You are right," he said, feeling that it
would do ~io good to say anything else, "and
it was very wise in you to do it."
As they were walking along the street next
day, Felix lagging behind, Cecelia met Philip,
who was returning to New Orleans, after ac-
companying the McDonald's as fnr as Mont-
gomery.
"Why, Cecelia, what are you doing over
here'?" said Philip,
"I am on my way to New York," she replied.
~tThe deuce you are," he exclaimed.
"Yes, six~, I am," she answered and, turning
to Felix, who just then came up, she said, "and
this is my husband."
Philip was much surprised, hut, as it was
none of his business, he merely congratulated
them, wished them much happiness and passed
on. Arriving in New Orleans, he informed Mr.
Macourty of his meeting with Cecelia, and, for
the first time that gentleman formed a correct
suspicion of where his lost money had gone.
Although he felt very indignant at the un-
grateful girl, he said nothing about t~he matter,
but concluded, as he told his wife, that he had
got rid of her cheap.
CHAPTER XxXLu.
Mr. Percy MacVain, having met a severe
disappointment in his courtship wi h Mary,
had returned again to his search fter Mrs.
Macourty's lost child, and displayed ~ en more
energy than before. But the time had passed
when he could reasonably hope for success. If
living, the lost one was no longer a child, but a
woman in years, and in all probability so
changed that none of her relatives ever would
know her. He called again on Mr. Emanuel,
but received no satisfaction. The pawn-broker
said that his clerk, a stupid fellow that he sel-
dom left in his store alone, had told him the
day before, when he Came in after a few mo-
mdnt's absence, that a young lady had called
and looked at all the crosses in the store, but
went away without buying, as she said the
one she wanted was not there. He thought
that she was merely a "shopper," and had, I
therefore, paid no attention to her appearance,
and could tell nothing more about the matter.
Mr. MacVain, in his own mind, entered up the
~Ludgment that this was the person for whom

he was looking, but as she had been disap-
pointed in her search, the probabilities were
that she would not come again. Reluctantly
admitting this view of~ the case he left the
store and turned his steps towards the Astor
House, where Mr. McDonald's folks were stay-
ing at the time. As he walked down the
street, a gentleman on the other side, turned
to the lady with him and said.
"Cecelia, there goes Mr. MacVain."
"Mr. MacVain-who is lie ?"
"Why, he's a great friend of Mr. Macourty,
don't you know him'?"
"No, I never would go into the parlor when
he called there," she replied, "although I re-
member hearing them speak of him."
Feli4 Le Crasaseaux and his bride went on
their way, she pointing out to him many ob-
jects of interest that she remembered, and tell-
ing him of some of the grand displays she had
seen in the city.
-When ML. MacVain called at Mr. McDonald's
rooms, he found them all well and much
pleased to see him.
"Let me introduce to you my old friend, Mr.
Sellwell," said Mary to him, and that gentle-
man stepped ~forward and gave him a~ warm
reception.
"Happy to see you, ~r. MacVain," said Mr.
Sahiwehl.
"And I am glad to s~e you," said 'the other
and, after a closer look~ he continued, "do you
ever practice pistol shooting now ?"
"What! upon my word! why, I didn't
recognize you," said Sam.
"I seldom forget faces," replied Mr. Mac.
Vain, "although I am not as good at remem-
bering names."
"You are not married yet Mr. Sellwell ?" in-
quired Mrs. McDonald.
"Not I, indeed," said Sam, gaily. "it would
be a sin to iiiflict such a punishment as myself
an any lady"'
"Now, that is the way people talk," replied
~Irs. McDonald, "when they are on the point
)f committing matrimony."
"Indeed, you are wrong, persisted Sam.
"Mr. McDonald came in just then, and was
pleased to see the visitors and joined in the
conversation .
"You have not made up your mind to visit
rnr city yet," he said to Sam.
"Well1 not exactly" renhied Sam. ~'

115

ALARDI GRAS:


A T ALE 01F A NTE BELJLUM TI MES.     11    1                      AD    RS

fact is, I am afraid of your friend Yellow Jack,
as you call him." ,
" Ah ! ha! yellow fever, eh 7" said Mr. Mc-
Donald, " oh ! he wouldn't trouble you, he'
know s our friends." :
" I think I might have gone out there but for
that," said Sam. w. do' hn   elwfvra
"I assure youwednttikylofvras.
dangerous as many other diseases that you
have here and elsewhere," replied Mr. McDon-
ald.
"It depends almost entirely on the nursing
and attendance that the patient receives," said
Mrs. McDonald,
" Certainly," said MacVain. ,
"If you come out you shall have the best of
care if you are sick," said Mrs. McDonald,
" and , although I am not much skilled -in
medicines, I am sure we would help you
through a light with the saffron gentleman."
" I will think it over," replied Sam.
.After an hour or two passed thus in friendly
conversation they parted. Mr. McDonald lind
acknowledged Sam's kindness to Mary by
several valuabl- presents, and had offered to-
do more, but Sam positively refused to accept
the favor, threatening, if the subject was again
referred to, he would be very much insulted.
The autumn brought the usual tide of re-
turning citizens and strangers to New Orleans.
Cecelia's first business on her return home,
was to purchase, in her own name, a lot of
ground, with a small cottage on it, which,
with the furniture she bought, took up nearly
one half of her reserve fund. Felix had a no-
tion of cabinet-making, repairing furniture,
etc., and she gave him the balance of the
money to start a shop in thatline; before doing
so, however, she required of him a marriage
contract acknowledging the reciept of the
money from her. She had got comfortably
settled in her new home when Mr. Macourty
called on her and congratulated her on her
happy union.
" The money which you took from me," he
said, " you are welcome to. Had you come to
me and told -your determination to marry, I
would have done better by yonu; but, as you
chose to help yourself, I shall accept the bar-
gain as it stands."
Finding herself detected, Cecelia made no
effort to deny the charge, but thanked him for
his kindness and invited him to call often.
The neighbors were now satisfied. .The

question of the match between Felix and
Cecelia was settled, and they had very little
further to say about them, and when they did
talk, they found a match in Cecelia, who was
able to hold her own with the best gossip of
them all,.
CHAPTER XXXIV. ~
All Saints' Day, one of the greatest holy days
of the year's calander in the Catholic city of
New Orleans, dawned cold and cloudless on the
city, bringing to thousands of hearts and
homes sorrowful memories of the loved and
lost, and the whole city, as if with one accord,
came forth to visit the " Cities of the Dead,"
and express their deep regrets and cherished
loves for the silent ,sleepers, resting there
from the cares and troubles of this changing
world.       '.
To the stranger who chances to be within
the Crescent City it is a strange, solemn, yet
pleasing sight, to see the unanimity of feeling
amongst her citizens that prompts them thus
to visit'the homes of the dead, decorating thie
places where their friends repose, and treating
with reverence the humblest grave, whose oc-
cupant, long since forgotten, perhaps with no,
friends left to tell over his virtues, is now
numbered with the long li of " unknown."
No other holy day, or holiday, in the year's
circle, so thoroughly enlists the hearts and
sympathies of the people as this, the first day
of November, known in the Church as All
Saints' Day
Business is almost entirely suspended, the
clerks, even of the most exacting employers, are
allowed ant hour or two, and the streets are
thronged from morning to night by crowds of
people of both sexes, of all ages, , conditions
and nativities, going to and fro between the
different cemeteries,.
In the depot of the Carrollton Railroad there
was a fruit stand, kept by a young Italian,
then almost a stranger in the city. One end of
his counter was cleared up, a white cloth with
a neatly fringed border was spread over it, on
whhinh lay a bunch of rare and beautiful flow-
ers, and a long, tapering candle was burning'
beside it,.
" What does this mean P inquired a passer- .
by of the young man.,

116

I

"For my mother, sir," the Italian reverently
replied, "I cannot visit her grave, for she
rests'in my own native country, " yet I can
remember her here.",.
What a touching and beautiful tribute to the
memory of his mother ! Thousands of miles
separated him from the soil that held her
oherish'.d form ; the deep ocean rolled between
them ; he was a stranger in a strange land;
friendless and alone, yet his heart wyas full of
the memory of the past, and, although he
mnigh, not decorate the little green mound, he
could not forget her affection and care. In his
far distant native land her body reposes, but
the spirit of that mother hovers in eternal love
over the path of her affectionate son. .
In all the cemeteries, Protestant as well as
Catholic, Odd Fellows', Masonic and Firemen's,
the graves were decorated, the mementoes,
consisting of every ornament that love and do-
votedness could suggest. The tombs a ere
newly whitewashed, the railings enclosing
those buried in " mother earth " were repaint-
ed, the slabs and head boards were washed or
newly varnished, fresh sods were laid and
choice flowers planted around the sacred
places'.
On the tombs and graves were placed bou...
quets of the rarest and most fragrant flowers,
the funeral wreath, evergreens in crosses and
wreaths, immortelles, flowers in vases, statuettes
representing faith, hope' and charity, and an
innumerable number of miscellaneous orna-
ments. Everywhere the living were to be seen
coming with their offerings, or already arrived,
arranging, in the most appropriate and taste-
ful manner, the decorations over the resting
places of deceased friends, while thousands of
visitors crowded every avenue by which "God's
Acre " was intersected, divided and arranged.
Mounds of earth, tombs of brick, granite and
marble attracted attention on every hand,
many of them the receptacles of some
of the oldest inhabitants of the city, some of
the families being wholly extinct.; Here
were monuments and cenotaphs to 'the old
citizens and cherished sons of the State, who,
when living, had, by their acts, illutninated the
page 'of history, or left a name for charity and
the good deeds that enshrined them in the
hearts of their fellow -citizens. Affectionate
tributes were every where seen and many beau-.
tiful inscriptions were displayed, one of

w hich would with appropriate meaning apply
to all:*
"A household tomb, to faith how dear-
Aar hae goe, part linger here;
A household still."
In the immense throngs that were going
and coming, it would be impossible to describe
all the beautiful scenes that occurred. But in
the Cemeteries of St. Louis, the oldest in the
city, the custom was best observed, here the
observance of the day was a duty and devel-
oped into a true Christian sacrifice.
Three ladies, followed by a colored servant,
with a basket filled with flowers, entered and
going to an elegant marble tomb, the front of
which rested on pillars of the same stone,
.where art had modelled beautiful figures and
inscribed a glowing epitaph, the ladies with
delicate taste adorned the tomb with the flow-
ers, and then devoutly knelt in prayer.
A family group came in, and one, a little
child of scarce four years, carried a beautiful
bouquet of violets, tripping along, it at last
stopped before a modest looking tomb and left
the flowers for "little brother," who wnshimself
a flower in Heaven. The mother knelt and
tears chased each otlher down her cheeks,'as
she thought of the little curly head that for a
brief time nestled on her breast.
And there comes, with light elastic step,
form erect and cheeks glowing with youthful
health and beauty, a lady scarcely yet reached
her twentieth year, yet the sombre weeds of a
widow, cloth her form, the long crape veil
crape collar and bonnet, and all the other
signs of recent bereavement are hers. She
pauses before a recently opened tomb, the
plaster that sealed it up is not yet dry, and
here she kneels to weep and pray. The folds
were not yet out of her bridal costume, when
she donned the garb of a mourner, a maiden
wife and widow, all in the short period of one
month.
We say that this grief will be assuaged by
passing years, the smile will come again, the
lips will become mobile once more, and the
bloom of happiness will chase the paleness
from her cheeks. Truly, we say, it is a mnerci-
ful provision that time dries all tears, soothes
the wounded heart and heals all sorrows.
Pause a moment in the judgment.
Here comes leaning his tottering I'orm on his
heavy cane, a man, on whom the suns of near-

117


A TALE OF AI'IE DEL iUM TIMES.          118    119                   MARDI GRAS;

iy eighty s mmere have shone. His hair,
whito and s~ft as silken fio~s, falls over his
shoulders, hi head is bent down, and his face
has been browned by exposure and furrowed
with trouble and care. He frequently pauses
in his walk, for he is old and feeble, and he
reads as he passes along the inscriptions by
the way. Ah! so many die young, yet he is
left to wander and mourn alone, for all of his
circle have gone before him. At last he pauses
before an old brick tomb, around which wild
shrubs and rank grass are growing, and over
its sides the green moss clusters here and
there-we should say it was neglected and
that the occupants were all long since forgot-
ten, but that we see him there, and the immor
tdlles that he has bought to hang on the old
tomb. There are six wreaths, siniple and
plain, but of different sizes, and there are six
occupants ia this house of the dead. The
largest wreath is in memory, of the wife and
mnpther, who sleeps side by side with her five
children, for whom the smaller wreaths are
mementoes. Having arranged his offering,
the old man leans upon the tomb and seems
lost in reveries of the past, while t~ars course
their way down his wrinkled cheeks; the pas-
sers by, all things are unnoticed and uncared
for by him. We quietly steal to his side and
read the simpJe inscriptions on the old tomb,
and start back surprised, for the last of those
silent sleepers, was laid away to rest full thir-
ty years ago!
What! do human grief and human constancy
last so long?
Early in the forenoon Mrs. Cheerful and the
children went to the St. Louis Cemetery, tak-
ing each one a bouquet or wreath, which they
placed upon the plain and unpretending tomb
that contained the remains of Mr. Cheerful.
A plain, marbieslab, bore his name, place and
date of birth and death, and a modest tribute
to his virtues as a husband and father .ind his
upright character as a citizen.
After decorating the tomb, Mrs. Cheerful,
with the children around her, knelt and offered
up their petitions to Our Heavenly Father for
the soul of their loved one. These devotions
over, they all arose and after a longtng look at
the tomb, turned to go away. .i~ust then a
gentleman who had been respectfully waiting
at a distance for them to leave, came forward
and placed on the vault an elegant bouquet.

Mrs. cheerful happened to look back and wit-
nssse~l the action, and recognized Mr. ~Mac-
Vain, who, seeing that he was observed came
forward and spoke to her, and then to each of
the children itt a kind and friendly manner.
"I was coming up to see you ~ he
said as they walked on, "I only got home two
or three days ago."
"I am glad to see you Mr. MacVain," she
replied.
"I wished to speak to you," he said, in the
most friendly tone, "about business. I have
heard of your interview last spring with Mr.
Plant and the unkind answer he gave you, and
I much regret that I did not know of it sooner.
Your husband and I were good friends, more so
perhaps than you knew of, and it will be a
great pleasure to me to see that his family are
well provided for."
"I thank you Mr. MacVain," she replied,
"but I have commenced a school and hope to
meet with success-"
"Excuse me," he said, interrupting her, "I
do not wish to be offensive or to intrude, what
I offer is based on my high esteem of your ex-
cellent husband, and the deep respect I feel
for yourself. I have no doubt but that in time
you will \succeed with your school but for the
present ~ou will need assistance . I have heard
the whole story of your troubles and truly
sympathize with you for the vexations you
have had, but you must not feel backward
about accepting help from me. Should you
succeed as you hope to and as you deserve,
you can repay me, but otherwise it must never
give you the least uneasiness."
They conversed further about her business
as they walked towards Canal street and Mr.
MacVain promised that he wo~ild arrange
everything properly and in such a manner that
she would be troubled no more.
Although Mr. MacVain acted in the kindest
and most delicate manner and was thoughtful
and respectful in all he said, it was a great mor-
tification to her to be compelled to acceptassist-
ance, but there was no alternative between that
and seeing her children turned on the street,
for ~r. Shavier who held Mrs: Cheerful's note
for a thousand dollars had already obtained
judgment for the amount.
She had just laid aside her bonnet and shawl,
after returning home, when Mary McDonald
called to see her.

1

118

"I am so glad to see you, Mary, dear," she
said, "for I have been in great trouble the past
few days, and this visit to poor Dick's grave
has recalled so many joys and pleasures that
can come again no more. Oh! I am so glad
that my dear, kind, good husband cannot
know of the trouble and mortification, the ter-
rible sorrow that I have had since his death, it
would make him so miserable. He was always
so thoughtful, so gentle and loving and now to
think of him, in that narrow cell."
Mrs. Cheerful gave way to the sorrow that
filled her heart, for a time she sat almost mo~
tionless, her face burned in her hands, while
she cried bitterly over her terrible bereave-
ment. Tears did her good, and after them,
she looked up relieved and more composed.
"He is not in that narrow cell," said Mary,
soothingly, "only the body, the earthly clay
lies there, immortal spirit, the soul which God
gave, relieved from worldly cares and ail-
iments, is now rejoicing in the realms of bliss.
We know that he was a just and upright man,
living in the fear and love of our Heavenly Fa-
ther. That charity for others which\he prac-
ticed with an open hand will be returned to
him now many, many times over, and as he'
lived and walked in the ways of our Holy1
Church and died with faith and confidence in I
the intercession of Our Holy Mother and the
mercy of Him who died on the Cross, we
know that he is now receiving his rich reward'
with those who surround the eternt4 throne,
where the love, power and splendor of the
Holy Trinity are sung in anthems of praise,
and the voice that we loved to hear so much
here on earth is yet xi~ore clear and har-
monious in that Heavenly choir."
"There, Mary, darling, very true, but it so
hard to lose one so dear t~ us," replied Mrs.
Cheerful.                               I
"It is natural and it is right th~t we should
mourn the loss of those who are near and dear
to us," said Mary, while her face beamed with I
th~ holy faith that filled her soul, "yet we
should remember that after a well spent life,
our loss is indeed their gain, and while we
feel poignant grief for their departure, we
should turn with confidence to mother Church
for strength and consolation, for truly the Ca-
tholic f.tith is an anchor and safeguard to
those who are oppressed with sorrow and be-
reavement. Row nothingg to the torn heart
~tre a few moments of devout prayer and mcdi-

tati' n in a quiet1 holy church before the altar
of the Blessed Mary, or in the seclusion of your
own room before the emblem of salvation."
"God bless, you, Mary," replied Mrs. Cheer-
ful, "you are always so comforting, you direct
my thoughts in th~ way they ought to go and
I sometimes wonder that one so young and
gay can appreciate sorrow as you do."
"I have seen it myself, have lost dear friends
and have been in deep trouble too," said Mary~
and then changing the subject she continued,
"but you wanted to see me."
"I want you to help me arrauge Dick's pa-
pers," replied Mrs. Cheerful. '1 never have
mustered courage to touch them and there
they are in his desk just as he left theni2!
"When do you wish it done ?"
"Any time, whenever you have leisure."
"I will help you now, if it will be con-
venient for you," replied Mary, and the offer
was at once accepted.
One of the children brought a hunch of keys
one of which unlocked "Papa's desk," and1the
turning over, examination and assortment of
Dick's accounts, letters and papers was begun.
Having been a book-keeper he had~kept every.~
body's papers straight but his own and they
were all mixed through each other. Here
were old bills from the time he served as "mud
clerk" on the Mississippi, bills of fare and oth-
er papers connected, with his trips as first
clerk in the Louisville trade, letters from pas.-
sengers who had traveled with him and re-
turned thanks for courtesies shown them, ~the
portraits of numerous passengers, both ladies
and gentlemen, who had grown enthusiastical-
ly friendly during their voyage, copies of old
songs, violin strings, sheet inneic, half worn
cravats, and some dozen or more due bills
from men to whom he had made loans of
money.
"These you ought to give to Mr. MacVain,"
said Mary, as she came to some of the last
mentioned articles, "a~ he has promised to at-
tend to your business, he might get something
for them."
"Just leave them out tl~en, Mary," replied
Mrs. Cheerful, "and I will show them to him."
"Mamma, there is a geatleman in the parlor
wishes to see you," said one of the children.
"Very well, dear, tell him I am coining,"
her mother replied, preparing to go.
"What is this 1" asked Mary, as she opened

119


A TALE UF ANTJii

a neatly done up package and drew out a
formal looking document, "a policy of insur-
ance?"
"1 suppose it is," replied Mrs. Cheerful, "wS
always had our furniture insured, Dick said it
was best to do so," and she went to the parlor
to see what the gentleman wa~ited.
'~ Mrs. Cheerful ?" said the gentleman, rising
and politely bowing to her.
Yes, sir."
"My n~me is Bloss, madam, Henry Bloss,
attorney-at-law."
Mrs. Cheerful felt her cheeks pale, and a
chill passed over her as she thought of the
~iuit SIr. Shaver had brought against her,
t~r the thousand dollars Dick owed him.
"Be seated Mr. Bloss," she replied, recover-
ing herself, "you wish to see me on business ."
"Yes, madam."               -
"Proceed, I am ready."
"You wrote, madam, some six weeks ago"
l~e replied, "to Mr. William Belden of Ne
York, advising him of your husband's death"
"I did, sir, my husband used to send hi
*,oney to be paid to an aunt residing nen
New York. I should have written sooner b t
I had forgotten hi~ address."
"Yes, madam, he informed that you said o
md wrote to me as an ~ld friend of his to at.
reud'~ to the .business. I should have called
sooner but I was in Bat~n Rouge on affairs of
toy own."
"Yes, sir! What business did he wish you Ic
attend to I"
"Then you really knew nothing about it?
Why, bless my soul, here's a pleasant sur-
prise I"
"surprise! What surprise ?" inquired Mrs.
CheerfuL "Is his aunt coming out here 1"
"Aunt? There is no aunt about it," he re-
plied. "The money that Mr. Cheerful remit-
~ed so regularly to Mr. Belden was not for his
a~unt at all."
"Not for his aunt! You are mistaken, sir."
"No, madam, I am not. The fact is, that
when Mr. Cheerful was in New York, some
years ago, he had his life insured, and Mr. Bel-
den acted as his agent in paying the annual
premiums."
"His life insured 1"
"Yes, madam, that's what he did. Hegot
ten thousand dollars in the Good Provision
Company, of which Mr. l3~Lden is president,

I

BELL WI! TIMES.                      120
and ten in the Family Protecting, and five
each in the All Right and Forethought Com-
panies-making in all thirty thousand dollars."
"You surprise me, sir."
"I expect so, madam. You see, Mr. Belden
became acquainted with Mr. Cheerful through
some mutual friends in New York, and intro-
duped to him the advantages of life assurance.
Mr. Cheerful, with his usual good judgment-
for I knew your hvsband well-entered into
the matter at once, and the premiums have
been regularly paid ever since. Something
like five or six hundred dollars a year it was."
"Yes, I remember we~l," replied Mrs. Cheer-
ful, "and he told me it was for an old aunt of
his. The fact is, I had opposed his desire to
get his life insured, and I suppose he thought
it would worry me if he told me he had done
it, although since his death I have thought I
was wrong in keeping him from doing so."
"Well, as soox~ as Mr. Belden received your
letter he called on the other companies inter-
ested, and he now writes me to pay you five
thousand dollars on account, and send on the
legal proofs of Mr. Cheerful's death when the
balance of the money will be remitted at once.~t
"I hardly know what to say. I am much
surprisedd at this good fortune.~~
"If Mr. Belden had been written to sooner
von would have had this money long ago,~' re-
,lied Mr. Bloss; "as it is, here is a check for
lie five thousand dollars, and the balance will
~oon come.
The business was arranged. Mr. Bloss're
tired, promising to call again as soon as he
heard from New~ York, and Mrs. Cheerful re-
turned to Mary.
"See, Mrs. Cheerful," said Mary, as she en--
tered, "theseare not fire policies, but life in-
sura~1ce policies, and they have been regularly
renewed. Here are the receipts."
"I know, my dear," replied Mrs. Cheerful;
"the gentleman who called just now came
about that. Here is a check for five thousand
dollars on account, and he says the remainder
will be here in about three weeks, as soon as
certain documents needed in the. ease can be
sent on and answered."
When Mr. MacVain called on the day fol-
los~'ing, Mrs. Cheerful gave him the check and
an account of the interview with Mr. Bloss.
All the rapers were placed in his hands, with
a list of the amounts she owed, including the
three hundred dollars due Cane, PlaAt &amp; Cot-

ton, and all of thcse 'ebts were paid at once.
By the advice of Mr. Mac Vain she purchased
a nice little place where her family would
have a comfortable home, and the remainder,
with that soon received from New York, was
well and judiciously invested.
CHAPTER XXXV.
At the time that our story opened the
chronicles 6f the day were lamenting that
the ancient spirit of the Carnival t~ime had
disappeared an(l that Mardi Gras day, the
grand finale of the season of pleasure had been
given over to a c~ wd of roughed; that half
grown youths, neitheV men nor boys, had usur-
ped the obse~ance of a day that had once been
a time ofjoyous hilarity, and had turned it into
a rioting scene of rowdyism and buffoonery,
inften throwing mud, bric1~s and other danger-
ous missiles, covering the unlucky passer by
with flour or worse still, white sand and lime,
eudanmge~iug the life and lm~alth of their
victims.
The progress of our narrative has brought us
to a more pleasant time, the over grown boys
net with more propriety, and the rowdies have
retired altogether or keep within bounds, and
the ancient feeling that made the day one of
so much pleasure, has returned with renewed
strength. For two or three week-s mysterious-
ly delivered envelopes, enclosing cards of rare
beauty and tiste had been circulating in the
Crescent City, commanding the recipimmts to
appear at the Gaiety Theatre on Mardi Qras
night, Tuesday, February 16th 1858, there to
meet Comu~s, the God of Festivity and his
Mistic Krewe. The secrecy observed by the
Krewe and the fact that all the invitations
were complimentary and not transferable,
gave the affair additional interest, and the
fair ladies and gallant beaux of the city were on
the qei vice anxiously expecting, each one, that
their invitations would come next. When
Philip received his, he scrutinized it carefully
and exclaimed "That's from Mr. MacVain, I'll I
bet."                                   Ii
The Krewe, which has since become a cher- (
ished institution with the good people of our t
Southern Metropolis, had made their first ap-
pearance the proceeding year with so mouch ~
success, that their second festival was looked a

forward to with great delight, and although a.
thousand tongues asked, "Wno are the. Mistic
Krewe of Comus I" there was not one to an--
swer with the certainty that he was correct.
The knowing ones, nodded their heads, looked
wise and pointed in the direction of the Delta.
Club, but who ever they might be, all were-
agreed that they were gentlemen of wealth,
for that was proven by the expensive and
brilliant costumes they wore and the freedoni.
with which they dispensed their favors, that
they were men of education and refinement,
because of the good taste displayed in the se-
Jection of -~ubjects for their parades and the
appropriateness of all the appointments rela~
ting to their exhibitions, and that they were
men of public spirit was evident from the fact
of their endeavors to add to the enjoyment of
the masses by their elegant torch-light pro-
cessions through the streets, restoring to the
festival much of that ancient glory, the de-
parture of which had heeti i~ cause of regret to~
all.
The day was warm, bright and beautiful
and the services at the different churches were-
well attended. As the morrow would usher in
the season ~f Lent, given u~ to religious ob-
servances, when all festivities and public
amusements would be abandoned for the time?
it is not strange that the Carnival season
should culminate on Mardi Gras day, with all
sorts of innocent amusements, out of doors
and in doors, grotesque processions, prac-
tical jokes and a universal abandon to
festivity and merry making. The stores were
kept open it is true, hut very little restraint
was placed on the employees, and both mer-
chants and their clerks, were mo~uf the day
around their store doors, or on the street
[ocking at the sights. Everywhere maskera
were to be seen, singly and in groups, repres-
~nting an endlesss variety of characters, from
mis Majesty of the Realms Below, to the gay
~avalier of ancient times.
A troop of dusty savages, in war paint and
magle plumes, mounted on spirited horses, rode
rough the city, wheeling here and there,
uttering the wild "whoop" and going through
~ther evolutions peculiar to the warriors of
he forest.
Numerous groups in express and baggage-
vagons drove through the city, some dressed
s clowns, some as knights, others as gentle-
16

4lAIRDI GRAS:

121


.nzen of court circles, old men in spectacles,
.aigd Yankees in long-tailed coats. .
The streets were fn11 of people, young and
e ~ld, rich and poor, all seemed to enter with
spirit into the amusements of the day.
At the elegant rooms of the Delta Club,
composed of the " solid men " of the city, the
gathering was large and members were con-
tinually going and coming, all of them dis-
posed to make a holiday of the occasion. .
" Hillo, Plant, how are you old bo.y," said a
*gentleman just.coming in. .
" Why, Dan, \I thought you were out in
mnask" answered Mr. Plant. ..
" Not 1! the programme of to-night will be
*nough for me," ;he replied, "come let's have a
bottle of wine, gnd drink to the church, the
~state and the people."
As he said thiis in a jocular, totte, the wine
was produced and Mr. Plant joined him. Dan
ilock~ett, was one of the most social members
-f the favored circle, familiar with every one,
his familiarity was so well timed and genial
as to be acceptable to even the most reserved
and dignified. When. their glasses were filled
Mr. Rockett observed Mr. MacVain enter, and
-eizing him by the arm, drew him over to the
&amp;iar. " Come join us, Percy,~' he said, "we are
doing the honors to the day''"
Mr. MacVein joined them, and between him-
self and Mr. Plant, a forma bow of recogni,-
tion passed. ,
*" Isay, Percy, who was th at young lady I
sawv you speak to just now on Canal streetV'
inquired Dan.
" The young one was Miss Annie Macourty."
" No, no, the tall one, by jove she's a queen
din slender and beauty."
" That was Miss Mary MacDonald, Robert
McDonald's daughter," -replied Mr. MacVain,
-"she is to be married during the Easter holi-
-days to young Cummings-.
" Eh, Gad!I he's a lucky dog," said Dan, "for
she is a charming lady in appearance, and
will have plenty of rhino to boot. Here's to
,Phil's choice, and all happiness go with them."
All drank but Mr. Plant who stopped at* his
wine, held it up to look through it and again
tasted it, Mr. Rlockett turned away to speak
to another friend, when Mr. Plant said some
thing a low tone which he did not hear, but
which Mr. MacVain answered with, " That's a
.lie, sir, and you know it."

122

"'You're a                   " said Mr.
Plant, throwing the contents of his glass in
MacVain's face, which was immediately an-
swered by a blow from MacVain which felled
him to the floor. Other gentlemen at once in-
terrfered to prevent any further hostile de-
monstrations.
"Stand back, Percy-my God .gentlemen
this won't do," cried Mr. Rockett stepping be-
tween theip, "this place is sacred to festivity
and good fellow-ship and there must be no
fighting or quarrels amongst our members."
" You shall answer for thip," said Mr. Plant,
scowling at his antagonist.    .     '
," Wherever and 'whenever you please,"~ was
.the haughty reply-.
'lPl send a friend to your office in half-an-
hour," continued Mr. Plant-.
"Il be there to answer his silmmons," Mr.
MacVain, cooly replied'.
Friends again, interfered and both gentle-
men left the Club escorted by others .to see
that no further immediate trouble occurred.
The crowds on the streets increased all the.
time until as night came on the route through
which the' Mistic Krewe were expected. to '
pass was lined by thousands of people waiting
patiently for the grand maskers. Every bal-
conf, gallery and door step was occupiedd -to
its fullest capacity, the beauty, fashion,
wealth and refinement of the city were out in
thousands, .the -whole forming one of the
grandest sights ever seen in the Crescent City.
The weather was beautiful, a clear, calm
evening, followed a warm, fine day and this
encouraged even the staid old "stay at homes"
who seldom turned out to see such exhibitions, .
to come forth and witness the grand display.
The Krewe assembled in Layfayette Square
at nine o'clock in the evening with torchlights
and music, no one knowing whence they hiad
come. Here they were called upon by t e
Mayor of the city, who was immediately taken
prisoner and the procession moved off in the
following order:
Coms-the God of Festivity and titular pat-
ron of the Order, leads the procession followed
by
Mornus-God of Mirth, /
Janus-God of the Years, in a ear embel-
lished with emblem of his character, and at-
tended by the four seasons, Spring, Summer,
Autumn and Winter.

I

I

123

A TALE OF ANfIE BELLUM TIMES.

MARDI GRAS:

Flora- Goddess of 'Flowers, in a car
wreathed with flowers and drawn by butter-
flies attended by
SPonmona-,-Goddess of Fruit and
Vertumnus-God of Orchards, ,
Ceres-Goddess of Agriculture, in an oxen-
drawn cart followed by
Pan-God of Shepherds and the Fauns, in
gay revelry, around
Bacchus-God of.Conviviality, in his leopard-
drawn car and after him his intoxicated pre.-
ceptor, -
Silenus-God of Soakers, scarce able to re-
tain his seat on his donkey, and attended by
a group of Satyrs.
.Diana-Goddess of the Chase, in a hunting
Chariot, drawn 'by-stags, followed' by th~e
Muses, Calliope, Clio, Erato, Thalia, Melpome-
ne, Terpsichore, Euterpe,Polymnia and Urania,
Testa-Goddess of Fire, with her symbolic
pitar of flames, followed by ,
Harpocrates-God of Silence,
Hfygeia-Goddess of Health,'
Esculapius-God of Medicinse,
Fortune-with her horn of plenty, and
Plutus-God of Wealth, lead   ''
Destiny-on his winged dragon, attended by
Themis-Goddess of Justice, and -o
Nemesis- Goddess of Vengeance,
Satur-n-God of Time, and his scythe and
hour-glass, precedes           .  .
Cybele-Goddess of Earth, in a Chariot drawn
by lions. Next caine,-
Jupiter-God of Olympus, in a winged car,'
drawn by eagles. He was ruler of the Festi-
val, attended by his cup bearers, Hebe and
Ganymede, and his winged messenger Mer-
cury m ounted on Pegasus. Following Jupiter
Juno--Goddess of the Heavens, in her car
drawn by peacocks, together with her attend-
ants, Iris, the Rainbow, and Argus, the hun-
dred eyed. Other deities' then followed ; Atlasi
and Hercules, with their prodigious labors; -
Mars, God of War, in an armed chariot, t
Minerva, Goddess of Wisdom, in a car drawn
by owls, Vulcan, God of Fire, with his anvil '
and sledIge hammer, Venus, Goddess of Lovet
and Beauty with Cupid, in a car drawn by
swans, Hymeng God of Marriage.       ,    V
Arora-Goddess of Morning, in a car drawn
by a winged horse and attended by the Hours '
precedes,t

Phoebus Apollo-In the chariot of the sun-
The God of the Sun was followed by,
2Nrigt-In a sombre car drawn by a bat, with
the twin demi-gods Castor and Pollux, in her
train,
~Eolas-God of the Winds, rests over his
murky cave and is attended by his subjects
Boreas, God of the North Wind; Enrus, God
of the East. Wind ; Notns, God of the 8,outh
Wind, and Zephyrus, God of the West Wind;-
2t~pune and 4mnphitrite--God and Goddess of
the Sea, in a shell drawn by sea-horses, attend-
ed by the Tritons. After them,
Pluto and Proser-pine--God and Goddess of
the Infernal Regions, on a throne drawn byV
their faithful Clerbeius. The procession closed
with
Biecate and the Furies--
In this order the Kirewe marched through
the principal streets, 1'he crowds of people re-
ceiving them enthusiastically, and in numbers,
brilliancy of dress, beauty asid elegance form-
ing one grand ovation along the whole line of
their march. The procession revived the my-
thology of ancient days, presenting to lthe
spectators, in the most beautiful shape, the
Gods and Gopdlesses that- have for ce 're
formed a theme for the pen, the'pencil and the
chisel. The extraordinary character of the*
masks, the beauty and elegance of the dresses
and the splendor and novelty of the chariots,
with other accomlpaniments, formed a scene,
the like of which is seldom witnessed,
.After completing their route the Krewe pro-
ceeded to the Gaiety Theatre, whereacon
pany of invited guests that literally filled th
dress and upper circles, boxes and every avail-
able space, were assembled to witness the tab-
eau~x and join in the dance. Here the richness
and beauty of the ladies' dresses, the sparkling
o-f bright jewels and the light from yet more
parkling eyes, formed a scene that surpasses
n lovliness the power qf description..
At the appointed hour the curtain rose and
he tableaux by the Mistic Krewe begin.
~hey were four in number, preceded by a
eneral design representing the classic Pan-
heon,
.Tableau Fiirst-;represented the Minerva's
ictory over Neptune, before an assemblage of
he Gods, wherein -is unfolded the truth that
~isdom is :better than strength, and the olive
~reatha of peace and concord more beautiful
han the steed of the warrior.


A T A LE OF ANRTB E ELI TIES.  1- 12MADGA;

Ta bleas -Second-represented the flight of
time. This tableau/was sustained by' Castor,
Pollux, the Hours, Time and Destiny'.
Tableau Third-represented a Bacchanalian
revel. This tablean was sustained by Bacchus,
Silenus, Faunus, Fauns and Satyrs, Comus,
the Seasons, Flora and Momus. -
Tableau Fourth-represented Comus' Krewe
and procession round the stage:
"Come let us our rites begin,
S   'Tis only dayli'ht thatmakes sin', n
Which ilese un shades will ne'er report."'
The termination of the last tabilean was a
procession around th~e theatre, giving the spec-
tators a close view of those whose elegant
costumes and unique masks had so delighted
and amused them.
After that the merry dance commenced, the
varquette of the theatre having been floored
over to make a large ballroom.
At midnight the Mistic Krewe suddenly and
mysteriously disappeared, each deity returning
ito the realm from which it had been called.
In the gay and happy throng that filled theft
walls of the old theatre, the most select, re-I
fined and fashionable company that could bd
chosen in the Crescent City, Philip and Mary
were much admired and spoken of as among
the most charming couples gathered there.
This was in the palmy days of our Southern
metropolis,' when the people were in the full
tide of success, smrrotuided by wealth and
comfort, elegance and refinement, and they
were abcustomned to do well whatever they
undertook, especially was it so in matters per-
taining to the social circle. Their friends and
the strangers who went amongst them were
received with open hands and open doors, and
welcomed with a profuse and heart-felt hospi-
tality, not surpassed in any part of the world,
and this was done without ostentation or any
attempt at display. .
After the young folks had enjoyed them-
selves for an hour or two, Mr. McDonald mnt-
mated that it was time to return home. Mr.
Macourty gathered together his friends, and,
with Philip and Carl Amber as an additional
escort, they retired from the happy scene.
After going home with the folks, Carl and
Philip consulted together and concluded to re-
turn to the theatre and join in the festivities
for an hour or two longer.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

The company at the Gaieties Theatre ,was
yet in the enjoyment and excitement of the
dance, the brilliant assemblage and the soul-
enchamting music, when Philip rejoined the
merry throng and entered into the pleasures of
the hour. In the -interval between the sets,
when the night had nearly passed away, Mr.
MacVain came to him and inghtired if he was
engaged for the next dance, Philip was
struck with the unusual palor of his friend's
countenance and his look of firmness and de-
termination.
" I am not, Mr. MacVain," he replied, won-
dering at the other's manner.
"I want a friend ; will you go with me ?" in-
quired his friend.
" Certaitily, Mr. MacVain ; what is the mat-
'ter I" .
S"Without making any reply, Mr. MacVain
~Ied the way, and Philip followed to the roomu
(occupied by the former, nothing being said' by
either during their walk. The rooms were
lighted up and a fire burned in the grate, for
thie night had become chilly. On the table an
open case of duelling pistols was laying. ' '
" These look like they might do work," said
Philip, taking one of the pistols from the case,.
")They are intended for that," Mr. MacVain
quietly replied.  .,
"Sir' "
" The fact is, Philip,'" said Mr. MacVain, " I
have a meeting with Mr. Plant at six o'clock
this morning, at the 'Oaks, aud I want you to
be my second."
" A meeting ! What is it about V" exclaimed
Philip.      .--
" A quarrel at the Club yesterday," replied
Mr. MacVain. 'A He dared to sped~k insultingly
of Miss McDonald, words ensued,,he threw
wine on me and I knocked him down. He sent
his partner, Mr. Cotton, to me, and the meet-
ing was arranged." .
" Which must niot take place," said Philip,
"he insulted Miss McDonald, and, therefore,
the quarrel is mine. I will keep the appoint-
ment."
" That would never do, Philip."
"Yes, i1t is the correct way of settling this
matter."
"It will not do," replied Mr. MacVain firmly.
"Give up that idea; come, promise me to give
it up."

I

12.t

''Bt Mr. MacVain, I am the one most in'
terested."
"It is my quarrel and mine only, Philip.
Promise me, as a friend, that you will not in-

terfere or try to provoke another meeting with
this man.".
"Since you are so positive against it, I yield,"
reluctantly replied Philip-.
"Very well, I thank you for it," said Mr.'
.laeVain, "now you can act as my man. You
will find my will in that box," he contimuedl,
pointing to a fancy box standing on the "What
Not," i.n the corner, " and I desire, Philip, that
you will put my body in a vault util your can
build a tomb, and then remove it to that."
" Your body! pray don't .talk so," said
Philip.
" Yes ; I should like to lie beneath the old
sod, but then 'that cannot be, and, if it were
possible - what would be the satisfaction-
since there's no one there now that would re
umeinber or care for me; no, no, it's better here
and then there'll be sonme one to look after the
placece"
"My dear friend," said Philip,. with true
'feeling, " don't be, so down-hearted and sad
it will all come out right."
"Iam not afraid to die, Philip," said Mr-.
Ma cVan wth erghisee'        urigwt
the excitement of the time. I can m eet himh
as caln and composed as if I did not know it
wvou eom.ld be fatal to me.
'' It will not be fatal to you," replied Philip,
" you are too good a shot, you will have it all
your own way."
" Skill and nerve will avail nothing against
destiny," said Mr. MacVain-.        .
S"My dear sir, you are too down-dast," said
Philip, going towards the side-board, '" come,
take something to strengthen your nerves."
"I tell you, Philip, I am not nervous or
down-hearted," replid Mr. MacVain. "Feel
my pulse; would a coward's beat so regular as
that No-it is destiny-"
," I do not understand you," said Philip.
" Listen. Our family, like all the old
families of Ireland, is followed by the Ban-
shee, or death warning-"~ commenced Mr. Mac..
Vain.
"Do you believe in such superstitions P" in-
quired Philip, interrupting him.
"19elieve ! I know it," replied Mr. MacVain,
firmly. " Look at me. I am not ignorant, nor

foolish, nor yet superstitious, but I know what
I have seen! When the troubles occurred.
that drove me from Ireland, I left my mother
there and came here, where I was soon engaged
in business. Going into the yard of my store
one morning, I saw my mother there, saw her
as plain and looking as natural as I now' see
you.' I returned to my office and told my
cashier of what I had seen, and that I knew it
meant my mother's leath. In time I received
letters from home, informing me of the' 'sad
event, which occurred at the very moment that
the apparition had visited me."
"Very singular, -indeed," Philip 'remarked.
" Last night, or rather, night before last, for
it is now nearly morning," continued Mr.
MacVain, " as I sat here in my room, without
a thought of my mother or home, I looked up
from a reverie about you and Miss McDonald,
and standing there by the fire-place, was my
mother, just as I have seen her many and many
a time in the years gone by ; but there was a
look of sorrow and anguish on her face that
was painful to see. I knew then that I would
soon end mny earthly career, and, therefore, at
once drew up the will which you will find in
the box yonder.''
" This vision is susceptible of many, inter-
pretations," replied Philip, "as, for instance-''
" Enough, enough, I know what it meant
and that is sufficient," said Mr. MacVain.
Now we will have some coffee and prepare for
the grounds, for I must be there punctual to
the minute."
Not much was said during their morning
lunch for which Philip had no appetite,
having eaten during the night, and the new
position in which he found himself, made him
feel nervous and excitable. Not so with Mr.
MacVain ; having completed his directions to
hid young friend he was perfectly cool and col-
lected. Het took the refreshments with a relish
and then lighted a cigar, which he seemed to
enjoy, leaning back in his chair and convers-
ing with Philip on his approaching union with
Miss McDonald.
As they drove along the shell road in a cab
towards the meeting grounds, they came up
with another cab. in which were seated Mr
Plant and his friend Mr. Cotton. Side by side
they drove along, neither manifesting an in-
decent hast to lead the other, nor an inclina-
tion to lag behind.

125

31A RDI GR AS ;


A TALE OF ANTE )?ELLZJM ~                    127                   MARDI GRAS;

Arrived on the ground, Mr. Cotton and
Philip held a short consultation, measured off
thp ground, exainihed the weapons and placed
their men. A solemn stillness folloWed,
which was broken by Mr. Cotton, who came
forward, and, addressing Philip where Mr.
MacVain could hear him, said: ' Mr. Cum-
inings, your principal has grossly insulted my
friend, Mr. Plant, and, unless an apology is of-
fered, the matter must proceed in ~e usual
course.".
"I have no apology to offer," replied Mr*
MacVain, turning sharply on the speaker,
"your message is one based on gross false-
hood. Tell Mr. 1~Iant that I will allow this
matter to stop only on condition that he shall
at once make the proper retraction due me,
and that in a place as public as that in which
the insult was given."
"That settles the matter sir; we mi~y as
well proceed to business," said Mr. Cotton.
"I am waiting," was the cool reply.
It fell to Philip to call time, and, in a voice
tremulous with the excitement of the occasion,
he demanded: "Gentlemen, are you ready ~
To which both firmly replied, "Ready."
Then the command from Philip came, clear
and distinct:
"Fire! One, two, three 1"
At the word one the report of Mr. Plant's
shot was heard, followed by that of Mr. Mac-
Vain's at the next word of command, and the
smoke from both floated off on the clear mOrn-
jug as "three" was called.
The seconds hurried to their friends. Mr.
Plant said as Mr. Cotton came up: "Here,
let's get back to town; i've fixed him."
"Arc you hurt 1" inquired Mr. Cotton.
"No! He made a clean miss of it-but Idid
not," he replied.
~They returned to their cab and started. for
tl~e city without paying any attention to the
ot~er part of the field. As soon as the oem-
maud was finished, Mr. MacVain turned to
Pl~ilip, who hastened forward and inquired,
"Are you wounded, sir V'
~'Yes. I fear badly-we must hurry back,"
Mr. MacVain's repI~.
Without asking further questions, Philip ac-
co~npanied him to their cab and assisted his
friend in, who said to the driver: "flurry,
my good fellow, drive as fast as you can."
The driver, half frightened at what had oc-

128

curred, put the horse to his highest speed, and
never relaxed in his urging the animal until he
stopped in front of Mr. MacVain's lodgings.
The wounded man was too weak from loss of
blood to get out, but the driver assisted Philip
and together they carried him in and placed
him on a sofa.
"Go get a doctor at once," said Philip to
the driver, who started off immediately to
obey the order.
"Bring George Macourty here, Philip," said
Mr. MacVain in a week but anxious voice,
"tell him to come at once."
"Yes, sir, I'll go directly."
"Go now, Philip, at once-quick, quick !"
"IBut, sir, I must not leave you," replied
Philip.
"Do ~'t think of me; go immediately-half
an hour\ and you may be too late."
Philip called in the landlady of the house,
and, ste ping into the first cab he saw, told
the own r to drive away as fast as he could.
* Mr. M county was preparing to go to busi
ness, an was much surprised to see his confi-
dential man in such a state of excitement.
When Philip briefly related what; had taken
place, h made no delay in accompanying him
to the r sidenee of the wounded man. At the
door they met the doctOr, who answered their
inquiries very decidedly. '~He cannot live
through the day. The wound was mortal from
the start, and he may die at any minute."
When Mr. Macourty entered the room, Phil~-
remained in the hall, leaving the two alone to-
gether.
Speaking with difficulty, and often pausing
to gather strength, Mr. MacVain at once, fully
and without prevarication, told Mr Macourty
how he had stolen his little daughter sixteen
years before, that his object had been revenge,
that he had given her to Sarah Murray, to be
taken to New York, his intention being to re-
turn the child again to her parents. Thea fol-
lowed an account of Sarah's death without
leaving any trace of the child, and his own
long, exhausting and frt~itless search for her.
The surprise and horror of the good man at
learning that one whom he had cherished as a
friend had been his greatest enemy, wa~ very
great.
"I cannot expect you to forgive me," said
Mr. MacVain, in conclusion. "I hi~ve done you
an irreparable injury, and have nothing to say
in extenuation of my conduct, but I assure you

I

that that one act has been the bane and~ load.
stone of my whole life. Since it was commit.
ed, and I began to realize the terrible wrong
had done, there has never been a time
when I would not have willingly forfeited my
life to have redeemed the error and requited
the injury against you and yours."
"I am terribly disappointed in you, Percy,
for if there was one man that I loved and re
spected more than all others in my circle of
friends, it was you," Mr. Macourty replied,
"but may God forgive you-as I will try to
do; and now that you have made all the repa-
ration for this great wrong, that lies in your
power to make, you must see one of the Fa-
tAers and' try to make your peace with that
Judge before whom you will soon appear. -
"I'll think of it, George-I'll-" he looked
around, and his friend was gone.
Mr. Macourty soon returned with a priest,
one who, by long years of devotion, had en-
deared himself to the people of the parish, and
by ceaseless, untiring energy, had built up St.
Patrick's Church and placed it in the front
rank amongst the churches of the country.
Their conference was long, and when it was
over, the reverend Father came out, his coun-
tenance beaming with pleasure, for his task
had been well performed and his labors
crowned with success.
ChAPTER XXXVII.
Philip remained to attend to Mr. MacVain,
and do what he could to make his situation
comfortable. Very little conversation passed
between them; the wounded man seemed to
prefer communing with his own thoughts, and,
therefore, Philip avoided distracting him by
introducing subjects which, as most, were only
of passing interest, The city soon caught the
rumor ~f the duel, and it was repeated in a
hundred different ways. One report was that
a duel had been fought between Plant and
Ma~Vain, in which the latter was instantly
kifted, and, some words having passed between
the seconds, that Philip Cummings had been
mo tally wounded. Another insisted that
hot Plant and MacVain were killed on the
Ipo ; and yet another that both of the princi-
pals as well as their two friends, were mortal-
ly wounded. As to the cause of the meeting

the reports were equally varied and unreliable.
Some said it was about a c~rnsignment of cot--
ton, which Mr. MacVain claimed should have-
been sent to him, but that, as it had been re-
ceived by Mr. Plant's house, Mr. MacVain
claimed that they ought to reserve enough of
the proceeds to pay the balance due him from
the shipper. Others asserted that the quarrel
originated in a game of cards, and others that
it was an old affair recently renewed by acci-
dent.
Mr. Plant appeared at the Cl~rb at his usual
hour, and for the time forgot his haughty ~e--
serve and cold formality, to give a minute and
rather boastful account of thu meeting, and
many of his hearers felt a cold chill pass over
them as he told, with the utmost 8augfroicl, the
particulars of his aim, and gaveitashisopinion
that his antagonist could notlive for four and
twenty hours. His company was shunned and
there were few respectable men who would
have any social intercourse with him.
Mrs. Mucourty was much surprised at the
news brought by her husband, which opened
~new the grief of past years, and raised a hope
in her heart that her lost darling would-yet be~
found. Her husband immediately wrote to the
New York detectives, Williams and Bodkers,
and the search was once more renewed. Mr.
Macourty and his wife agreed, however, that
they would say nothing amongst their friencis
about Mr. MacVain's confession, as it would
damage his character and reputation without
being of any service to them, and, as Mr. Ma-
courty said, "he has been a good man in many
respects, and it becomes us, as Christians, to-
let him die in peace.'
The priest returned in the afternoon and re-
mained with the dying man, comforting him
with good counsel, aiding him in his prayers
and administering to him the last sacraments
of the Chuich. There the good man remained
until all was over, and ~he eyes of the ~gifted
and accomplished MacVain were forever closed
in death.
The long shadows were falling in tee city,
as the sun retired on his westward course, and
the bell of old St. Patrick's was pealing forth
-the sweet notes of t~O Angelus on that calm,
beautiful Ash Wednesday evening, when his
immortal spirit left the perishable tenement
of day, that had held it prisoner heie o~
earth.

127

31A RDI GRAS ;


The news of Mr. MacVain's death was soon
known in business circles, and many of his
old associates, the merchants and wealthy men
of the city, called to assist in laying him out
~snd preparing for the last sad attentions to
their friend.
At the funeral, on the following day, there
was a very large turnout; the old business men
who ~ad been connected with the deceased in
ainny commercial transactions, young men
who had been assisted and encouraged by him,
hundreds of poor people, who remembered,
with gratitude, the band that had ever been
extended for their relief, and never empty;
many from the ever green Isle, who esteemed
him as one who had always upbeld~the honor
and reputation of their loved laud, and was
ever proud of his nativity; men of science and
culturee, who had recognized in him an equal
and co-laborer; they were all there, viewing
with each other in doing honor to the dead.
The arrangements and ceremonies were all con-
ducted according to instructions he had given
before his death.
On the following day Mr. MacVain's will was
read in the pre ence of his confidential clerks,
Wayland, Thomas and Ballarie, and Philip, Mr.
Macourty and Mr. McDonald, who were called
in, in pursuance of a wish expressed by the
deceased, after the fatal duel.
The document commenced with the state-
ment that he owed no debts and had no rela-
tives living. There was a respectable list of
bequests for charitable purposes, and another
to faithful servants and some poor friends.
Then there was a suitable reward to Williams
and Bodkers, for their services, followed by a
legacy of teu thousand dollars to "Cecelia
Benson, formerly a match girl in New York
citv," the same to be advertised for a reason-
able length of. time, and, if the girl was not
then found, the amount was to be divided
between the parties of the two classes before
mentioned.
This surprised some of the bearers, who were
snot aware of Mr. MacVain's long search for
Cecelia an the reasons that prompted it.
Felix Le C asseaux was delighted with his
good fortune , and was now confirmed in the
belief that is wife was a great personage.
The will concluded with the following
clauses:
"I direct t at my commission business shall

128

jie immediately settled up, and a balance sheet
taken, so that the amount of capital invested
therein may be definitely ascertained.
"My business as a commission merchant, I
give and bequeath to Albert Wayland, William
Thomas and Paul Ballarie, who have been, for
~any years, my faithful clerks, and kind, true
friends. I desire that they shall form a co-
partnership and divide their profits equally
amongst themselves, and, in order to enable
them to continue the business with profit and
without embarrassment, Idirect that they shall
have the use and control of the capital now
invested in the business, for the terni of five
years, without interest or charges, at the end
of which time they shall pay over the said
amount to my executors hereinafter mentioned.
"I direct that, after paying the before men-
tioned amounts, all of .my property, real and
personal, bonds, stocks an4 mortgages, Of
whatsoever nature or description, shall be di-
vided into two equal portions. One of the said
undivided portions or halves of my estate I
give and bequeath to my young friend, Mr.
Philip Cummings, son of the late Poter Cum-
mings, Esq.
"And the remaining undivided portion or
half of my estate I give and bequeath to Miss
Mary McDonald, adopted daughter of my es-
teemed friend, Robt. McDonald, Esq., of this
city.
"For the faithful execution of my Inst ~viil
and testament, I appoint as my executors and
administrators, with full power to act, in all
matters, as may seem best in their judgment,
my friends, George Mac ourty and Robert Mc-
Donald, Esqrs., of this city.
"With a full belief in the justice and power
of Almighty God, and in humble reliance on
His mercy, this document is executed, by my
hand, in the city of New Orleans, this fifteenth
day of February, A. 1)., eighteen hundred and
fifty-eight.        PERCY MACVAIN."
Profound silence had been observed during
the reading of this document, with the provis-
ions of which every one seemed perfectly satis-
fied. Immediately steps were taken to carry
out the wishes of the deceased, and, in a few
days, the new sign of Wayland, Thom,~s &amp;
Ballarie, replaced the one that had so long
hung there, and had been for many years fa-
miliar and respected throughout a large per-
tion of the planting district of the S~uthern
country.
-4-----
CIIAPTEII xxxV~II.
The Easter holidays brought a season of
mirth and pleasure, which the people, released
from the vigils and fasts of Lent, enjoyed with
great zest. The mysteries of Holy Thursday,
the awful gloom of Good Friday, and the aol-

I

A ~PALE OF A~NTE BELJUM TIMES.

ilLlrL4 ThAt

emn ceremonies of Holy Saturday, increased
and brought to a close the sorrow and. mourn2
ing of the Church and her children; a feeling
of sadness and awe that had pervaded the
whole city, almost entirely suspending, not
only social pleasures, but conirnercial transac-
tions. The overhanging darkness of the close
of Lent gave additional interest and eclat to the
brightness and joy of Easter Sunday, when the
altars of the churches were decorated with all
the ornaments and with grand floral offerings,
rendered brilliant with the light of so many
candles, when canticles of praise to God aiid
love and joy for m~ risen Saviour, were chanted
forth by the choir and filled all hearts with
pleasing emotions.
The day appointed for the union of Philip
Cummings and Mary MoDona~d was now near
it hand, and all the friends of the couple were
busy with preparations and nervous with
anxiety about the coming event.
Mrs. Macourty claimed Philip as a son, and
~~as engaged in seeing that he was properly
equipped for the occasion and drilled in his
share of the ceremonies, which is sufficient
guarantee that he was well taken care of.
The bride and bride's maids were inflicted
with a course of visitiut~ and receiving, order-
ing and directing, dress makers and milliners,
and the fitting, changing, altering and imnprov-
ing, would have puzzled an uninitiated person
to follow, without turning their brain and
giving a lasting headache.
But the ladies did not mind it-in fact, they
rather liked it! It was frequently discovered
that everything was ruined! This was cut too I
short, that too long, and something else too
narrow or too wide! Of one article there was
too much and of another too little, and it was
quite a certain thing that Gircaux would not ~
get their white satin slippers done in time! C
But all these difficulties disappeared before 1
the energy and perseverance of the fair ladies t
and their accomplished assistants.
There was to be a mptial High M~iss at St. ~
Patrick's Church, at eight o'clock in the morn-
ing, and a gathering of friends at Mr. MoDon- 5
aid's in bhe evening, after which the young a
couple were to go to their now home, a hand-
some dwelling ~, with large grounds, in the ~
upper part of the city. The invitations to both ~
a
the church and the house were numerous. b
Philip knew everybody and everybody liked V

i2~i

him, and the bride's family was one of the
first in the city, so that the "oldf~milies," tho
solid folks and staid old rcspectalAes were nIl
on hand to honor the occasion. TLo church
was crowded, and everyone was arixious to
"see how they would look."
At last the exciting moment came, and the
procession moved up the center isle, Philip,
with Mrs. Macourty coming first, followed by
Mary, leaning on Mr. McDonald's arm; Annie
Macourty with Carl Amber, followed by Welly
Cheerful with Lewis Fontaine, Mrs. McDonald
and Mr. Macourty, followed by ten or fifteen
couples, old and young, particular friends of
the families.
The ceremonies were beautiful and impres-
sive, and at their close friends came forward
and congratulated the happy couple.
Philip then led his young bride dowa the
grand. isle, followed by the others of the bri-
dal party, and a large crowd of friends. After
again receiving good wishes and heart-felt
blessings from numerous friends at the en-
trance of the Church, the party entered the
carriages in waiting and drove away.
When the friends had returned to Mr. Mc-
Donald'sand were gathered in the parlor, Mrs.
McDonald embraced Philip and giving himii a
hearty kiss welcomed him as her son.
"You have my treasure, Philip," she said
' she has been always a good daughter which
[s the best of guarantees that she will make a
;ood wife, but you are welcome Philip with
ne, as a son."
"Thank you, my good, kind mother," ho re-
lied, "I shalt endeavor to hear well and truly
he name of s~n to you, and that will include
)eing a good husband to her."
"Philip---m son, you are already dear to us
~nd I am surd that coming years will only in-
rease the feeling,"~ said Mr. McDonald, warm-
y shaking the young man's hand, then turning
o his wife, sitid, "and now let us have some
breakfast for I am sure the young folks are
nngry-if they are not I am."
"Mary, I have always cherished Philip as a
ofi," said Mrs. Macourty, kissing the bride
nd holding her hand lovingly in her own,
~andI therefore claim yeu as a daughter, I
iced scarcely tell you that you will always be
welcome in our home, for since I first saw you,
~y heart has opened to you and I have almost
eon disposed to contest with my good friend
he title of mother, when speaking of you."
17


As this was said in an earnest, loving man-
ncr the friends around were deeply moved,
and Carl Amber, touching Mrs McDonald,
said, "Di4 you ever see such a striking like-
ness between strangers before ~"
"Our Mary in her bridal costume," said Mr.
McDonald to his wife, "looks just as Mrs. Ma-
courty did the day that we saw George and
her married. Don't it seem so to you I"
"Yes, it does, indeed," she replied.
Mary returned Mrs. Macourty's embrace
with much feeling and began to reply but sud-
denly paused, and looked steadily at he
friend.
"Your kindness to me, and this assurance
of your love fills my heart too full for words
to give an idea or the happiness I now feel, I
knoiv that time-"
"What Is It Mary-are you sick I" anxious-
ly inquired Mrs. Macourty, as Mary continued
silent.
"No, no, not at all," Mary replied, hastily,
"I feel very well."
Philip and the other friends came forward
when they heard Mrs. Macourty's question,
and Mary felt embarrassed at their anxious
faces, but gathering courage, she said smiling.
"It was nothing-I was-the cross you wear-
it is very handsome."
"I will give it to you, Mary," replied Mrs.
Macourty, taking off the ornamenii, and har~d-
ing it to her, 'rand in doing so, I give you a
gem which I prize above all others, for it was
worn by my little daughter when she was
5~o~~fl*~~
"Can it he-are my' hopes at last to be real-
Ized 1" exclaimed Mary.
Mary, what do mean I" Philip anxiously
inquired.
Mary took the cross and examined it closely,
while the varying expressions of her face,
showed the deep emotions that filled her heart
and were with difficulty subdued
"When my mother was dying in Brooklyn,"
she said to Philip, i~hile all present listened
with intense interest, "she whom you knew as
my mother, and she was always kind and lov-
ing to me, she called me to her and told me
that she was not my mother, this scene I re-
lated to our kind friends here when they un~
dertook the care of me, and assumed the posi-
'tions of mother and father, which they have
so kindly filled."

130)

"Yes, yes, I remember it all, Mary, dear,"
said Mr. McDonald.
"I knew not who my parents were," contin-
ued Mary, "for Mrs. Collins could tell me no
more, than that I had been stolen from my
home, and given to Sarah Murray, who died
when I was quite young, and the only evi-
dence that remained was this cross, bearing
~the initials of my mothers' maiden name-here
you see them C. M. C."
Friends stood mute with surprise at this
sudden discovery of one so long mourned as
lost, but when Mrs. Macourty threw her arms
around Mary's neck, and covered her face with
kisses, the ladies and children laughed and
cried in turns, while the gentlemen shook
hands with each other, and hastily wiped
away the tears that would come in spite of
manhood and an effort at serenity.
Mr. Macourty embraced his daughter, and
feelingly expressed the joy he felt at her dis-
covery.
"I knew there was something that drew me
to you," said Annie, embracing her sister af-
fectionately, "for when I first saw you I loved
you, there was a secret charm that bound my
heart that I could not understand. Then
when you were going to marry Philip, I
thought it might be that, for I always loved
him, "and she cast a merry, roguish look at
Philip, who was as proud and happy as it was
possible to be.
"Why did yen part with this precious me-
mento of your lost home I" inquired Mr. Ma-
courty, when they had all become more calm.
"You remember our kind friend Peter
Droll," she said to Philip, "it is to him that I
owe my education, he was to me~a kind and
indulgent friend, a brother or a father could
not have been more so."
"I know it well," replied Philip, "poor
Uncle Peter, he sleeps beneath the waves of
the Atlantic."
"Yes-bat we thought-everybody said,
that a trip to his home in Scotland would re-
store his broken health," she sadly replied, .s
she remembered how disappointed she had
been in that hope, "and ho said that when lie
got money enough he would start On the voy-
age. At last, one evening lie said that if he
had only fifty dollars more he would be able
to go at once. I had this cross, it was very
dear to me, but his life was at stake, he had

A TAliE OF BELLUM ANTE TiMES.

131           MARDI GRAS; A TALE OF ANTE BELL UAf TIMES.
never hesitated in acts of kindness towards and varying changes and events of thrilling
me, and I parted with it, hoping thatJ would interest to every American home.
be able to buy it again when we returned to Regarding duelling as one of the most bar-
New York, as we had planned to do." barons customs tolerated by civilized society,
'*We purchased it through an agent," said 't has always been a source of regret to Philip
Mrs. Macourty, "and tried in every way4o find that he did not take decided steps to prevent
out who had sold it at the shop where it wait the fatal meeting between MacVain and Plant.
found." The name of I'er2cy MacVain is often men-
"I sold it for sixty dollars, to a pawnbroker, tioned in commercial circles with respect and
a Mr. Emanuel," Mary continued, "and one esteem. The friends that he injured by the
day when we were in New York, I got the one great wrong of his life, have long since
money from my mother," she pointed to Mrs. forgiven him and cherish now the memory of
McDonald, "and went to the place-I remem- his many stirling qualities of head and heart.
her it well, to buy it back. The man himself Little hands have been taught to decQrate his
Was not in, und the clerk told me the cross had resting place with garlands of flowers and
not been there since he came into the store, wreaths of evergreens, and when All Saints
which he said was a long time." Day returns, with its beautiful custom of vis-
"Yes, we heard of that visit in our in- iting the houses of the dead, there are few
queries," said Mr. Macourty, "but we never graves ornamented with more elegance and
dreamed, of course, that you were the person." taste than that where rests the talented bus
It was after twelve o'clock before they wayward Percy MacVain.
thought of breakfast, the recognition had Sam Sellwell holds his own against the tron-
been so sudden, and there were so many things bles and cares ~f old fhtlier Time remarkably
to be said, and so many to say them, that the well, and is now a clerk ~n one of the leading
time flew away unheeded by any one present. dry goods emporiums of Canal etr~et in the
At last, however, onp of the servants ventured Crescent City. He met the "Saffron Knig~ht,"
to rewind Mr. McDonald that the table was sometimes known as yellow fever, the first
waiting, and they immediately repaired to the summer of ~ais residence there, and having
dining-room where an elegant repast was I come off victorious, is now firm in the belief
duly honored and appreciated. that the city of his adoption is the healthiest
In the evening the house was brilliantly I place in the Union, and destined to be the
lighted and filled with friends who eongratu- great commercial centre of the world, the
lated the young couple on their happy union, Toledo theory to the contrary notwithstand-
and many of them having heard of the events ing Mr. and Mrs. Philip Cummings have
of the morning, expressed their pleasure to been visited lightly by the troubles and cares
Mr8. Macofirty, that she had regained her lost of this life. Since their Nuptial mass, they
(laughter, after so many years of suspense and have visited the baptismal font in the old
sorrow. The party was one that was mu~h en church four times, and if the curious will there
joyed and often talked of afterwards, by those examine the records, th~y will find the
who were present. It was long past the "noon names recorded; Philip, Mary Cecelia, George
of night" before the company separated, and and Percy.
Philip and his young bride were duly escorted Mrs. Felix Le Crasseaux has ~in interesting
to, and installed in their~ new home.    family growing up to enliven Iher little cot-
tage, to which an addition has recently been
COxCLUSIO~.                made. She takes the world easy and is in-
clined to crnbonpoint. A few mornings since
Every story ha~ an end, and this is perhaps the was enjoying a gossip with the milkman
a good place to finish ours, else we might fol- standing in front of her door, en ekemise ci
low the fortunes of our friends to the present liloum volanle, and from the patois used we
time, a period of thirteen years; years that the should judge that "she speaks French like a
reader ~ieed nlt be told have been full of many native."


OLD ST. PATRICK,'S,
BY TIMV LINKIN WATER,

Thy bells are chiming
While I am rhyming, .
And the sound floats out from thy befry high,
And awakens feelings
0O' the days and dealings '
That have left us memories that can never die;
For with each vibration
Comes a fond creation -
To some one listening to thy pleasant sound,
And tender measures each fond heart treasures
Of scenes that passed on thy sacred ground.
'Tis of hours in childhood,
Ere care or blight could .
Within the bosom find home or rest,
Of fis comunion,
With infant purity sp sweet and blest,
And memory sadly
Recalls how gladly
The heart respondedito thy bell's loud call
On that bright mornifig when He, adorning.
The soul with virtues, showed His love to all.
'Tis of manhood's vigor
When war's stern rigor
Called son and sire to the fatal stri , -
And bugle hailing
Awoke sad wailing -
In hearts, though country was moe e dear than
life;
But with the grieving
For the loved ones leaving
There came a sound from thy turret gray
Which 'said, "Young soldier, the brave are
bolder,,
If first their homage to God they p ."
And in hour of battle,
When cannon's rattle,
And 'flash of muskets, and leaden shower,
And hollow death groan, .
Or lips last low npoan,
Gave fearful record of death's revel hour,
Some ring of saber,
In that hour's stern labor,
Amid the din, echoed like thy chimes,
And the dying listened, and his glazed eye
glistened,
For the sound brought comfort from the bygone
times.
N.ew Qrleaps, May 5, 1871.

And when homeward facing,
Mistakes erasing

Frm the step its firmness and hope from the
eye,
'The pulses qluickened
And the breath came thickened
As thy dim old tower loomed against the sky';
'Last friend at leaving,         '
Ere defeat made grieving,
And the first to welcome when the head bowed
1bw,
Like a mother's blessing came thy bells, caress-
ing
The heart from sadness and the soul from woe'.
'Tis of holy marriage,
When love responded to a-ffection's wish,
And the heart still flutters
SAs in thought it utters
Agaiu the promise of that hour of bliss;-
And though grief's teaching
And experience preaehing
Have oft since then overcast the way,
The min4d still treasures, mid long past pleas-
nyes,
The tene of triumph in thy bells that day.
'Tis death now coming,
Some life's term summing,
Laudate .Domninum the goal is won;
'The drooped head raiseth,
And the sad soul praiseth,
Though tears flow fast as thy bells are rung.
'Tis the body mortal,
.That 'neath thy portal
Is borne in love ei'e 'tis laid away;
The ehoir chanteth, " As the thirsty panteth
For water, long I for eternal day."
.Ah, joy and gladness,
.Or woe and sadness.
Each feeling shared in by mortal heart,
Comes with thy chiuing,
The feelings timing,
As those who listen have had their part;
And still thy ringing
Awekens singing,
Or sighs that softly the sad heart tells;
And so we'll cherish, 'till memory perish,
St. Pabricl's Church and St. Patrick's bells,

I

Street,

F. JOHNSON,                        DR. S. M. ANGELL,
UND E RTAKE R,               ooeoathic Physician,
205 and 207 Magazine streetN.12Jlistet
Is more fully prepared than ever to furnish everything
requisite for funerals.
Particular attention given to orders by letter qp  NEWV ORLEANS.
telegraph.
An ample assortment of METALLIC CASES always
on hand, including CRANE, BREED &amp; CO.'S new  t81ol  tosaosfWolaMCilrl
Oriental Caskets. Terms moderate.    )811{111  )1 {  888  [WOg  ]lCil'R

E. ilEATIL

MLARA.

J. P. HEATH,

HEATH, LARA &amp; HEATH
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN

w IL I~ I~

I~1L ]~ ~1

-
Pictures, Frames, Mouldings, Looking classes and Clocks,
No. 99Camp Street,
N. .B. All orders in our line will be fdled promptly, and at prices that 4efy.
competition.
Tnias-Strictly cashi on delivery,

$m Qm2-E-
WE-TEA.EE IE@U-

No. 84 Poydras


B R OTH E RS,

-.-DEALERS IN-

Household, Counting lRoom and Office
FURNITURE AND CHAIRS,

33 and 35 Royal Street,

N"EJ757   O3:4."..3A2Ts.

A N E XTE N SI VE ASS O RT ME N T

.-orF-

P4802  9E20M     NDgI~d,
21N ROSEWOOD, MAHOGANY, WALNUT AND OAK,.

IN VARIOUS WOODS AND

THEIR IMITATIONS.

Orders from the country will be promptly and satisfactorily
filled, ,and goods carefully packed to insure perfect safety in
transportation.                ..
Strangers visiting our' city are invited to call and examine our
extensive stock,

SEWING MACHINE SALES

F ORB

18 7 0.

&amp; K ~

in the year 1869 we sold, as our readers will re-
member, 86,781 Machines, but we sold last year
(1871) 127,833, ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY-
SEVEN THOUSAND EIGHT H1ENDIRED AND
THIRTIY-THREE MACHINES,) showing an ex-
cess beyond the sales of 1869 of
OVER FORTY THOUSAND,
and as shown by official returns
OVER FORTY-FOUR THOUSAND
Machines more than any other Company.

REA SONS WVHYf YO U LIHO ULD B UY

Singer's New Improved Family Sewing Machine
t i thesnlySEWNG MACHIEaan nxprencedoperson dcalearn troruse riy
used. It does perfect work long after Machines of other manufacturers have
become worthless. It sews finer and coarser goods, is quieter and quicker in its
movements, using less thread, and requires less exertion on the part of the opera-
tor than any other Sewing Machine. It is the only Sewing Machine a lady can
use without injury to her health, as the goods are carried directly forward and away
from the operator, and does not require the sitting in a stooped position, like
other Machines, to guide the work.
Compare the sewing done by it on leather, cloth, linen, Swiss muslin, or any
other goods, with (the sewing by other Machines on like material, and the verdict
will be that ,the "SINGER " is the only perfect SEWING MACHINE in
existence.
WM. E. COOPER &amp; CO.,
GENERAL SOUTHERN AGENTS,
Nos. 7 and 9 Camp street, New Orleans.

ESTABLISIZIED IN 1833.

Late C. C. Samnpson--JFormerly ~Sampson

S A MP S ON

The Singer still Triumphant!I


THE INHALATION. TREAT
-BY-
*SIS~FID2 A I~LLI~ eM~ A~
ASSISTED BY
165 - OAJ~TAL STI~EIBJT - ie~
9
~w ~
OFFICE HOURS~-From 8 A. 1W. to 4 P. lYI. and 6 to 7 P. 1W.
DR. J. H. MALONEY,         DR. JOHN G. ANGELL,
Dental Surgeon,
OFFICE HOURS--From 9 to 1, and from
No. 203 St. Andrew  ~tree,     2 to 4 o'clock, P. 1~vI.
Between Magazine and Constance,  Olll~a ailli R~sid~llc~---No. 162 Jihia Str~t,
N~AII CAMP,
~A~W   ~              NEW  OULEANS.

j

~To

Oil         MILLER,
13 flISTRICT
L
621             IN~E1 STFtEIThT
IIETWEEN JO8EI~IILNM AND JACKSON STREETS,

nflA.LflR 1N ~OE~I~IG~ .&amp;N~D STA.PI~E DRY" C400DS..

MARDI GRAS;

I

[4 of Zn4 Jellrnq

L

BY  I~IM LJNKINWATE~L

4-

NEW ORLEANS:
P. F. GOGARTY, PUI3LISHER, 151 CAMP STRJ~ET.
1871.


P. F. GOGAR~TY,
No. 151 Camnp -street.
In order to accommodate Catholics and tepblic
with a CATHOLIC CIRCULATING LIBIRARl/lie.
has opened books for the purpose of giving an oppor-
tnity to those wishing to become subscribers .to
regstr their names and address. The subscription
wilbe for one volume at a time, to be changed as
ofteR as required, fifty cents per, mouth, in advance.
r Pom persons not well known, a deposit of the value
of the books will be asked, to he refunded when hooks
are returned.

JOSEPH MILLER, JR.,

LOUIS GRUNEWALD,
No. 129 Canal street, New Orleans,
Importer and Wholesale and Retail dealer in
STlIl\TGS, E TC.
Sole agent for the celebrated Steinway, Itnabe&amp;
Co., Pleyel, Haine's PIANO FORTES.
Mason &amp; Hiamblin's Cabinet Organs.
For sale at factory prices, with foll guarantee.

HENRY C. ANDREWS,

Dry Goods Store, ines a ~arieti od

No. 607 Magazine street,

Opposite st. Elizabeth|Asylum.

New Orleans.
A Large Oval Frame for di1,
- AND -.
YOUR LIlKENESS INSERTED FOR NOTHING,
At Petty's New Gallery,
No. 151 CANAL STREET,

582 Magazine stt

NE W OR L EANS.
ZORN &amp; BREMER,
DERALERs IN
No We ANAL, SThtEET
Csole agents for the national steck nd Halict &amp;
wholesale depot of the favorite Pleyel Pianos.
Pianos tuned and repaired. Orders from the countr'
solicited. Satisfaction guaranteed.

E. Ii. VIR GIN,              T ..  G-  "t           l
DEALER IN           DerIldJlleinii a        Pto,
Landreth's Garden Seedy
&amp;#     RP&amp;BR,
No. 98 Gravier street,
Between Camp and Magazine streets~  N.5StChresret
NEW ORLEANS.             .  NEW   ORLEANS.
Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1871, by J. CunTris WALDO, in the office of the Librarian
(of Congress, at Washington.

-

-0

Cistern Maker,

NoZ  53 ~agazne Sreet

IZ
a,
0

00
Co
0
C')
0
0,
C
0,
.4
69

51 C.MPSTRET,  EW  OLEA~T-

I-.'
.4
0
'4
0
I-'

MRICAN IEE INM{CE CO1MN, No0, 10 CARONDELET STREET NEW ORLEA.
__JOHIND. ,SCOTT, Manager.        _____

IN PROSPERITY PREPARE .FOR ADVERSITY.

MagicnW4F I ntt25~c* COMPL'F
No. 10 Carondelet Street/New Ovleans.

Deposits, August, 18'/1, over 2$600,000.
-FIFTY CENTS AND UPWARDS RECEIVED.
Six per cent. Interest allowed. Compounded Semi-annually.
51 CAMP STREET.
TAXE CARE OF THE PENNIES, AND THE DOLLARS WILL TAKE CARE OF YOU
And Gte Dpos-                  Cos'a--
Valuablesi Received for Safe K~eeping at Less
than Fire Insurance Rates.
SAFE AGAINST FIRE AND BURGLARS.
Silver Plate, Bonds, Insurance Policies, Stock Certificates, and Valnables
and securities of all kinds taken on deposit.
Interest and Ooupons collected. Safes rented by the year. Prem ses shown
to visitors.

A lot of new Cisterns ot the best mate ial and workman-
ship kept constantly on hand, and for sale at prices to suit
the times.
All kinds of Cisterns made to order and repaired.
e Orders' promptly attended to.

NEW ORLEANS, LA.

0
'4
I
I
o
0
p
pso
0
0
A
0
00
00
0
0.
rB.
i~J
V
4
o
diii
p        4'
o
I-       4


~.1
F.
CA.TIIQLIO
Bookseller and Stationer,
Th1 CAMP STREET,
Opposite St. Patrick's Church, NEW ORLEANS,
KEEPS A GENEIIAL STOCK OF
ScI&amp;oo~ Books, Bibles, Prayer Books
Standard and Miscellaneous WorkR. All the latest
Catholic Publications, at publisher's prices. Beads,
Medals, Crucifixes, and Religions Pictures. General
Agent for all Catholic Newspa ers and Magazines.
Base Balls, Bats, Bases, Score Boots and Croquet Game.

-V.
8MtWG0 W8UtON~
Incorporated l845L~,
No. 187 CANAL STREET.
INTEREST PAID ON DEPOSITS.

G. P. MALONEY, D. D. S.,                             J. BOOTH,
(GRADUATE DENTIST)                    A'~.   6/8    Xa~qdzine      8t~ eel,
NEW ORLEA.NS, La.,
No. 1~6 Canal street,
JS NOW PREPARED TO INSERT
FOR &amp;4LE A$~D TO RENT.
/4o.'q $211 to $2~. OLD MACHINES BOUGHT, SOLD AND EXCHANGED.
No charge for extraction where other Teeth are to A complete assortment of Sewing Machines, Thread,.
he inserted.       .                         Needles and Findings of every description.
Particular attention paid to 1~epairing of Sewing
Teeth extracted without pain.               Machines.
W. A. MAUPA.Y,                             F. G. &amp; O.W. BARRIER,
- DEALER IN -
IMPORTERS OF
~f~zrd~i~ dud 4/Jield ~
FrellCll ~I1~ llll~hsli Dry. ~oo~s,
No. 70 Gravier street,
Between Magazine and Tehonpitoulas,         (TOURO BIJILI)INGS)
NE~ ORLEANS.                                J~1EW ~RLEANS.

FRY &amp; SMITH,
Copper and Iron Workers
131 and 133 Magazine street,
NEW ORLEANS.
I4allllfactIwors of ~t~alII ~ Trails,
OF THE NOSE APPROVED PATTERNS.
Sheet Iron and Copper work in all its branches, made
to order, and cheaper than any house West or South.

27 Commercial Place,
NEW ORLEANS.
Special attention given to the purchase and sale of
city and country property.
A large list of CHOICE PLANTATIONS, cotton
and sugar.
Also, about 50,000 &amp;LIUeS of located and unlocated
land in Texas.
For further particulars send for their Ilulletin, dis.
tributed free.


  
             
         
       
   
