
    ----CITATION----
        Warriner, Edward A. (1829-1908). Victor la Tourette .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8227
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Victor la Tourette 
            
                 VICTOR LA TOURETTE.   VICTOR LA -A- NOVEL.              - AUGUSTINE  - Though love repine:and reason chafe, , There tomes a voice without reply- 'Tis man's perdition to be safe, ' When for the truth he ought to die."  .  BOSTON:   1875' ROBERTS' 'R 'T      Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1875, by -ROBERTS BROTHERS  In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington,  'Cambridge! Press of Jat. Wilson &, Son.    C ONTENT So  CHAPTER   !A  II. BORD DUb LAC ....    ....    9 II, THE INDIAN VILLAGE. .. .    .  - 2 "I. TIlE CATHOLIC MSSIONARY   . .   37 IV. CATHOLICITY AND SCEPTICISM.     47  V. CATHOLIC AND ROMAN CATHOLIC VI. THiE iORNING SERVICE . .' .. .    84 VII. CATHOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM ....   93 VIII. EVENING SERVICE.  .  ....    132 IX. SSHAKING OFF:THE VIPER . .... ; 159- X. BETROTHED  ..... .     * *8 XI. CATHOLICITY AND CALVINISM .  .    94 XII. CATHOLICITY AND MATERIALI:SM     21, X1II. END OF TiHE VOYAGE. . .    ...229 XIV. GATESAJAL .A..    . *4237 XV. GATES BOLTED             249 XV1. "COMPEL THEM TO COME IN'.      2" XVII. BAPTISM AND CONF'IRMATION   2 '  . 299 XVIII. A WwDDIG  AND TWO STRANGE GUESTS  309 : XIX. FIVE YEARS IN THE MNISTRY ...     . . . XX. OLD AND 'NEW ACQUAINTANCES. ..  -  331 XXT. A REVIVAL OF RELIGION  .  . ": NXXIT. EAVESDROPPERS    ;  .  .* XXIII. TIHE CROSS ......      ..  '.65 XXNV. THE FLIGHT , ...   .... *.."    :7, I XXV. CONCLUSIONm 8..  .       .387:    VICTOR LA TOUIETTE.  CHAPTER' BORD DU LAC. IT seems so like a dream-my childhood-that,- when I take my pen to write this narratives I sit long, striving to separate in my mind real inci- dents -from what may be only impressions of my fancy. Some of the years are dim in memrnory; for I am an old man now, - threescore years and ten. But it is thought one of my age remembers best his childhood, - and doubtless this is true of most - persons, -for it is not often that that period fur- nishes fewer incidents that interest the mind than, the years that follow in a long life. But my life is an exception to most others. Its first'period was calm and peaceful, with no incidents which, how- ever pleasing to recall,-and who does not love  to dwell on those bright moments? impress me deeply, or that seem wowth narrating to others. Indeed, it seems very indistinct, like the glimpse of the blue sky from a dark wilderness, or the faint tinklings of a little rill in some densely wooded ravine; for I can contemplate it only through   10     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. scenes of trial and suffering that well-nigh effaced all previous impressions, the shadows of which, except when I ]oolk forward and upward to a bet- ter world, still darken my life. I wonder if it be truei what some believe, that we never do quite forget any incident once im- pressed on our memory, and that, when we noo longer "-see through a glass darkly," all our past experiences, all' that we have ever known or felt, or even dreamed, will appear as distinct to our minds as the images of the sunlight on our sense of vision. The aged Indian, the great prophet and physician of our tribe; whose name will appear by, and by, and who was for many years my teacher and guide, once said to me a little while before he died, "When we meet in the Happy Hunting Grounds, we shall be as we remember." Once before he also said, "How can we forget, since our spirits grow as we learn?" I have often since pondered these words, and many more he uttered in the same connection; and I think he imust have meant that, as the body grows from what it consumes, and, is moulded and developed from the influences to which it is subjected, so our spirit's are developed from what we learn and feel, and will appear, when we see eeach other "face to face," the perfect representationis of all they have ever experienced. Yet he could not have meant that all our bitter experiences are re- produced in the next life, if our life: here has been triumphant in faith., On the contrary, our labors rig                   ,   i 1LBORD DU LAC.              " and bereavements here ennoble us there. The one give us development and strength, and the other render doubly joyous the union of souls where there are, no more separations. Only the temptations to which we yield here willingly will haunt us there, and corrupt our lives. He seemed to'have no word corresponding to our word 'memory, but would always refer to the past as present. I cannot express his language exactly in English, but his injuries were always wounds in his spirit; the kindnesses and consolations he experienced were his healing medicines; what he had learned he had grown; what he had forgotten were his buried treasures. His good deeds he accounted savings-, and his sins and follies were good things wasted. Ah! if he were only living still, and his tradi- tions and his philosophy, which I cannot now fully recall, were mingled in the same crucible with what I have since learned, how many new ideas would be evolved! thow   many mysteries that darken my life and dwarf my emotions would be dispelled! But he is long since dead,--buried by me alone,  and is now sleeping under a wide- spreading oak, around whose gnarled roots, thrust out into the tide, the Kalamazoo ripples and mur- murs. There I often go to muse; and, as often as I go, the shadow seems to return upon the dial and renew my life. It is a grand old forest, wherei while I live, there shall be no sound of hammer nor chisel; for it seems to me a temple sacred to God. It is mine, too,-my temple. Since 'that   12   ,  VICTOR LA TOURETTE. long struggle was past in which T drifted as a leaf driven by the tempest, a waif from the wrecked vessel that bole the remnant of our tribe, I hlave spent here in its deep shadows my leisure days. In its solitudes I follow Christ's footsteps; here I feel his loneliness; lhere I commune with God; and here I conquer Satan. Whein I die, it shall be the heritage of my dear children,--my sister  Lou's Wiota and Neola,--but with this condi- tion, - that they guard it sacredly from the intru- sion of so-called civilized men. You have, seen the old French Bible,-the choicest souvenir and relic of my childhood. Its morocco binding is now almost colorless, but was once bright red. Having seen it every day all through my childhood, it is now I think the medium of my earliest recollection. Had it not been preserved, the picture so bright and so dear to my heart wouldl have- been less distinct, --our little family gathered at the hour of prayer. I see now my father's face- distinctly, as I knelt down with my sister Lou by the side of our mother, his hands resting on the book, and his face turned upward. He must have, then been near middle life, and I remember that the dark hair that clustered around his broad, high forehead, was streaked with gray;, and that his face was deeply furrowed; but he seems younger,--perhaps on account of the simplicity of his words. and a cer- tain freshness, kindliness, and vivacity of spirits that mingled their expression on his pale, hand- ,    BORD DU LAC.        13 somely chiselled face with that of the profound thought and indomitable purpose of his mind. There is enclosed within the leaves of the book the substance of the collect he always read, and which seems a paraphrase on the Lord's Prayer, adapted to the comprehension of all who listened, and to the circumstances of our life at the time. It runs as follows:- "O. God, thou art our Father, and we know thou carest for us, and wouldst that we should be happy, -and always to dwell with thee in heaven. May we always revere thy name, always love thee and be faithful and true to thee. May the purpose of thy Son our Saviour be our pur- pose. May we strive ever for the promotion of thy kingdom on earth, for the happiness of' others, for the improvement and progress of our race. May this be our highest aspiration, that thy love may grow in our hearts and thy kingdom in the world. Grant that we may know and do thy will, as it is known and, done by the blessed spirits in heaven, --seeking only in obedience to thee liberty and joy. Make us industrious, frugal, and temper- ate. Let us not want for food. Supply us with all things necessary to our comfort. And, O our Fa'ther, forgive us through thy Son, all we'have done amiss, for every neglect and every evil thought; and give us, too, forgivingr hearts, will- ing to bear eacl{ other's burdens. May we cherish no hatred nor malice, submitting patiently to every l! burden thou seest fit to lay upon us for the trial ;   ...',       ,  ' ,   "    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. of our faith. Keep us, we pray thee, from the influence and power of evil spirits. Suffer not Satan to have dominion over our souls or bodies. For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, ,for ever and ever. Amen."  This was followed by short petitions less formal, and suited to the special needs of each one of us, and expressed in so familiar language that he seemed talking with God. I hung my head with shame when he told of my occasional disobediences. He did not disguise his own weaknesses, confess- ing them with the simplicity of a child. I always felt that the past was forgiven when we arose from our knees, and, that we all knew what was expected of us in the day before us. The old Bible was sacredly preserved -by our Indian foster-parents, Ottokee and Waunee,after the death of our parents. They seemed to regard it as scarcely less precious thian our lives. No Christian, I am sure, familiar with its pages, as all Christians are, supposed to be, could have regarded it with more veneration than did our Indian mother. Every morning she knelt beside it, as she had. seen my father do, and now and then in her straXge orisons ,mingled words she could only have learned  from his lips. She called it the talk of the Great Spirit. The mark my father used was never moved from the last chapter le read. This was the- third of the First Epistle of St. John, the closing verse of which, and the last :words he read, is as follows:   BORD DU LAC.         15 ' And he that keepeth His commandments dwelleth in Him, and He in him. And hereby we know that He abideth in us by the Spirit which He hath given us."              .    ' On the fly-leaf is writt en in a feminine hand: "Presente Cd mon chzer fils, Victor La Tourette, par sa mere. Lyon, Mars 4, 1796."  There is also a brief family record at the close of the Old Testa- ment, which shows that my father was born at Lyons, France, March 4, 1774; and my mother, Louise Deschamps, at Detroit, Michigan, May 3, 1780. They were mairied at the latter place, July 5, 18300; and their children born in Massachusetts,-- Louise, Sept. 11, 1801, and Victor, Feb. 19, 1803. , Our cabill was built close by a little laIke of crys- tal water, enclosed, except on the west, by densely wooded hills. Three paths, well-worn centred -at our door, - one leading to the pebbly beach, where our canoe was anchored; one out into the dense forests to the soutl, whose branches almost touched our roof, and which is now my   Temple;"' and one to the little prairie at the vest, - a level tract, dotted with maples, and starred with wild blossoms. There gushed out from  the hill-side hnear 'by a little stream that mingled its music with the murmurs of the waves that beat on the shore, and of the winds that sighed through the dark woods. It flows there yet. And, when all else is still, it sounds, -as it trips softly over the pebbles in its path, like the patterings of the infant footsteps I used to hear.   16     vtICTOR LA TOURETTE. The cabin was built of logs, and was entered on the south by a single door. It contained four rooms, lighted each by a -w'indow. The room looli- ing to the east was our kitchen. The west end was divided into two smnall bed-rooms, one look- ing to the west, the other to the so uth. Between these and the kitchen was our parlor, looking to the north. Skins so nicely dressed as to be almost as transparent as glass were inserted in the windows at night, and in stormy weather. The outside door was of hewn plank, fastened together with withes, and swung on stout hinges of buckskin. It was never during my childhood barred and bolted, nor was the leathern string that served to iaise the latch ever drawn in; our only neighbors, the Indians, entering at pleasure. No palatial resi- dence, I am sure, could have been more comfort- able-or beautiful than our home. It was indeed a fairy castle. The roof was mossy, and the whole Iso covered with flowering vines as almost to con- ceal the rudeness of its material. Beds of wild flowers, carefully nurtured by my mother's hands, bordered the paths and clustered around the doors and beneath the windows. Though naturally wild, they seemed not to be frightened by our pres- ence, and grew as luxuriantly, and yielded to my mother's training with as mnuch docility, as those of a city garden. I do not know what has be- come- of them now; for the cool dells were full, and the green prairies covered with wild flowers of wonderful fragrance and beauty, that are not   - -   BORD DU LAC.         17 now seen in' Michigan. They seem to have fled away, like the wild deer, at the' approach of civ- 'J ilization, though they lingered long around our  cabin.  Our little parlor was most ,tastefully ornamented and furnished. A carpet of speckled fawn-skins covered the rude floor. One corner was occupied by a spare bed -for we did sometimes have guests - -on which rested coverlids of the choicest furs. In the opposite corner, and beside the wiidodw overlooking the lake, stood a table which, like the chairs, all of different patterns, was formed of willow sprouts and maple splints tastefully stained with bright hues. There were also pretty baskets, boxes, belts, and moccasins, and indeed almost every conceivable little article of-ornament and use; and all the handiwork of the Indians. The i  walls were hung with pictures, painted by Indian artists, some of them representing traditions of the tribe, either historic or religious. There were also two painted by my mother: one a sunset view of the landscape embracing the lake and cabin; the other a portrait of an Indian girl, a child of four years. She was represented as standing near a wigwam   in the shadow'of the forest, one little hand caressing the head of a speckled fawn that lay at her feet, and the other striving to adjust the white semicircular band that served to keep back the profusion of dark hair from her lovely face. She wore a green and russet tunic, fringed with olive, and gathered at the waist with a vermilion E      B         i-  1    18 !   VICTO  LAR TO UR ET TE. belt; and her limbs and feet were encased in olive leggins and moccasins. Beneath the picture was written, in my mother's hand, "Petite Neola." It seems strange that my memory is furnished with but one distinct likeness of my mother's face. I remember h1er sitting at the willow table by t;he window that overlooked the lake; but her face at that time is not wholly distinct in my mind, though I can see the scarlet blanket that in the chill of the evening she flung over her shoulders, and the brown locks that clustered in her neck as she bent over her work. But I gaze in vain into the shadowy mirror of the past for a likeness of her face, which, however dim, though it could not be to me more loving and tender, would yet be bright and happy. Alas! the picture I do behold is so distinct and' startling I can see no other. Can it be that the laughing, -girlish face clasped -in the golden locket I wear, with another, hidden nearest mny heart, was ever that of my mnother. Sometimes indeed, putting the two pictures of her that of memory and that my locket contains--side by side, and gazing upon them as far away, they seem to blend in one, -an angel face, so like, and yet unlike, them both; from which the tears are wiped away, the pale cheeks suffused in crimson tints, and the sad brown eyes full. of light and peace. I know that she is now an angel,- and is still near, as she always has been in the past, to guide my steps; but only by contrasting the, likeness of her girlish face with that of memory can I see her-   BiORD DU"LAdC.        19 not even in my dreams--other than as she ap- peared when the great grief of her life fell upon ,her. Dear mother, I know your grief is past, and clasped in fiather's Iarms you have long since ceased to weep; but I never can unclasp your arms from my neck, nor cease to feel the hot tears falling on my face. - \        I           -  '  , , ,j 1        * sL ,                     .   ,20     VICTOR LA TO URETTE. CHAPTER II. TQfl, IINDIAN VMLAGE. (ON the north bank of the Kalamazoo, less than a fourth of a mile from our cabin, was an Indian village of forty or fifty lodges. Should I pause to count them, I could give the exact number ;. for there was not one at which I was not a frequent visitor. But they are all gone now. , Not a vestige of one of them remains. Sometimes indeed, as I sit alone at nightfall under the old oak on the bank of the river, where I often sat at the same hour with Neola, and where she and her kinsfolk are buried, there seem to mingle with the music of the winds and waters the murmurs of the happy life that once was there. Is it all an illusion that causes me to start to my feet and gaze out into the dark, forests? Are those moving forms but flitting shadows? those twinkling lights but the sparklings of the fire-flies' wings? those pleasant murmurs but the hum   of insect life? It cannot be: the spirits of the dead are here. The sound of their footsteps is mingled with the rustling leaves, their voices with the rippling waters, and their forms half hidden in the flitting shadows. It is the light of this world, Kear said, that hides the light of heaven, though it is sometimes flashed   THE INDIAN   VLTAGE.      21 upon us faintly when our outward vision is ob- scured. You can see it in the eyes of the dying, and it often lingers long in the eyes of the dead. Thus is fulfilled in 'every true life the prophet's words,: "And it shall come to pass that at even- ing 'time it shall be light." And, as I have been instructed by my great teacher, this is not only true of the light, but also of all things else we here behold, - they hide within themselves the sub- stances of which they are but {shadows.  The world itself conceals another world. Our bodies hide our spirits; our outward life, another life. And our consciousness and memory of things visi- ble render us unconscious and forgetful of things invisible. The melodies of earth prevent our hear- ing the-n music of heaven. Every flower and tree and living creature takes its form and nature from things unseen, - things good and true, or sinful and false, And so, when wrapped ina my blanket, and reclining against the trunk of the old oak,-I sleep, and am all unconscious of outward things, Neola sits beside- We, her hand clasped in mine, and we talk to each!other as in days gone by. Our parents and friends, too, some of whom we have never met on earth, meet with us there. And as the shadows lengthen over my life, and as my eyes grow dim, my limbs feeble, and all my senses of outward things are more and more dulled by ,age, I feel less and less the sickening sense of. bereave- ment and loneliness that once constantly haunted my waking moments. When the fleshy ,fortress   22     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. in which my soul is inprisoned shall hlave become dust again, the radiant images I see only in dreams will be revealed as living realities in the lilght which is above the brightness of the sun. I Wish I could picture to your minds that Indian village. It was not laid out with regularity; that is, the wigwams were not arranged in rows, nor separated from each other by regular intervals. And yet I cannot conceive of any way that it could have been improved,  At first perhaps hastily ar- ranged, when, many years biefore, a remnant of the Lenni-Lenapes, or Original Men, driven away from their ancient huntingi-grounds flrther to the east and south by the fierce and barbarous Iro- quois of the north, had settled here, where, in the language of their tradition, "The white pebbles shone in the clear waters," it had come gradually to assume the aspect it presented at this time.' It occupied a little valley clasped in the wooded em- brace of a crescent-s'haped rid'ge that touched the river above, and below. Its general outline was that of a half circle about one half mile in d'ialoe- ter. Between the ridge and the river, which was also slightly curved to conforin somewhat to the line of llills, was a level tract covered with' ancient forest-trees, set so far apart that the grass growing  under their delicious shadows formed a smooth green turf. On the opposite side of the stream there was a small prairie covering the peninsula fornmed by the curve of the stream, and divided into as many gardens as there were xwigwVa'as in the. w; er  ilint   THE IND IA N - VLLAGE.     23   village, and which, owing to the crescent shape of the opposite shore, were each about equally distant   from' the wigwams to which they were attached. (  Thie wigwams were scattered along the gentle and irregular declivities of the hill-side, each being located near a spring of water, and entirely iso-  lated. and hidden  orom all the rest by the dense Hforests.  I I am here half inclined to dwell at some length !upon the character and culture of the Indians; thut, however false may be your impressions, , and& from what I have learned since from books, and from lnmy travels aimong the degraded tribes, that Istill survive, I amn convinced that there is an al- -m -nost universal misapprehension of the character J and condition of the primitive R'ed Men, I 'must Jnot be diverted froml my original purpose in this  ' narrative. I can only say that this remnant of "o Otriginal Men"," while of course wholly destitute of the literary, scientific, and religious culture of what is called' civilization, had yet a culture of their own more in harmony with nature cand God. Ex- actly whalt  as, anid had been, the condition of other tribes, I cannot say. Without doubt, they were cruel underprovocation, and perhaps generally so, tlrough habits engendered by the circumstancees of their ,life, resulting froml divisions and consequent hos- Itilities and strife,- for when first known to the whites they were mulch degenerated fromn what  I they had bee-n,-   yet I cannot thnk any were whlolly devoid of that ancient and natural culture [    24     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. that once distinguished their race, and which was still illustrated in our tribe. The fundamental idea of this culture was harmony with nature This, however, did not preclude development. On the contrary, their aspiration for improvement wa as great as that of civilized beings, only thej would not seek this by artifice, but by the strength- ening of their natural powers of Cody and mind Unnatural ease, self-indulgence, or Jany instrumen- talities that would obviate personal exertion, or prevent such exercise of the natural faculties aE was essential to their' discipline and culture, were  carefully avoided. Labor-saving machines, or any contrivances of art, whereby power is increased at the expense of strength, were regarded as debas- ing, unworthy of the noblest creature of God, and directly opposed to real progress, serving to pro- mote temporal rather than ultimate power. With them, indeed, knowledge was power; but it must be a knowledge acquired, not by that method of instruction in schools which we, call education, but by personal observation and exertion. Their theory was, therefore, directly opposed to that of civili- zation, so called. lThey did not believe so much in imparted knowledge as in acquired strength. What they sought to impart from generation to generation was natural power constantly strength- ened\; while civilization would impart. increased knowledge to successive generations whose natural powers are constantly enfeebled. This may, how- ever, account for the partial condition of ignorance   THE INDIAN  VILLAGE.     .25 and barbarism of most tribes, and their'aversion to improvement in civilized arts, when first known to Europeans; for having lost sight in their de- I generacy of ancient methods, and still clinging to original habits and ideas, they neither possessed I knowledge, nor were very much developed in natural ability. The fundamental idea still sur- vived, but without purpose or any effort at devel- opment. But our branch of the Lenni-Lenapes, or Origi- nial Men, was fast emerging from barbarismn, if I indeed they had ever so much, degenerated from  the ancient culture as other tribes. They were quite as intelligent as the whites. Their conver- I sation was varied and entertaining;  and, while characterized by a cerpain naturalness and sim- / plicity, seldom lacked vivacity and intelligence. Falsehood and theft were unknown; and, indeed,  so far as regards the practice of virtue and moral- -ity, they were superior to all other people I have known. They had   formerly been engaged in wars, and were still prepared to resist invasion; lbut since their settlement on the Kalamazoo, hav- ing been unmolested, they seemed to have lost all inclination for strife. Even the fierce Iroquois, in common with other tribes, had come to regard them with great respect, and as the type of the Ioriginal nobility of their race. Approaching the village on a pleasant summer afternoon by the path that led thereto from Bord' du Lac, a most charming scene was presented from    26 .,   VICTOR'LA TOURETTE. the brow of the hill overlooking the valley. The grove was full of animation. There were boys and girls at play, chasing each other from tree to tree; mothers sitting under the trees, watching their little ones frolicking on the green turf, - and I never have seen so merry, healthful children; men returned from the chase, or resting from their light labors, reclining under the cool shades, or mingling in the sports; while young men and maidens, in picturesque costumes, were prome- nading the bank of the river, whose, bright waters, gleaming here and there through the tree-tops, mingled their pleasant murmuirs with the laughter of the happy people. Beyond the stream, a forest unbroken-save where the, little prairie, frescoed 'i with gardens and starred with wild blossoms, nes- - tled'in its bosom like a little Eden- stretched to the horizon. Since I came oust into the great world, I have been in many countries and in almost every clime, and have visited places deemed the loveliest of earth; but I have iever seen a spot that appeared to me so beautiful as this,- certainly, never so [ virtuous and happy a people as those with whom I spent my earlier years. But as into the Eden in which was nursed the infancy of outir race crept the Serpent, so into-this Paradise of God crept the great enemy and destroyer. The valley, the forest, and the stream do indeed remain, but the joyous, innocent life that once was there has ceased its throbbings. The prairie and gardens are over-     THE INDIAN   VILLAGE.      27 grown with thorns and briers, and serpents hiss in the rank grass where little children laughed and frolicked. But, that my story may be intelligible, I must not close this chapter without first introducing some of the chief persons of the village, and who' are intimately associated with many of the events I am about to narrate. The first, is Kear, whom, were I to use a term current in Indian literature, I should designate as the medicine-man of the tribe. And it is not altogether inappropriate, if .we have a right appre- ciation of its meaning; for when not associated with superstition and quackery, and is expressive of real proficiency in the arts of healing, none can be more honorable. But even then it would fail to express the real character and acquirements of this great priest of nature, whom, though I have inet and conversed -with many of the most distin- guished men of my day in science and :religion, and have, myself become familiar with the ordinary details of a 'university education, I still regard as the greatest physician, philosopher, and moralist I have ever known. In the truest sense was he a prophet, a preacher of righteousness, an expositor of the " fellowship of the mystery which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God,"- the relation of the Creator to his creations, of the "I AM "to his "Word." I do not remember when I first saw   Kear, he was so frequent a visitor at our cabin before and    28     VICTOR LA  TOURETTE. after the death of my parents. The impressions I retain of him are scarcely less distinct than the consciousness of my own being; for I grew up, chiefly under his teachings, and most that I ac- count as my education, and as really valuable knowledge, aside from the mere matters of fact and experience I have acquired in the schools and in society, was the development of his thought. He professed to have derived many of his ideas from my father; but I have been told that my father used to say Kear was his teacher. Doubt- less each learned from the other what was lacking to the completion of a perfect faith; and that in the singular union of these two minds-the one a natural, the other a Christian, philosopher- was presented the true harmony of God's revelations in Nature and in the Bible.           , In appearance Kear was not singulari. HHis con- versation, habits, and dress presented no eccen- tricities or affectations.' And yet every thing that pertained-to his mind or person served to distin- guish him from  all other men I have ever met. More natural even than the artless people with whom he lived, his simplicity was not the result of habit, nor of any restraint resulting from   effort to conform to his' theories of life, but of that true humility which always distinguishes minds really great and philosophic, and which is itself the first requisite of improvement and nobility of character. Wiser than the wisest, there was in him none of that disagreeable conceit of wisdom condescension    of manner, or arrogance of opinion, that: so often distinguish the learned aristocracy of the world. On the contrary, he was a man among men, and a child amlong children ; meeting every one on terms of equality, and, without any apparent effort to conform to the thoughts and emotions of others, always congenial and hearty in his sympathies. It would have been a very easy thing for one so wise and gifted, had he resorted to magic arts, and had he chosen to be strange and reserved in his habits, to have exerted an absolute sway over the tribe, and made it wholly subservient to his own selfish interests. And this would not have been a matter of indifference, as you might think would be the case in so small a community; for men love power as much in small as in large communities;; and to be the head of a little tribe' like this, -com- pletely isolated from the rest of the world, is no less distinction than to be ruler of a great nation, its; honors being all that can engage the attention of its ambitious minds. Kear's authority was in- deed supreme in his office, but wholly exemplary. He never dictated, nor did he advise, except to restrain or inspire effort. Faithful to the tradi- tionary culture of his race, his theory was that no individual should be instructed beyond what was necessary to avoid error and to point out the path of improvement. All else was to be sought by personal effort. The humblest member of the tribe was as independent as he in will and choice; and yet so transcendent was his ability that, while    80     vICTOR LA'TOURETTE.' each was free to act for himself, none ever thought of persisting in what he did not approve. He had nothing to do with what may be termed the secu- lar affairs of the tribe. His office pertained to the culture of the soul and body, and combined much of what in civilized society pertains to the three learned professions. This rendered his title the most expressive and honorable that it is possible to bestow upon man, if not used in a restricted, tech- nical sense; for whoever dbserves to be called a medicine-man must be skilled in the knowledge and use of whatever promotes the health and de- velopment of both soul and body. In the world, while I have observed very much that is good, and indeed am persuaded that in most natures there is more good than bad, I have very ,rarely seen any thing that is genuine,-that is, unalloyed with error. Nearly every thing regarded as good, beautiful, or true, is more or less delusive. And this results in every case fromartifice, - from violation of nature. Religion, laws, and habits of life, are all, in a degree, unnatural. And yet only in so far as progress and development are in ac- cordance with  Nature can there be any lasting or substantial gain; - for otherwise disease ensues, which 4is always unnatural. What is called, for example, courteous and refined, is often alloyed with a sickly sentimentalism, and  too much en- cumbered with formality; being somewhat the result of training, and  more of association, and having in it much affectation, and little real charity.   I Some worldly-wise may smile or sneer, when I say, I that Kear was a gentleman in the truest sense.  There was in him no artifice, though every thing E he said or did was graceful, proper, and kind. I- Having thoroughly developed his natural good- ; ness, and restrained everyevil impulse, all his ways were refined, and at the same time natural. He 'felt what he expressed, and expressed what he felt. Some would perhaps urderstand- by natural- ness uncultured ideas and tastes; but it should rather denote those naturally cultured.  It is common sense, an ability to trace out results from causes, through a'proper apprehension of the. will and laws of God. In this sense, Kear was natural. While he had none of the learning of the schools, every noble faculty and emotion of his nature h-d been so grandly developed by study and discipline that the great masters of science, notwithstanding their technical knowledge derived from; text-books, of which he knew nothing, were compelled to acknowledge their inferiority when brought in contact with him. The professors in the university where I studied knew little of the relations of their several departments of knowledge to each other. Each derived his learning from the narrow limits of his text-book, and was as ignorant of other matters as if they had had no existence. Kear's text-book was Nature, in which" no truth is overlooked, and the relations of all truths to each other presented. Ask the botanist, for example, the relation of his science to astronomy, philology,   i 82    vICTOR LA TO URETTE. medicine, or theology,-and he could see little or no l connection betwe en them. They were as distinct inl his mind as if they had sprung from as many different sources rather than from one first cause. , He was familiar with most that had been written in his department, blut his knowledge wahi chiefly mechanical; and it had not once entered his mind that the relations of plants and parts of plants to each other were the Same as the relations of all other systems and parts of systems, of world to world, and of organ to organ. He could classify them by certain arbitrary formulas, and assign to each a meaningless name, but was not aware that each represented an idea or affection, and was a word derived from the natural and universal language ordained of God, eternal and unchangeable. He did indeed know that plants contained medicinal qualities, determined by experiment; but, not knowing the ideas they represented, he knew noth- ing of their relations to diseases. And finally, while he often spoke of the plans of God, in ex- plaining their anatomy and physiology, he did- not dream that they presented iving illustrations of the conditions of spirit life, and of all the Written revelations of God. All secular learning in fact, after having been instructed of Kear, I found to be superficial, having a letter, but no spirit; being objective, but not subjective ;and teaching Nature, blt not God. On the other hand, religion sought to teach God, and not Nature; wa mlore dogimatic than exemplary,   THE INDIAN   VILLAGE.       833 technical than  practical, formal than  spiritual, emotional than intellectual, narrow than catholic; and its promises limited more to the performance of certain rites and ceremonies than to the ob- servance of the laws of God. Philosophy, if indeed  in such diversity of views it could be said to have any character at all, was mostly a matter of specu- lation, grounded either upon mere fancies, or at the best upon partial truths; and, like religion, colored with inveterate prejudices and conceits. The -best systems, and .those which approached nearest the truth, were yet incomplete and'full of absurdities.. What was perhaps most remarkable in Kearn was that he had attained his knowledge simply by observation. He used no apparatus of any kind in his analyses; and hence his superiority was measured by the power he had acquired in the use of his faculties. By his senses he seemed able to scrutinize the nature of all material things, and determine their qualities. The second person in point of influence in the tribe was Ottokee, who was nominally the chief, -though inferior in ability and power to Kear. The two, however, were in, entire harmony in their re- lations to each other, the one being supreme in temporal, thhq other-in spiritual, matters. They represented the true relations of church and state, never intruding upon each other's offices,- inde. pendent, yet mutually dependent.   They were in fact a unit, the interests and purposes of each being   84-     vICTOR LA  TOURETTE.    : identical,- the good of all. Each held his position, not by the choice or caprice of the people, but by his merits. They werelthe heads of the tribe by ing delegated authority, but by, the general recog- nition of their ,tness and ability. At least it so seemed; for, there was no dictation nor arbitrary exercise of authority. They were recognized as leaders, because their fitness was manifested by their works. They were simply the most active and useful. IlThe tribe itself was a unit, - one body, self-acting, and obedient to its higher life. As in a perfect man there is harmony between the soul and body, so the temporal and spiritual interests of the tribe were blended together. It governed itself. Every member was in complete subjection, and yet there was almost perfect liberty. While, there was recognized authority vested in individuals, each had the same power to the extent of his ability ; and, till the influences of the whites began to be felt, there was, so far as I can remember, perfect harmony in the tribe. 'I have already alluded to Waunee. After the deathi of my parents, she and her husband, Ottokee, took lup their abode at our cabin, and became the most kind and loving foster-parents to sister Lou and me. Ottokee was absent from home much of the time, -gone sometimes weeks and even months before returning; but, when hle came backl, alwa, ys bringing presents to his children. He had an own son named Wiota, six vears older than Lou, and a daughter named Neola, two years younger than I ' . f   THE INDIAN YVILLAGE.       85 I; but he treated us all with equal tenderness. The thought never entered my mind that he loved his own better than his foster-children. With what glee we sprang forth to meet him when he returned from his long absences! After having first caressed the older ones, he would lift me and Neola in his strong arms and press our-faces to his. For hours we clung to him, telling him all the little things that had happened in his absence. Wiota was generally the hero of our tales. He had caught a wild fawn for Lou, made me a little canoe, and. a baby hammock for Neola;. had taken us to the village, rowed us out on the lake, climbed up to the eagle's nest, and driven away the big wolf that had tried to catch Neola's fawn. I think we were: perfectly happy, only when our father went away. Then we shed tears for a little while, but were soon laughing again. There was not a lake nor stream of the penin- sula that. was not known to Ottokee. He had wandered through every forest and over every prairie from the cold north to the sunny south, and was known to every, tribe, and even in the little settlements of French and English to :the. East. Except at home in his own family, he was grave and reticent, but always peaceful and kifnd. Contrasted with Kear, he was, a little taller and more muscular, but less graceful., The forehead of each was high, Kear's being the broader and bolder. The , two were the finest specimens of physical manhood I have ever beheld, excepting only Wiota. Neither '       i " I   86    YVICTOR LA TOURETTE. seemed ever sensible of fatigue, nor enfeebled by age. Returning from  their long journeys,-for they were sometimes absent together, - their forms were as erect and their steps as elastic as when they departed.   THE CATHOLIC MSSIONA RY.     37 CHAPTER III. THE CATHOLIC MSSIONARY. Y  OU naturally feel some curiosity in relation to my parents. Whence were they? And how came they in the wilderness? And, indeed, my thought in writing this narrative is to make known to any wlho may, sympathize with his purpose my father's history. And I had intended to relate it in the order in which tie events of his life came to my knowledge; for it was only after many years of research that I became entirely familiar with them. But it will be best understood, if I give them in the order in which they occurred. Though I was but eight years old when he died, yet from Nwhat I have since learned, and especially from his writings left with his parents- in France, and in his residence in Detroit, -the latter being a diary begun when he embarked for America, -I am able not only to sketch thq chief incidents of his history, but also to enter into his thoughts, emotions, and every-day life. As is true of all noble minds, he was' ambitious. From childhood he had aspired -to a high position in the ministry and in the church. But his ambi- tion was not selfish; for his chief aspiration seems ? ,      ,   88     VICTOR LA TOUREtTTE. to have been that he might become? an instrument in God's hacls for the promotion of Christ's kingdom on earth. His every-day prayer was: "Grant, O God, that I may know and do thy will; that I may exert a great and abiding influence in the world'for the advancement of thy kingdom. Give me the spirit and the purpose that were in thy Son, amy brother, my Saviour, and my God. May I never shrink from any needful sacrifice. May I never fail to expose error and assert the truth, to combat wrong and defend the right. And, when I come to die, grant, O God, I may 'know and feel that I have not lived in vain; that I have done what thou liast given me to do; that I have been truel'to my mission, and to the cause for which thy Son labored and died." I do not think he was ever suspected or accused of vanity, .Yet hle himself seemed to regard this as his chief infirmity, and to be constantly striving against it. Doubtless hep was ever desirous of pleas- ing others, and was elated when his efforts were applauded; but he sought to please only by kindly offices, and coveted applause only as evidence of the acceptance of the truth he taught. Sensi- tive,' obliging, and social in his nature, he natu- rally javoided enmity and unnecessary strife; was ever ready to yield to the wishes of others in mat- ters indifferent, and studied to be agreeable and entertaining in society. Still it may be that his disposition to. gratify others was the weak side of his character, causing his kindnesses to be bestowed  -1   THE CATHOLIC MSSONARY.       839 at times with too little discrimination, and render- - ing him too little jealous of his own interests or suspicious of the motives of others; but, if so, this is the only weakness Ii have been able to detect in his nature, except an over-sensitiveness of mind, which was particularly marked in him. I Some re- garded him as effeminate in body on account of the elegance of his figure, and neatness approaching fastidiousness in dress; but-his frame, though deli- ;cately moulded, was compact and closely knit, and capable of great activity and endurance. His brain was too large, and his nervous system too active for his vitality, causing after excessive labor and excitement long periods of depression and languor. Though unassuming and diffident and almost child-- ish in 'many of his ways, his spirit was bold and resolute, and his courage indomitable. An only  child, reared in affluence, with every comfort and every advantage for the culture of his mind, and which he had not! failed to improve, he lacked in no gentlemanly, social, or scholarly accomplish- , ment. Abart, too, from. what favorable circum- stances and -his own untiring industry had secured for him, he was also peculiarly gifted in his men- tal and emotional nature. Alike in the music of nature which we call poetry, and in the harmony of the laws of God which we call science or phi- losophy, he excelled, and could not'have failed to attain eminence, had he devoted his life to'their culture; but he sought a still higher excellence than these alone are able to, bestow, and to which t     40     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. they are but helpers, --that faith by which all things are possible; which developed in our nature is the tree of life, and in the world the goal of humanity. His parents were devout Romanists, though by no means bigoted or intolerant i Had they lived in these times, they would doubtless have been classed as Old Catholics. Yet neither was quite pleased when their only child decided to become a priest. Had they had other children, they would have been less reluctant, as in that case the' family name and estates would not become extinct. Still, as Victor from childhood had manifested an unusual interest in religion, and had early declared hisl pur- pose to enter the priesthood, they had become grad- ually reconciled to what had become inevitable. But as he grew in years, and as his peculiar genius and traits of character became more and more manifest, while proud of his abilities and attain- ments, they had frequent misgivings as to his ulti- mate success in his chosen profession. His frequent questionings of,certain tenets, and his bold declara- tions of opinion, frequently startled them, and filled their minds with anxiety and- alarm. They even feared lest his questionings should lead hiIml to reject Christianity and the Church, and to embrace the scepticism that had prevailed among the lead- ing spirits of the Revolution; so closely associated in some otherwise liberal minds are human dogmas with the religion of Christ,-y- so closely, indeed, that the rejection of the one seems necessarily the I          ,    THE CATHOLIC MS'SIONARY.      41 rejection of the other. Bat, while Victor's studies and reflections constantly impaired his faith in the theology of the schools in which he studied, his faith in Christ constantly strengthened. The Bible' became his chief text-book. To acquire the mind which was in Christ, and to know the purpose of his mission, were his chief study and discipline. Without this mind and this purpose, lhe deemed it impossible to be a true minister, or to preach the gospel'; for though one should be master, of all the, theology /of the schools, and even correct in every tenet of belief, he might yet utterly lack the. faith which is in Christ, having no sympathy with his spirit or conception of his purpose. Graduaily, the idea that the dogmas of the Church, whether true or false, so far, from being essential to salva-' tion, were really,the' cause of all -dissension and schism, and not only stumbling-blocks in the prog- ress of Christ's kingdom, but subversive of the Catholic faith, became a positive conviction in his mind. Whosoever, 'therefore, preached and en- fdrced them as essential to salvation or to unity with the Church, was striving against God, and virtually an enemy of Christ. How, then, could he become a tRomish priest? How could he pledge himself to conformity to 'Romish dogmas, even if he believed them to be true? How could--he lend himself to the support of a system, which, how- ever much it might harmonize with his own views in matters of opinion, yet denied liberty of thought, and compelled conformity to its teachings?   42     YICTOR LA TOURETTE. It is not likely, however, flhat he would" have entertained these scruples at the time, had he in fact believed all the teaclhings of Rome. It nlight not, in that case, have occurred to his mind at all, as we presume it has not to many who in fact,  though' unconsciously, countenance and support Sectarianism through their honest belief in the dogmas of their sect, that his belief, however con- scientiously entertained, Wvas not faith in Christ. The truth was that he had come to doubt many of the dogmas of Rome, while some were utterly rejected; and though long in reaching this con- viction, and still pursuing his studies in spite of it, he at last saw clearly that a dogmatic church could not be Catholic, and that it was impossible that he should ever become a priest of Rome. What; then', was to be done? Must he relinquish the purpose of his life because not permitted, through conscientious scruples, to enter the min- istry of a single denomination? Could he indeed, without violating--his firm convictions of duty, and proving untrue to the sacred cause-in which he had enlisted, refrain. from preaching at all? By no means. If he could not enter the: priesthood of Rome, he could yet become a minister in some truly Catholic denomination. But the same diffi- culty encountered him everywhere; for not one of all -the various denominations appeared truly Catholic. Some, indeed, seemed animated with a Catholic spirit, but all were more, or less fettered by dogmas, and most had been established to I:   THE CA THOLIC MSSIONARY.      1 48  represent certain unessential tenets of belief. All required subscription to certain articles of religion, if they represented, any distinct purpose at all, in none of which could be discerned the purpose of Christ,- the mustard-seed which alone is capable of development into the kingdom of God on earth. Besides, the idea that the power of ordination to the ministry was originally derived from the Apostles alone, and capable of transmissibn only by those regularly ordained, seems to have had some weight in his mind. Still, while he would have liked a regular ordination, he did not deem the matter of vital importance. He, indeed, be- lieved that the orders of the ministry were of divine appointment, but always utterly repudiated the idea that one could transmit to another any authority, unction, or power. Believing that the Church could be made Catholic only by reforma- tion, and not by revolution, for the same reason that he would have liked to become a priest of Rome, did he desire regular ordination. Found- ing new sects was repugnant to his mind. Christ had founded the Church, and it could not be founded anew. There was nothing required but to restore it to Catholicity. And so, as regarded- the matter of ordination, he believed the method first instituted the frue one, and that ,to which the Church would ultimately conform throughout the world, and that no change was necessary except to make the ministry Catholic in spirit. Through what was called Apostolic succession, the present   "'   '  ICTOR' LA TOURETTE. was linked with the beginning, and a system of continuity, .coherence, and development estcab- lished, and thee clain ought not rudely to be broken; or, if cast aside from necessity, should again be resumed when this has become possible. But his scruples were finally overcome. After long hesitation, be reached the conclusion that it was his duty to preach, whether ordained or not. In this way only could' Catholic ideas be instilled into the minds of men; and, when this had been accomplished, he did not doubt there would be unity in form as well as in spirit. He had no thought of founding a new sect, his purpose being to strive to impart the leaven of Catholicity to the religious thought of the world, whereby all denom- inations would ultimately so modify their tenets of belief as to exclude none from the visible Church who believe in Christ. His parents had hoped, while they witnessed, the despondency and strugglings of his mind, which continued for years, that lhe would finally overcome his scruples, anid take orders ini the Church. But they did not dream what was really passing in his mind. Whatever conclusion he might reach, the thought had not been suggested to their minds that it could become necessary in any event that he should be separated from them; ,and, when at last he announced his determination to become a missionary in a foreign land, they were filled with amazement and grief. But their expostulations and tears, while he wept with them,    THE CA THOLIC MSSZONARY.      45 could not change his purpose. God, he felt sure, had called Alhim to this work, and hle could not be disobedient to the- heavenly admonition. In France he could do nothing, owing to political complications and excitements, and where on account of the bitter experiences of irreligion, anarchy, and bloodshed, there was no spirit of inquiry, and still less a disposition to renew the struggle for religious liberty. France might be- come infidel, but she could not then be made     , Catholic. Though there were liberal Christian minds there, even these would choose rather that Romanism should remain than that religious strife should be renewed. IMoreover, it was evident that, if any change were effected, it would result in infidelity or in Protestantism, which was hardly :more tolerant. .'But he hoped better things for America, where nominally at least there was tQler- ation. It was, too, a newV country, rapidly grow- ing, and destined to be the seat of empire ; and he hoped if the germs of Catholic ideas were engrafted upon the popular mind that in time they might become the controlling elements of religious life. I pass over the painful experiences of his final departure. After pluch deliberation, it was finally arranged that, as soon as he had become perma- nently settled in America, his parents should join him there; and so after many embraces they finally suffered him to depart. How, kindly a good Providence, while unrelent- ing in his decrees, and sparing us no sacrifices           -   "    VICTOR LA TOURETTE.  necessary for our good and Jthe fulfilment of his purposes, soothes our sorrows, and mitigates the pains of every trial we are called to endure! He hides the future from our sight, and suffers us even to indulge in hopes that cannot be realized here, that we may not shrinlk back from the path of duty, and may realize hereafter, and in a better way, every aspiration of our souls. My grand-parents -were destined never to behold on earth again the face of their son; and yet they never regretted the mission he assumed. Though he died in ob- scurity in the wilderness, they felt in him a greater pride and satisfaction than they couldl have realized, had he attained the highest distinction possible in any other of the varied pursuits of life.   CATHOLICI7TY AND SCEPTICISM.      47 CHAPTER   IV. ,i                    CTCATHOLICITY AND SCEPTICISM. 1WFHATEVER     doubts, regrets, or hesitations Victor may have previously felt, these were all dispelled before the vessel upon which he had embarked touched the shore of the New World. The vastness and solitude of the ocean gave him grander and nobler impressions than he had' ever before experienced, and lifted his soul to sublimer contemplations. How trivial, he reflectd, appear our earthly intere ts, our trials, our sacrifices, our waitings, our separations, when we feel that there is really an eternity; that there is infinity of ex- tent, duration, and power. Sailing on day after day, with no other sail in sight, and gazing out upon the boundless, foaming wilderness of waters, he feltashamed of the doubts and questionings he had sometimes ,entertained. Surely the infinite is possible,- nay, it is all in all. In it is hidden the solution of all mysteries. We inquire, How can this or that be? But, once realizing the infinite, we can realize that all things are possible. Wherever we turn, it confronts us. Existence is made up of in- finite infinites. Indeed, what is there that is not in some way infinite? Our bodies perish, and yet   48     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. - their substance is imperishable. The essence of their being can have had no beginning, and can have no ending. Every thing is of God, not from no thing; and God is eternal. O God, an atom in thy immensity, let me, be one with thee.! When the first night of the voyage came on dark and tempestuous, his soul turned towards home and the dear ones left behind, with passionate yearnings. Leaning over the bulwarks of the ves- sel, his tears fell thick and fast. But at length other sympathies filled his breast. The sobbing sea, the moaning night-winds, and the gleamings, of the white waves through the darkness, awakened emotions new and strange. It was in such a night as this that his Saviour had appeared to' the dis- ciples, walking on the waters, emblems of life's troubled sea. Hours went by. Still gazing fixedly down into the restless, foaming billows, there seemed to appear strange, phantom, forms, -a yawning grave, a winding sheets and a pale image of death. Faces hideous and haggard were suddenly lifted up, and then hidden in the darkness. Eyes fiend- ish iand cruel glared for a moment upon him, Half suppressed sighs and-whisperings, as of unutterable anguish, mingled with the sad sobbings of the sea. Who would not shrinkl back and shudder at the thought of going downinto those deep, chill waters? Y,et this is life, -life stripped of its heavenly prom- ise. But now the spectre forms have vanished, and one of wondrous radiance and beauty appears, with smiling face and'outstretched hand. -It is   I    CATHOLICITY AXD SCEPTICISM.      49 a "He that liveth and was dead."  It is He that suffered that we might rejoice, that died that we might live. He has heard the cry of the mariner, "Save, Lord, or He perish," and has come with outstretched hand to rescue him. At his presence every fiendish form of doubt and anguish has fled away. Who 'can fear now to go down upon the billows, and go boldly forth to meet him? Who would hesitate to go boldly forth upon life's ocean, however dark and tempestuous it may seem, how- ever great its dangers and trials, its darkness and -gloom, when the hand of Him   who rules the tempests is stretched forth to save? Till past midnight, leaning over the bulwarks, he continued gazing down upon the troubled ocean. At last, turning away, and pacing the deck of the vessel, he felt stronger- and more cheerful. The sea had taught him a lesson he never forgot in all the trials and disappointments he afterwards was compelled to endure; and, with his brow bared to the 'cool breeze, he turned his face upward in the darkness, and consecrated himself anew to God. with a higher purpose and a firmersresolve. The ambition of his early days, when he dreamed of attaining a Ihigh- positio in ithe world of honor and- usefulness, was sanctified, and became a fixed pur- pose and desire to serve God alone. All desire, from'that moment, of distinction and influence in the world, should be to possess ithe mind of Christ, to become a true soldier of the cross, and to attain eminence and usefulness in his calling. Such, in-' *3        D           -  .    150  ,  VICTOR LA I TOURETTE. deed, had been his desire hitherto; but he bad never before felt such entire consecration to, his work. There had been in his mind still, after all his noble resolutions, an unconscious desire for fame, such as would, give him distinction among. men for talents and learning, and would gratify his friends; but now he resolved to bury every earthly ambition, and seek satisfaction only in the approval of his Divine Master. What matter to himself personally, 'if men should not regard him as an eloquent preacher, and crowded' assemblies should not: hang enraptured upon his utterances? What if he should encounter scorn and derision, 'or even persecution,? What if God should seem to thwart his purposes, even in his efforts to serve Christ, and render apparently futile his best en- deavors? - This would indeed be hard to bear, but he would yet wrestle with the angel till lie attained his blessing. "Howl and shriek, ye wild tempests, yet ye cannot stifle my voice! Ye irestless billows, your sobbings but fill my soul with exultation and joy. Symbol of eternity, O boundless Ocean, what mean thy -whisperings? Forgetfulness? Never! r I shall not be forgotten. Oblivion? It is false! I shall live on for ever."    " A hand was laid lightly on his shoulder, and he recognized the voice of the captain:- "Ho, monsieur, have you gone mad? Or are you merely rehearsing your first address in the New World?  If so, I fear you are a trifle too obscure for- the plain speech of the backwoods- man,?, -    ICATHOLICITY,AND SCEPTICISM.     51   . h This was spoken jestingly, but kindly. Captain Holt had understood that his passenger'was a I missionary bound for the frontier settlements of ' America; and, not being a religious man himself, he had at first, while treatinghhim with respect, felt a little more restraint than usual in his pres- ence, and had rather shunned him than otherwise. Naturally reserved and unsocial in his habits, though educated and intelligent, the many: pas- sengers he had carried in his packet ship across, the ocean had seldom indeed attracted his special attention; and, though always solicitous of their comfort an-d safety, he rarely engaged in con- versation, holding himself aloof, and, when visible, intent only upon his duties. But Victor's appear- ance, so different from  the affected, morbidly pious bearing of other missionaries who had from  t time to time been among his passengers, had attracted his attention and excited his curiosity. He questioned with himself 'how so young and stylish a man could be a missionary. Naturally, a plain, gruff, irreligious man would have viewed him with a feeling bordering on contempt; ;but Victor's air of refinement and dignity of bearing did not permit such an impression upon the cap- '4 tain's mind. His interest was still more excited when he saw the yoing man leaning over the bulwlarks till past mid ight, and especially when, approaching unobserved, heheard his strange so- liloquy and witnessed his strange gesticulations. Recove:ing fron a momentary embarrassment, Victor replied:-    52     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. "Pardon me: I was not aware of having a listener. Doubtless I seemed to-you out of my senses, for when alone I' am -wont to do and say queer things. You are so accustomed to the ocean, that : presume it does not impress you as it has me to-night." "Perhaps not. And yet, though I have spent most of any life upon it, every night like this ' impresses me deeply. Doubtless you feel lonely, and a little homesick. The feeling is quite nat- ural. My thoughts, too, often revert to my wife and children, now sleeping soundly, I daresay. When I get out of sight of land, I seem in a new world, and think of them, I imagine, much as I should if separated from them by death; that is, if one thinks at all after death. They seem so far away, in so different circumstances, that I can hardly realize that I am still in the, same world. On shore every thing is commonplace. The mind seems occupied with so trivial things as to be indifferent to the seriousness of life; but on the ocean this impression is quickly effaced. Its vast- ness and loneliness dispel the illusions of life on shore, and cause one to regard all the pursuits and interests of the world as trivial. While his love of home and friends is quickened, he feels less interest in himself or others, and comes to regard all human beings like the waves of the ocean, -- lifted up for a moment, and for a moment possess- ing a character and personal identity, and then sinking from sight, mingling their substance with '*f '  ,  ,       ^.. .   ' CATHOLICITY AND SCEPTICISM.      53 the universe, their individuality blotted out for ever. Others succeed them, differing but slightly t in form and character, but the same in substance, I and as quickly pass away."   Here the captain checked himself; but his tone  and manner betrayed the sceptic. \  "Do you not think," said Victor, "that there is in man an imperishable nature?" The captain hesitated. He had spoken more freely than he had intended. As is not'nnfrequent with diffident and reticent men, who, when they do speak freely, often speak from impulse and without reflection, he felt that he had been impru- dent; for he did not desire- to be regarded as an infidel, and felt drawn ,towards the young man by an undefined interest and sympathy. "Excuse my apparent rudeness, sir, irr having obtruded upon you, who, I understand, are a mis- sionary, what may seem irreligious views. But I must confess, in answer to your question, that I have very serious doubts on the subject." "Are not men who follow the sea usually sceptical?" "Perhaps they are. Certainly they are- irre- ligious." "And yet I have been told that sailors are very superstitious, believing in omens and super- natural appearances.  How can you account for this?"       .                . "I do not know, unless it be that they are as a class simple and uneducated, and that the loneli-    54     vCTOR LA TOURETTE. ; ness of the ocean and its dangers stimulate their imagination, and fill their minds with an undefined dread." / "This seems natural, but does not account for their irreligion." "I think, judging, from my own case, that the vastness of the ocean gives one such an impression of his own littleness that it is difficult to believe in his immortality. Besides, his study of the laws of Nature, of the winds and storms, and the absence of any of those circumstances which in, the com- plicated affairs of society appear so strange as to be attributed to an overruling Providence, lead one to attribute all events to, the operations of Nature rather than to a Supreme Being." "Then you think -for I infer, and indeed you so say, that you are explaining this matter from your own reflections and experiencee- that Nature and its laws may exist apart from the existence of a Supreme Being, and have no beginning, and consequently no Creator. Are they not then eternal?" "I think so. Nature may change in its varied forms, but pannot change in its essence. It can- hot be destroyed, neither could it have had any beginning; for otherwise it must have sprung from nothing, which is impossible and absurd." Surprised to find so much thought in one whom he had' at first regarded as a gruff sailor without refinement or education, Victor's interest was awakened, and he replied with earnestness:-   CATrHOLICITY AND SCEPTICISM.     55   "Ah! is it possible that you have been over ' this ground which I have myself trodden so often,  but with different conclusions? And now that we have got started, let us go on. I grant all you : have said, so far as regards the duration of Nature and'the supremacy of its laws; and yet I believe in God and in revelation."' "How can you, when the Bible teaches that the world was made from nothing?"        ; , "Wait,- let us not make statements carelessly. Men who pretend to interpret the Bible may teach that, but not the Bible itself." "You surprise me. Does not the Bible say that : God created the worlds from nothing?" "No. It says that he- created them by the power of his word. He said, Let there be light, and there was 'light."       '  6"Well, no matter., This is at least a fair infer- ence, that he created all things from nothing, if they sprung into existence merely at his bid- ding." "That, captain, we shall find to be the point of difference between us; for such would not be my inference. I would say all things are from God. His swill is supreme. It creates and destroys,- creates from himself, who is the substance of all things; and destroys, by returning that which has been created to its original elements. Yet nothing is created, in the sense of origination from nothing; nor is any thing destroyed, in the sense of annihi- lation."   56     VIC TOR LA TO URE TTE. ;, After a moment's pause, the captain replied:-- : I confess I had not gone into this subject as deeply as you seem to have done; but your views are unlike those of any ot er religious man I have ever met. Fancying I had studied the matter more closely than most who pretend to teach re- ligion, perhaps I have judged too hastily. But it may be you have only confused me in the use of terms. You say God is the substance of all things; which sounds much like what my old min- ister in Connecticut used to call Pantheism, and of which he always expressed a great horror.' You mean, I suppose, when you say that God is the substance of all things, that all substances com- bined make up what we call God." "No: God\is the existence, the ' I AM' of the universe; but it does not follow that all existences are therefore God. The air you breathe is in one sense your existence, but it is not you. The food you consume builds and nourishes your body, but your existence is not derived from it; for you exist independently of your body, though you dwell in it. Your body is not you; and yet it exists be- cause you exist. It is merely the outward and visible expression of an inward and invisible being we call the Spirit. So all things visible exist, but their existence is derived from an invisible source-. The universe exists because God exists within it; and if it were possible to suppose him to be stricken from existence, then the universe would instantly cease to be, just as all vegetation would perish, if    I    CATHOLICITY AND SCEPTICISM.     57. the earth were destroyed. But, on the other hand, though your body perish, you do not perish. Though all things visible should be dissipated, God would still exist. I say,. therefore, that while God' is the existence, the real being and substance of all things visible, yet visible substances are not God." "That will do for a theory; but how can you prove it?" replied the captain. "Is it not mere speculation, your idea that things visible exist from things invisible? If there is any thing invisible, why not suppose that it derives its existence from things visible? Or, better still, we may suppose ,all things eternal without beginning or ending. I am a plain blunt man; and you will excuse me when I say that common sense is more reliable than any philosophy, and common observation than any metaphysical speculations. I've knocked around in the world a good deal, and learned to take things as they appear; and I must say I think they are just about as they seesm. A tree grows up out of the ground, and I can't think its existence is invisi- ble. So human beings are produced and grow up in a natural way, deriving their life from the earth and air, and, though there is something in ihem we call the Spirit, I fancy the whole nature is material, and thast when the body returns to dust there is -: nothing left. Certainly, I cannot believe that what is called mind or spirit in man is his substance or i existence. I grant that there is much mystery connected with our being, but I do not believe that the body is dependent upon the mind, but that the   8     VICTOR -LA TOURETTE. mind exists from the body, and that when the latter dies the mind dies also." "And yet you believe in the eternal duration of matter?" ' Yes." "      .  '"The body then is not annihilated at death?" -"No." "The spirit, also, is not annihilated?" "Well, no,- that is, if there is really any such thing as spirit apart from matter."  "Well, how does it seem,-what does common sense teach? for you say you believe in- taking. things as they seem. The thinkilg part of our nature really exists, does it not, whether material or otherwise? And, if so, it cannot be destroyed." "No, not if material. I suppose it is the brain that thinks, and, if so, it could not be annihilated. But the brain may lose its power to think." "But the brain is flesh anrd blood?" "Yes." "And do you suppose flesh and blood think?" "I do."          , "All flesh and blood?" "I do not know about that. I only suppose the flesh and blood that compose the brain thinks." "And, by power to think, you understand the power to will, to plan, -to judge between right and wrong?" "Certainly." "And not only that, but that the brain is the emotional nature, that part which is capable of   a  . , I       , i  ,  ,    . 'i1' CATHOLICITY ANXD SCEPTICISM.       59 !loving, contracting friendships, seeking for gain, and appreciating what is good, beautiful, and true?" "I have never thought much about that;" yet it would so seem, if the brain is the, thinring part of man." "And yet the brain is material. It is composed of elements that abound everywhere. Now, if the matter within the limits of a human skull has such power, and matter is unlimited, -there must be material in the universe for an unlimited thinking power; and this material must have existed from eternity, and must endure for ever. In other words, matter being unlimited and eternal, and matter having the power to think, then the think- ing power is limitless and eternal." "I 'suppose so; but what are you trying to prove?"  "I am trying to show you that your own way of thinking must lead you to conclude that there may be a God of infinite duration, comprehension, and emotion,--the first point to be settled in our minds. You say that matter is eternal, and that there is a thinking power in matter: must, not   ' that thinking power, therefore, be also eternal?" The captain hesitated. A new light was dawn- ing upon his mind; but'it served only' as yet to confuse imM. He could not at first see distinctly what it revealed. Moreover, he was a little obsti- nate, and rather prided himself on his controversial skill, and so did not like to yield to Victor's re'-          n   without reflection he answered with considerable  vehemence:- ,Why, sir, I said the brain is the thinking power in man, but it does not follow that the uni- verse has a brain. If it did, there might be an eternal mind-; but there is no proof of this. You seem to me to beg the question." "If you reflect a moment,' replied Victor, " you will see that if matter in a certain condition. called the brain, has power of thought, then, so long as ' matter has existed, must there be a possibility of such combination of it as to produce thought. And further, if there is in the universe the mani- festation of [a plan and purpose, then is there posi- tive proof that the universe has' power to think, 'whetlher it can be said to have a brain or not. And finally, if the 'universe is unlimited and eter- nal, then is it certain that its thinking power is 1 also unlimited and eternal. There can be no soph- istry in this."  The captain paced the deck for a few mo- ments in silence. At last he stopped suddenly, and grasping Victor's hand said:-- "I am glad to have had this conversation iwith you, and I verily believe it will do me good. I might, however, protract the discussion, for I am not yet altogether persuaded of the existence of a God; -but it is getting late. To-morrow I invite you to dine with me in my private cabin, and we will continue the discussion."    CATHOLIC AND ROMAN     f   C. 'A61 CHAPTER V.* CATHOLIC AND ROMAN CATHtOLIC. THE next day was the Sabbath. The captain was a little late -at breakfast, but came in at last with a smiling face. The reserve that had before distinguished him, and which on the pre- vious evening had so seemed to'communicate it- self to the passengers that little progress had been made in mutual acquaintance,was gone; and the result was a lively conversation, in which all but one took part. The exception was a Romish priest, Father Gensonnc , who was going out also as a missionary to the frontier settlements of the New World. He was a man of middle age, of a full figure, and with a face heavy and sensual. But for his solemn reserve, dark dress, rosary, and cross, he might have been taken for a Paris butcher.) When the breakfast was over, the captailn: said: "As this is Sunday, it would probably be agreea- ble to the passengers, and possibly beneficial to - us rough sailors, should we have religious services in the cabin.  Fortunately, we have with us two priests, and I  leave the matter in their hands. They will, I hope, arrange the services between them.  I will only take the liberty of appoinin g   62    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. the hours,- 11 o'clock this morning, and 4 o'clock this; afternoon." Father Gensonne bowed sol- emnly; and then glancing around, with a look partly of surprise and partly of inquiry, seemed seeking for the other priest to whom the captain had alluded. There was a sly twinkle in the latter's eye, when, bowing towards Victor, he said, "Permit me to introduce Father La Tourette." All eyes were turned upon Victor with evident surprise. There had been nothing in his appear- ance that had betokened a priestly calling. Some who had caught the twinkle in the captain's eye half suspected a joke of some kind, but did not know how to interpret it. For a moment Victor was embarrassed. It was a new position, -one he had not yet prepared him- self for, -that of a professed teacher of religion. The feeling that he would be regarded as an impos- tor, and the consciousness that he had assumed his office without authority from what was regarded as the Church, for a moment disconcerted him. But soon recovering his- self-possession, and determin-  ing to meet the issue boldly, he said: "' The cap- tain is mistaken, --yet not altogether. I do aspire to become a teacher of the religion of Christ; but I am not a priest in the usual acceptation of the term, not having been ordained to that office by the temporal authoritiejs of the Church. But I do not think I lack authority to preach, and am going out indeed -as a missionary. I had no thought, however, of beginning my labors here, and so will   CATHOLIC AND ROMAN CA 7tHOLIC.     63' not intrude my opinions upon you. I certainly have no wish to embarrass our friend here,"- bowing to the priest,--"and must therefore de- cline to take any official part in the services." Victor's remarks caused a sensation. Many of the passengers were Romanists, bound for Canada, but most were nominally Protestants, and some indifferent or sceptical. All eyes were now turned upon the priest, who, as soon as he comprehended the situation, and without deigning to notice Vic- tor's remarks, r6se and announced that the " ser- vices of the Holy Catholic Church" might be expected at the hours designated. There was a momentary hush as the priest sat down. Then a coarse, burly man, evidently an English-American, with a pompous air and a loud voice, said, addressing Victor: "I s'pose yer Prot- erstunt, sir, hand I think we Proterstunts ort ter av sumthin' ter say 'bout ther meetin's. i Cap, t'a'nt fair fur one ter do all ther tarking. Fur one I'd like ter av er good rousin' pra'ar meetin'. Thar's some p'r'aps 'a'nt got religun yit. I don't mind leadin' in pra'ar myself cordin' as ther Sperit moves. Hit might be the means o' savin' (souls. I 'member when I first got religun. 'Twas when I was er boy, hand -- The speaker would doubtless have continued indefinitely in this strain, had not the captain in- terrupted him, evident signs of derision beginning to be manifest, and Father GQensonn6 rising up hastily, as if about to depart.     "     ICTOR LA ,TOURETTE. "Well, well, Mr. Garvey, I will give all a! chance: only don't turn the breakfast-table into a camp-meeting, - at least not till some of us have a chance to escape."  The captain spoke jocosely, though he felt vexed I at the way the matter had turned. 'If Patheir Gensonnd," he continued, " will consent to forego the four o'clock service, I will invite M. La Tou-- rette to hold a Protestant service at that hour." The priest with a great effort at dignity and con- descension, and with an ill-suppressed sneer, replied, "I can forego either or both services in deference to temporal authority; but I hope you will not ask me to assent to anly service not conducted by a regularly ordained priest." The captainWs face flushed with anger, and he was about to reply sharply, when Victor interrupted him:      - "I trust you will excuse me, captain. I am neither desirous of holding a service, nor prepared to do so. And, if I should, it would not be agree- :able, i fancy, to any present; for I am not a member of any Protestant or Romisji sect., I claim only to be a Catholic, and as such am independent of any sect or party. Permit me to be merely a- worshipper and a listener." At this Fahlher Gen sonn6 16sti all self-control. He sprang to ihis feet, his broad, sallow face and bald head all aglow with passion: "Do I under- stand you to say, sir, that you are a Catholic, and not a Roman Catholic? or do you call the Holy Ro-   CATHOLIC AND ROMAN CATHOLIC.      6 man Catholic Church a sect? It is an insult, sir, not only to me personally, but to the Church I repre- sent, as well as to the greater part of the persons present. A Catholic, and not a Roman Catholic? Pray, sir, what are you? Perhaps a Jew or Pagan -or- more likely an infidel " , Hold, sir," cried the captain, imperiously. "I will not permit "- "That is it," broke in Victor, impetuously,-- "call me an infidel, if you will. I will glory in that title, if only thereby I am accounted free of bigotry, intolerance, and superstition, and am not guilty of putting a stumbling-bloclr in my brother's way. In very truth, why not an infidel, if he be one who would even deny a God and reject the Bible, if otherwise he were compelled to believe in human dogmas, or to submit to the ecclesiastical tyranny that has cursed the world for fifteen centuries? 'You may call me an infidel, and I will glory in the title; for the friendship of the world is enmity with God. And I doubt that one can truly believe in God and in his Word, who is not a sceptic and a heretic in the vocabulary of the Church, so called. What am I then, did you say? Is it so inexplica- ble what one's faith can be, if neither Romanist, Protestant, Jew, nor Pagan?  Must the religion of Christ be the religion of Rome? Cannot I be a Christian, and yet discard any of your dogmas, nor refuse obedience to your Pope? There is surely no such' declaration in the Bible; and, if not there, on what authority but of men can it   "   'VICTOR LA TOURETTE.          I be' founded?  No, I am neither Ronmanist nor  Protestant, -of this I am at least sure; but I  i would be a Catholic,- for this I strive. This  word is the true symbol of the nature and purpose  of Christ's mission, and of the faith, effort, and  aspiration of every truly Christian life. It means  Faith, Patience, Hope, and Charity, -not the dog- i mas of Rom'e nor of Geneva. And now, sir, since -i you have questioned 'me, permit me to inquire of you,- On what grounds do you base your claim of Catholicity? for you understood me aright, -I ' do deny that a Romanist is or can be a Catholic. i Romanist and Catholic? Why, the terms are con-  tradictory, as different as darkness and light, as  selfishness and charity, as slavery and freedom. If one, you cannot be the other." So'unexpected and fiery a rejoinder astonished and excited all who were present, and for a mo- ment so much disconcerted the priest that he  shrunk from meeting Victor's steady gaze. But g he could not avoid answering, as all were waiting in breathless interest his reply. At length he  spoke, with a tone of deprecation and affected   humility:-  "It is a great trial to me to be dragged into a  controversy of this kind with unbelievers. While  I am ever .ready to defend our most holy and  Catholic Church, and am ready even to sacrifice  my, life, if need be, for it, it is most unpleasant to  discuss holy things, which few can understand, in j this manner. And we are specially enjoined to   CA THOLIC AND ROMAN -CATHOLIC.     67 avoid all public brawls and vain disputations. If this young man, however, is so ignorant of the Church as to seriously question its Catholicity, - a thing I never heard questioned before even by Protestants, - it is perhaps my duty to enlighten him. But it seems incredible that even he should not know that the Church of Rome has always' been called Catholic." "Suppose it has," said Victor, "would that, makle it exclusively the Catholic Church, or give it Catholicity at all? Other churches have also called themselves Catholic,- the English and Greek churches, and in fact nearly or quite all denomi-  nations of Christians.; but does that make them   ' Catholic? False prophets have also arisen calling themselves Christ, but this did not make them other than impostors."  Here Garvey broke in with a boisterous laugh. "This makes me think," said he, " 'ow er boy once asked 'is Par er question. Yer see 'is cow 'ad er carf one mornin' hand the youngster hafter lookin' at hit cum in, and sez ee, ':Par, 'ow many legs as ther carf got? ' Why,' sez!s Par, four. 'Wal,' sez ee, 'ef yer count 'is tail er leg, 'ow many 'as he?' ' Why, five.' ' No,' sez ee. ' Why hot?' 'Cause callin 'is tail er leg don't make hit one!' At this there was a burst of laughter, in which all joined except the priest. On the contrary, his face expressed the most righteous indignation; and in a tone of holy horror he exclaimed:--   68   . VICTOR LA TOURETTE.          "Just as I expected I I am ashamed to be  l caught in such a brawl." And then, addressing } Victor, he continued, "You see how you have brought reproach upon holy things."  "I see," said the captain, " the temporal author- ities must interfere to restore order. Mr. Garvey  will please not interrupt the discussion with any anecdotes.' It is a serious matter we are consid- 3 ering. Indeed, I begin to feel a great interest in l religion,-a subject that has little occupied my attention before. Seriously, I would like to know  , which is the true church, and what are my per-  sonal obligations to it; and I hope no person will interrupt the disputants." A tall gentlemanly-looking man of about fifty  years of age, and whose name was Deschamps, earnestly seconded the captain's request. He said he was a Frenchman by birth, and nominally a Romanist; and he would like to understand the meaning of Catholic. He hoped the Reverend Father would not decline the discussion, as it was an opportunity for the Church, and might result in much good. All waited respectfully for the priest to reply. I ! Some were really interested, some simply curious, but all were desirous that the discussion that had opened with so much spirit should go on. The priest saw that it could not be avoided without bringing himself into contempt. "I should be glad,"'said he, " to discuss this matter, if it can be done in a becoming and reverent spirit. Of course    CATHOLIC AND ROMAN CATHOLIC.      69  any sect can claim to be Catholic, but the claim is good only for the true Church. Do you believe there can be more than one Catholic Church?" "Certainly not," replied Victor, ' no more than there can be more, than one God, or one Christ." ",Well, then, what church do you think is Catholic?" "None whatever; that is, no visible organiza- tion in the world to-day." "Then you think there is no Catholic Church at all??? "I did not say that; but I do believe no visible, organized body of pr6fessed believers in Christ to-day can properly be called the Catholic Church. That is, no one church so called has exclusive 'right to that title, nor indeed any just claim to it whatever, each ]laving either perverted the-original structure, or being in its purpose and practical workings directly opposed to the freedom  and charity of the gospel." "Then you do not believe the Bible," said the priest, confidently, " for that teaches that the Church shall endure for ever. Did not Christ, ad- dressing, Peter, say, ' Upon this Rock will I build my Church, and the gates of lhell shall not prevail against it '?" -  ' "Well?" "Why, then the Church was built on Peter, and must still be in existence. - But you say that there is no Church now."    70,    . VICTOR LA, TOURETTE.         "Pardon me. I have not said there is no l Church. I said there was no visible organization s properly styled The Catholic Church. Yet the i Catholic Church is in its very nature indestruc- I tible, -not because built on Peter, or any other I apostle, but because built on Christ. It is in/fact  Christ, representing his mind, purpose, and spirit;? and so far as Christ is manifested in the world : to-day, so far is his Church represented,"   :! -The priest paused, as' if revolving in his mind some profound thought.  "Do you thjink," bhe  finally said, '1that there ever was a Catholic Church?"  "Certainly."  "When?"     E  ' "Now; always has been, -that is, in the sense I have just explained."'  "But I mean a distinct organization."  "Yes. i When Christ was on earth, he and his I little band of true disciples were the visible Church, I and they were Catholic."  "St. Peter you will admit was one of those true I disciples, I presume?e"  "Yes."   ,         , --     i, "And the chief apostle?"            "No. But I do not care to dispute it., It is in i fact of no consequence, and I will admit it to be true that I may not. embarrass your argument And i further, in order to save time, I will admit that he i had the keys, and that he founded the first Church I at ome, though there, is no satisfactory proof of   CATHOLIC AND ROMAN CA THOLIC.       7 1 that. Nay, 'I will admit, too, that your bishops are successors of St. Peter. What then?" "What then?  Why, if you admit so much,      , there can be no further dispute. -St. Peter, the chief apostle; the founder of the first Church at - Rome; all the bishops of Rome his successors,-)- whlzat more is necessary?"  ' ,Catholicity,"         ..  , Catholicity? Why, the fact that the Church of Rome has existed from the beginning, that it was founded by the chief apostle, and that its authority is derived directly from him, make it Catholic. If not, what could? Is there any further requisite?" "Yes: it needs reform." "Ah, I see: you mean it must become Prot- estant."  : "What do-you mean, then?" T"I mean that it has become so corrupt, so full of superstition, so tyrannical, so narrow, so utterly, unlike the original Church from which it sprung, ,that it must reform, change its character, become again as St. Peter established it, or it cannot be Catholic."  Oh!" cried the priest, half-rising, and assum- ing a tragic attitude, "I cannot listen to such blasphemy. It is really frightful! Alas that we should be compelled to listen to such slanders against our most Holy Catliolic Church!"' "Have you no further questions?" said Victor, with quiet dignity. Ity   , 72     VICTOR LA TOURETTE.  "No, oh no! no, oh no!" and the priest's eyes were turned in, and his hands clasped in pious  horror.  ,  "Well, then, will you please' answer me this I question. You say that the Church of Rome is Catholic because St. Peter founded it: could it -- not have been equally Catholic if any other apostle had founded it?"  "It could not have been in that case the head  of the Church."           - "Thatis., not answering my question. Would it have been Catholic, if any other apostle had founded it?" I "It would, not have been the Catholic Church." i "Then a Catholic Church and the Catholic  ; Church are two things?"            i "Not distinct in nature, but in authority. A , ? Catholic Church derives its catholicity from Rome : which is the head of the churches, and to which & all are subject."  '         ' "Then the churches Paul and John founded  could not 'have been Catholic, not having derived  their authority from Rome. Moreover, there could have been no Catholic Church till after Rome was  established, and even Christ and his disciples could , not have been Catholics."   ' 'This is mere casuistry," said the priest, en- deavoring to hide his confusion under a show of  impatienlce.      ,  "We wil leave that for others to decide," said Victor. b"I hope you will not decline answering a   CA THOLIC AN4D ROMAN CA THOLIC.    73 simple question. Is Christ or St. Peter the head of the Churchl?" "'St. Peter was the head of the apostles, and  therefore his Clhurch is the head of the churches." '4 Again you avoid myo question. Ypu admitted there could be but one Church. Now' s Christ or St. Peter the head of that Church?" "Christ is the rigi'nal head, but he delegated his authority to St. Peter." "Ah! now we have it,:-- Christ, not Peter, the original head and founder of the Church. From him, therefore, spring all authority and power. He: is the fountain. A church, therefore, is' not  Catholic because it comes fro Rom e, but because it domnes from heaven." "I tell you,"'exclaimed the priest, vehemently, ' that Christ delegated all authority and power to Peter." '               -  "Do you mean exclusive, unlimited, and discre- tionary power? "I do. To him were given the keys. Whatso-, ever he should6 bind or loose on earth was to be bound or loosed in heaven." "4 Then the other apostles had no power. More- over, St. Peter could create or destroy worlds,- any thing God could do, any thing he pleased. He could have sent the other apostles even to hell, had he ;chosen. Do you really tliink Paul would have reprimanded him so severely as he did at one time, if he had known that he had such power?"    -  - ' i   74      vzICTOR LA TOURETTE. "But you yourself admitted that Peter had the keys."  "Suppose I did: is that admitting that he had exclusive, unlimited, and discretionary power? The other apostles also had the keys, but that did not give to all, or either of them, the right to corrupt the Church,-to build a Babel in its stead. Tell me, ftor you have admitted that all author- i ity is derived from Christ,'- was, not Peter's duty clearly pointed out? was not his authority defined?? could he do more thatn Christ himself had done?'  was he not to build as Christ built, to teach as  Christ taught, to labor as Christ labored? were not [ his effort, purpose, and spirit to be the same as his Master's?"  "Do you mean to say that Peter built a Babel?"  i exclaimed the priest, again transported with 'pas- sion. "Dare you say that the chief apostle was   I fallible like other men? or that he could do any . thing wrong?"  "'I say'that Peter's authority and duties were  defined. I charge' him with no error; forlhe did not build the Romish Babel, - those who claim to have succeeded him  have built it. They have built up a monstrous superstition and despotism, blasphemously attributing the work to him, and  calling it the Catholic Church. Wlhere is your    authority from Peter for a single dogma you teach  and enforce? I "'You, sir, are the blasphemer in daring to call the Holy Catholic Church a Babel." \ ,        ,"   CA THOLIC AND ROMAN CATHOLIC.      75 "Let others judge; but tell me whence your authority is derived for yohur decrees, dogmas, and teachings?"         - ' I tell you our authority is from Peter, who was infallible." "Impossible! Granting that he had power to transmit his authority, yet he "could not transmit what he did not possess. His power was not ex- clusive, unlimited, or discretionary. He made no - pretence of exclusive authority, - that he could do what he pleased or as he pleased. His power and teachings were limited and defined by his Master. He received his instructions, and was not at liberty * to violate them. B ut Rome claims that she is 'infalli- ble, that her power:is unlimited, and that she can decree what she pleases. On what ar' these as- sumptions founded? 'Not on Peter's authority, For he had no such althority,; not on his teach- ings, for he taught nothing o4f the kind. Did he ;ay Rome was exclusively the Catholic Church,?  Did he say his successors could do as they pleased? Did he give you the exclusive right to baptize? )id he give you power to grant indulgences or orgiw sins? to admit souls to heaven, or exclude hemn at will? Did he make the conditions of sal- ration to depend on a belief in all or any of your logmas? Did he say you could keep me out of he Church and out of heaven becausel I do not elieve as you do in matters of doctrine?" The priest smiled contemptuously. "All this anting,' said he, "cannot change the fact that   76    ' VICTOR LA TOURETTE.         the Church is founded upon Peter, and the Gates of,- Hell cannot prevail against it." Victor was well-nigh discouraged. What he  sought was to develop by means of the discussion  the meaning of Catholicity; but the priest was too  weak and bigoted a disputant. He could not bring  him to the point at-'which he aimed. Still he had  hoped to make it clear to those who listened, not  only what Catholic implied, but also that Rome had  no just claim to that title. Changing; his tone, he  said:-  "On this, then, you rest-your claim for Catho-  icity?"                    X The priest nodded.  !"Whatever-Rome decrees, theni you thinlk must  be Catholic?        .  'It must be, because the Church itself is Cath- U oli0.. Having the power to make decrees, this necessarily imparts Catholicity to all its acts.". "hen Catholic is not a word that has an origi-  nal meaning of its own,-one fixed andunaltera-  ble, - but expresses whatever Romine is or decrees?"  "Yes: the word is associated with the Church of Rome only, and cannot be applied properly to any other. All other religions are heresies while hers   is Catholic."  "Then the word Catholic does not define the  Church, but the Church defines the word." '"I do not know what you mean," said the  priest, hesitating. . ( Well, you say that the meaning of Catholic is    CATHOLIC AND ROMAN CATHOLIC.     " determined by the Church. Therefore the char- acter of the Church cannot be determined by the word. That is to say, the word has no fixed mean- ing of its own, but its import varies as the Roman Church varies." " Again I say I do not know what you mean. I tell you othe Church of Rome is Catholic because founded by St. Peter. VWhatever pertains to her is Catholic, and whatever is Catholic pertains to her." "When you say Roman Catholic, 'do you mean Roman because Catholic, or Catholic because Ro- man?" " Both," said the priest, impatiently; " but this is mere casuistry." "Then the two words must have the same mean- ing; and, if so, why use them together ?" " No," said the priest, hurriedly, a new thought striking him, "not the same meaning. Catholic means universal. I should have explained: this before, had I thought it necessary. It is from the Greek; but I suppose you do not understand that language." " No matter," said Victor, beginning also to betray some impatience. " You have now defined Catholic to be general or universal. I will say nothing about the inconsistency of this definition with the former one you gave, in which you said Catholic meant Roman. Rome is a city, and oc- cupies but a small part of the earth's surface. Then, according to your definition, now, Roman I  78     VzICTOR LA TOURETTE. Catholic means local-universal; and Roman Catho- lic Church means local-universal Church. Is not- this a contradiction in terms,' as much as to say a narrow-broad Church?" "You, are merely trying to; split hairs with me. When we say Roman, we do not use the term in a geographical sense. We mean that Rome is the centre or head of the universal Church." "But Roman is an adjective, and is local in its signification; and, if it means any thing, must be descriptive of the Church. And did you not say that your Chutch was Catholic because Roman, - , and Roman because Catholic? It is, therefore, local because universal, and universal because local, a plain c ontradiction in terms." "I say Fe do not use Roman in a geographical sense." "No matter whether you do or not, the word can have no other meaning. But, in whatever sense you use it, it cannot be made to harmonize with Catholic; for plainly a Church cannot be Roman and Catholic too. Catholic means univer- psal, I will, radmit; but Rome means one city. It means broad; but Rome means narrow. It means pure; but Rome means corrupt. It means free- dom; but Rolme means despotism. It means com- prehensive of all knowledge and truth ; but Rome means ignorance and falsehood. It means perfect as Christ; but Rome means imperfect as sinful men. It means that universal charity, toleration, and long suffering that would that all men should be saved;   CATHOLIC AND ROMAN CATHOLIC.       9 but Rome means that all, shall be damned that do not subscribe to he'r dogmas. It means self-sacrifice; but Rome means self-aggrandize ment. It means universal in its proffer of salvation to all who believe in Christ, peifect in, its scope and comprehensive- ness, eternal in its duration, the kingdom of Christ, heaven itself. For an individual to be a Catholic, he must have that faith in Christ which swill incite him to follow his example and to do his work; for an organized body of men to constitute a Catholic Church, it must represent the far-reach- ing purpose, the aspiration and spirit that were in Christ. Rome surely is not such a Church. It is in no sense universal. It may have individuals more or less imbued with a Catholic spirit, and may have been founded by Peter, but it is anti-catlholic now through its degeneracy and corruption. It was not a Roman Churcel that Peter founded, but a Catholic Church :' now it is a Roman, but not a Catholic Church. Tell me by what authority you call the Universal Church Roman? Did Christ so designate it, or Peter, or any of the apostles?" "I tell you once more that it was so called on the authority of St, Peter. But I am only wasting my time and my breath in attempting to reason with an infidel, heretic, and fanatic." "Very well, call me any thing you please; but do not 'say St. Peter gave you authority to call Rome Catholic. ' He- was dead long before it was so called. But let it pass: facts avail nothing against this monstrous pretension, that, because St.' * A . . .   80    -VICTOR LA TOURETTE. Peter first established a church at Rome, all the bishops who came after him were licensed to do whatever they pleased. Now will you-tell me whether you think the Roman Church is pure and perfect or not?" "Yes."  "' And that it always has been?" Yes."  i "Then why ihas it constantly been adding new dogmas?" t "Onthe: authority of St. Peter." - "But I do not ask now on whose authority you do it. You might do any thing you pleased, how- ever wicked and cruel,-burn me, as you have thousands, at the stake, - and assume you were acting by authority of St. Peter. But I ask now your reason for introducing new dogmas. You say your Church has always been perfect; and, if so, why has it been necessary to change its belief inlany way? Why have you added any thing'to that which was already complete and perfect?" "  I tell you that all our creeds are promulgated on the authority of, St. Peter- - That is the reason, ; -and it is reason enough." 4' Catholic then does not mean now what it did in the time of Christ and his apostles. Then salvation was offered by faith, baptism, and good works,-and that was the Catholic gospel, --but now all are sent to hell who do not believe every dogma that Rome has promulgated. Her creeds and practices are now, you say, the Catholic gospel. ,   CA THOLIC AND ROMAN CATHOLIC.     81 Again I ask Vwhy, if Catholic has a meaning fixed and unalterable, has it been necessary to promul- gate new dogmas or to a cd any formulas ;of faith to those given us by Christ and the apostles?" "I have already answered your question," said the priest, doggedly; " and, if you have nothing new to suggest, we will close the discussion." "Not yet," said Victor, impetuously. "Do you say, On the authority of St. Peter-'? Has that noble apostle then spoken falsely? Having once said, when asked by many what they should do to be saved, ' Repent, and be baptized every one of you for the remission of sins,' does he now say we must believe in all the dogmas, and practise all the superstitions, of Rome? Shall we believe him false and fickle? Shall we not rather say that Rome is false and fickle, lwhen she/ shuts ard bolts the door that Christ flung wide open, that all who would might enter and be saved? Will you say, when Christ has offered salvation Ifreely to all who believe in him and follow him, that none shall enter heaven tut those you choose to admit?" The priest turned uneasily in his chair while  Victor was speaking, and when he had concluded rose tup hastily. "It is quite time this discussion had closed. There is no profit in it. I would as soon reason with the winds as with a half-crazed fanatic." And the priest began slowly to withdraw. Victor began an indignant response, but the captain laid his hand on his shoulder. "Let him go," said he, " you can do nothing with him." 4P       -F   g 82    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. "Very well,' said Victor, recovering himself. "But I think I will change my mind, and with'- vour permission will hold a service this afternoon." "Good," said ,the captain. "You won't lack an audience, I fancy." "Will hit be er pra'ar meetin'?" said Garvey. All laughed.          ;  "That is as M. La Toure te shall say." !  "You may pray, if you wish," said Victor. "Any ,person can speak' who wishes." "Yer wouldn't want er man that 'adn't got religun ter speak, would yer'?"  ," Certainly. Why not?" "Why, if er man han't got religun, ee han't er fit person ter zort sinners." "All are sinners," said Victor. "Wal, yes, - but, when one's 'art's changed, he's er new creetur. I've sarved the Lord now goin' on forty year, hand I han't 'ware of 'avln' done nothin' wrong fur the last ten year. I think one can be parfect, and ort to be parfect as his Master. ; I've 'ad many trials, - lost three, wives of my bosom; but- the 'Lord az comfor'ted me. I put hall my burdens 'pon 'im." By this time all had left but Victor, who was too polite to withdraw while Garvey was address- ing him, though the latter's remarks were exceed- ingly distasteful. He replied somewhat impatiently, -" You should strive' to bear vour burdens, not to put them on the Lord." Garvey, who had put his handkerchief to his *       }   CATHOLIC AND ROMAN CATHOLIC.      83 eyes at the close of his pathetic remarks, as if overcome with emotion, withdrew it instantly. He looked at Victor in blank amazement, while the tears seemed. congealing in his cold white eyes. But Victor did not care to enter into an explana- tion, and bowing politely withdrew. (I        " , ,  . . .    '  O  ;i . , J   84    'VICTOR LA TOURETTE. - CHAPTER VI. THE MORNING SERVICE. WHEN Victor came on deck, a small group of passengers gathered around him, offering their congratulations. And not the least cordial was M. Deschamps, who came forward with a' young lady leaning upon his, arm. "My daughter Louise, M. La Tourette," said he. "'She wishes to join me-in congratulations. You did not silence your Hantagonist, -I doubt whether that could be done,--but you drove him from the field." Victr had come on deck in no pleasant humor. He felt mortified at the result of his conflicrt with the priest. Young and enthusiastic, and thor- oughly honest and earnest in his convictions, he could not be satisfied with a nominal triumph of this kind. He had wished, and even had hoped, to persuade his antagonist of the truth. There *as no desire for personal triumph,- only for the vindication of the cause he advocated. He even dreamed, in the simplicity of his inexperience and the consciousness of his honesty of purpose, that all that was necessary in order to persuade others of his truth was simply to induce them to listen. It would seem even, fr6m reflections he had noted   THE "MORNING SERVICE.       85 down in his diary from  time to time, that he deemed this the chief obstacle to the promotion/of Catholic ideas. He thought men would believe, if only they could be induced to listen. His first conflict, however, had dispelled this illusion. He began to realize the nature of that prejudice which the Master he loved had encountered when he said, 't Because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not;," for, instead of convincing the priest, he had plainly made him his most bitter enemy. ,Be- sides, he felt vexed at himself for his lack of self- control in having allowed himself to become excited. What the effect upon others had been he could not tell, but his impression was that it was unfavorable,- But the 'cordial greeting he had met on deck, and especially that of M. Deschamps whom   he ,supposed to be a Romanist, quickly dispelled the cloud from his brow. "This s very kind in you," he said, his face flushing with the almost childish sensitiveness of his nature,-"' and especially in Mgdemoiselle,"' he added, lifting his hat. ' Is it Ipossible," he, continued jocosely, catching the mirthful but kindly expression in the young lady's bright brown eyes, " that such a heretic as I should receive congratulations from members of the Holy  Catholic Church?  I expected you to assist in burning me at the stake." Deschamps laughed heartily. "I thought so," said he, " when I saw the expression of your face as you came on deck. It was like that of one con-   86     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. demned to the stake. But do not count too much on impunity from persecution; for you may yet 'die a martyr to the cause you advocate. .I fancy Father Gensonn6 would enjoy seeing you burn. ,As for me, I rather strained my conscience when I said I was nominally a Romanist. I was bap- tized in the Romish Church in infancy, and my parents and wife were devout worshippers. But I am worse than a heretic, - a confirmed Bsceptic, in fact. Even Louise, who is the only friend that has not given me up, is sometimes troubled about Ime. So you see what my congratulations are worth. Indeed, I fancy all you have received were much like mine, --inspired by scepticism or indifference. Many rejoiced at the discomfiture of the priest, but none I think sympathized with your views." "Do not say that, papa," said Louise, blushing deeply. "Oh, I see you have one true sympathizer, M. La Tourette. So do not-be discouraged." "More than one," said Louise, recovering her self-possession. "Captain Holt is another, I think. And I shall be disappointed if what M. La Tourette said of infidels should not be found to apply to you; for, if you are a sceptic, it is because you cannot believe in the dogmas of the Church. But you do believe in Christ." "You see what a dutiful daughter I have. She does not give me up, though all others have. Even my poor wife"--and M. Deschamps' eyes   THE MORNING SER VICE.      87 filled with tears - " scarcely hoped for me, I think; and all her hope seemed to rest in my becoming a true disciple of Rome."  At this moment Captain Holt joined them. "'What have you done to our friend Garvey?" he said, addressing Victor in a humorous tone. i; You have given him very great offence in some 'way, He says you ha'n't got no religun, and that he can't hold a pra'ar meetin' with you." ,6 It was doubtless my fault,' said Victor. "He may be sincere, but I had so little patience vith  his religious cant I fear he will never forgive, me. "Well, you have made some friends," said the captain, " and can afford, to forego the friendship of Garvey. He is a liquor-dealer of Boston, and has crossed the ocean several times in my ship, and has always made trouble of some kind. He, is a disagreeable fellow in every way, and particu- larly by his impertinence and obtrusiveness in thrusting his religion offensively upon others." "I know him well," said, Deschamps, bitterly. "He has a trading-post at Detroit, where he spends most of his time, and where his family now reside. He has become rich by cheating the Indians and by selling-them bad liquors. But he is quite popular there, and a deacon in his Church." "Are you from Detroit?" said Victor, eagerly. "That is my destination, - at least I had thought of going there; and you can doubtless give me all X ' the information I may need." ,    88   -  VICTOR LA TOURETTE. "Well, you can tallk that over at; the dinner- table," interposed the captain. "You know you are to dine with me in. my cabin to-day, and I have invited M. Deschamps and his daughter to join us. I think I will need his support, if I have to contend with you in argument. Deschamps and I have known each other long, and have been pretty much of one mind.'" "Oh! you have conspired to lead me into ambus- cade, where I shall be overcome by superior numbers. If so, I shall have to call to my aid Mademoiselle," - turning playfully to Louise. "Will you not help-me?" [I give here word for word', only translating it into English, from Victor's diary a description of my mother, as she first impressed him. It is dated on the ocean, April 12, 1800. I seldom quote the diary literally, it is so candid. He could not have expected any one else would ever read it. Those who did not know him might from its perusal think him very weak at times, so childish is his simplicity. The description reads as follows:- (I like Louise Deschamps. Brown eyes:always be- token a tender and loving heart. How wonderfully cheerful and kindly hers are in expression! None but a true woman's soul could look throughf such eyes. I thought her tall at"first sight, but, as I stood beside her, her form seemed petite; and I am not tall. I think I never saw so lovable a woman, -am sure I never did; such symmetry,-graceful in every motion and utterance. She is entirely -without affectation,-so'      .     .  .    .   THE MORNING SE R VICE.       89 frank and natural. Let me think. It will be pleasant to recall. her likeness; but I shall see her' often, doubt- less, in Detroit. Not a brunette,-- no, she must hbe rather light than dark. Cheeks round, and just a little tinted,--how easily she blushes! How prettily the ruffled collar circled her white neck! About nineteen I guess, - well educated, surely. Her features are rather prominent, but regular. What full, sweet lips!I How nicely her buff kids fitted her slender hands! Dress and ornaments very plain; but costly and very tasteful. Not very vivacious, but mirthful, - certainly not dull. I never saw one more in earnest; just what I admire in woman most, - sympathy. I wonder how she liked my theology? A little shocked, perhaps, at some things I said; surely, she cannot be bigoted. Well, she knows the worst, --better so. But she said she sympathized with my views. Still, she doubtless thinks me inju- dicious. Am I beginning to falter already? I don't know but - no, never. But, doubtless, if I could con- tent myself to go into business with my father, I might be happy. How worthless I really am,-so impracti- call I fear I shall never be of any use. But I long for love and sympathy. If I only had a :confidential friend! but howlcan I ever ask a delicate woman to share my fortune? I have given- myself to God and human- ity! am I deceived?' Oh! if I could but satisfy these longings!"]  Their eyes met. A smile for a moment rested on Louise's face, as she caught the playful tone of Victor's words; but she replied seriously. Per- haps she thought his manner betokened too little  earnestness and strength of character. "If you    90     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. are a true disciple of Christ,"' she said softly, her eyes drooping, and a slight flush suffusing her face, "' you will not need help," - She plainly awould have said more, but faltered. "I mean- to be a true disciple," Victor replied, hurriedly; and then added in gentler tones,; " but I count on woman's sympathy, without which even Jesus had faltered in his mission." Again their eyes met. Deschamps was restless. "Come, the bell has struck for morning service. Shall we go and hear what Father Gensonn6 has to say?" "Yes," said Victor. "If we could not listen patiently to others, we should not be true Cath- olics."   -.  "'Then you still claim to be a Catholic? I thought you had renounced the Church." "I could not be a follower of Jesus and re- nounce the Church for which he ,died. It is Romanism I have renounced." M. Deschamps made no reply, but-a gleam of light was flashed in upon his soul.  In the cabin they found the services already begun. Some were engaging in them devoutly, but most evinced only curiosity or apathy. The rough sailors submitted as a matter of discipline. Captain Holt sat with folded arms and rigid coun- tenance, betraying no interest or emotion.    Victor and Louise joined in the devotions. Des- champs remained impassive throughout. Garvey came in in the midst of the service, and remained   THE MORNING SERVICE.        91 standing, while he stared around with his accus- tomed effrontery. The captainI, finally motioned him to a seat, when he turned on his heel with an expression of contempt and disgust, and strode noisily out of the room. At last the 'priest, having gone through the accustomed services, began to speak. Instantly all were intent to; listen. His contest with Victor at the breakfast-table excited an unwonted inter- est, as it was expected he would allude to it. He 'took his text from  St. Matthew's Gospel, xvi. 18; 19: "And I say unto thee, because thou art Peter; and upon this rock I Will build my Church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of, the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoeveir thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever then shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." It was the old story. Peter was the chief apos- tle. He was the Rock on which the Church was built. I Rome was built on that rock, and so Rome was the? Church. All separated from  her were heretics, and would perish. Then followed exhor- tations, to obedience. The promises and anathemas of the Church were set forth. And with some  excellent precepts-for cliarity, devotion, and self- discipline, he closed. lle impression was favor- able. Evidently a reaction had set in, since the morning discussion when the priest had been dis- comfited. He did really seem pious and sincere.   \   92     VICTOR LA. TOURETTE. Reform is never popular,- a real reform. Victor's spirit excited interest and applause, but even Des- champs at first regarded him as a young and over- zealous enthusiast. It seems foolish for any one ever to get excited for the truth's sake,- nay, even to be in earnest; for the most liberal and tolerant minds are such only through a disposition to com- promise with error, or to tolerate it. Of course I speak now as a worldling, -a Pontius Pilate, who was a liberal-minded man, -liberal from such an indifference to truth that he did not wish to con- tend either for or against it. Liberality, in this sense, is not Catholicity. The two are as different as passive toleration and active charity,- the one compromising the truth, the other suffering for it. The Romanists were themselves again, cold and self-satisfied.- The Protestants who had listened were silent, but not less assured and bigoted. All seemed to shun Victor, - so he thought; but this resulted probably from no hostility, only from the natural reserve that most feel in the presence of a sensitive man.' ,          ,   CATHOLICITY A ND UUNITARIANISM.    93 CHAPTER   VII. CATHOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM. O  N deck Victor was alone. Garvey was in a jolly humor. The passengers were convers- ing in groups. Captain Holt was busy with his duties, and his face looked stern and hard. M. Deschamps and his daughter were not visible. The sensitive nature of Victor was again de- pressed. His heart seemed to fail him in this his first trial, and he feared he had none of the stern qualities of the reformer. Not that he faltered,- he had no thought of turning back, -but a feel- ing of disappointment, a sickening sense of the blindness, fickleness, and listless apathy of men in relation to matters pertaining to the kingdom of heaven, a disgust at, the heartlessness and shal- lowness of the religion of the world, a natural and unsatisfied craving for the love and sympathy of noble minds, combined to depress his too deli- cate sensibilities: He imagined that all held him in contempt and derision. Garvey, he was sure, by his manner, was deriding bhim. And yet it is not likely that any one had regarded him in this light. His impressions, it is true, of how others felt towards him, were not wholly unfounded; but the *o ,**                     "    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. reserve that had suddenly come over him, causing him to shrink from contact with others, wouldl have served in itself to repel them. Instinctively most people shun a sensitive nature, however lnuch they may admire andc respect it. How unfortu- nate that those who can love most are yet least loved,- who crave com lanionship most are yet most shunned,-who ha te wrong and falsehood most, and sympathize most strongly with human- ity, are least fitted to battle with the world. How sensitive was Clhrist's nature! how he craved love and svmpatlhy! And who that has dared to con- front, as he did, the selfishness, blindness, and bigotry of the world, has not felt the agony of Gethsemane and the chill shadow of the cross? But perhaps I rather anticipate Victor's trials when I indulge iri these reflections. Now but "a momentary shadow was resting upon: him. The wonted respect which a young man of his position in society had ever enjoyed, he had not once thought} could be lost by the course he had marked out. i Indeed, I find some traces of an impression in hiS mind that, if men could not be'persuaded to emnbrace his'views, they would yet respect him 'the more for having advocated them. As yet he had not dreamed that his motives could be impugned, as yet he had known nothing of that awful con- sciousness that brought our Redeemer his great agony. This is not simply disappointment, -not the shuddering of a sensitive soul in contemplatibn of its own suffering, nor the touch of death's cold   CAT/IOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM.      95 fingers,-lbut that one has lived, and-hoped, and struggled for the good of men, and yet in vain, that is the refinement of human agony. Know- inig that he is right, and sustained by the conscious- ness that God is on his side, one however sensitive may suffer and yet glory in tribulations, hoping still for the triumph of the cause for which he has offered his life; but no soul, however heroic, can stand up, when he comes to realize at the last moment that his efforts have-been in vain, and that God has seemed to desert him. Such was Jesus' agony in the garden, such the expression of his supplications and bloody sweat,: and such the -final agony of many a martyred life. But if sensitive natures suffer most, yet a very little often suffices to give them courage again. We seek in vain to'findl why Paul should have thanked God and taken courage, when a few   of his countrymen came out to meet him,as he ap- proached Rome. They did nriot come to help him, but were moved perhaps by curiosity. E And yet so much did the lion-hearted apostle crave human sympathy that he interpreted this as a token of kindness, and rejoiced. Two little children, a boy and girl, frolicking on deck in-the bright sunshine, attracted his atten- tion. Now chasing each other past him, in great glee, the little girl fell. It did nlot hurt her; but, catching the expression of sympathy in Victor's face, a torrent of tears burst forth. Victor lifted her in his arms. "Where did it hurt her?"                 i   96     -VICTOR LA TOURETTE. " Right there," putting her hand on her flaxen curls . "Oh, I am so sorry.!" passing his hand over the spot. She was all right now. "Don't let Pierre catch me!" screanming with laughter, and climbing up on Victor's shoulder to get out of the reach of her brother. Victor was himself again. The ice was broken. Amie's mother was the first to approach. She : was pleased that the nice young man had taken so much notice of her children. In ten minutes he was on familiar terms with'everybody. Amie and Pierre became very familiar alnd confidential. NowV both were on his shoulders at once, now tempting him to a romp on deck. Captain Holt touched his arm. "Come," said he, "haveiyou forgotten your appointment? You know you are to dine with me, and M. Deschamps and daughter are waiting. -- Here, you little, sun- beam," stoloking Amie's curls, "let Mi. La Tou- rette go." Turniig away with the captain, he saw Louise ;talking with a tall, elegantly dressed young man. Their faces were turned away, and this led him to infer the young man to be older than he was. A, little distance apart was a group of four per- sons engaged in lively conversation'. One of these -was M. Deschamps. The others were 'an elderly man, a Frenchy looking and acting little woman of middle age, and a very pretty and stylish young lady. ,      .      .   CAITHOLICITY AND UNITARIAN IS.     97  It is too bad. I had hoped to have a pleasant tete-a-tete with you alone; but I wanted you to know Deschamps and his daughter, both having expressed some interest in you, and so I was in- duced to invite them. And, as it would probably, be agreeable to Louise to have other ladies present, I was betrayed into extending the invitation to the Winslows also. Have you been introduced?-" "Have they been on d'eck long?" said Victor, scarce heeding the question, and looking towards Louise.      , "Some time. I wondered why you did not join the Deschamps, but you were engaged with your pets. What do you think of Louise?---Isn't she b6autiful? And equally lovely in disposition, I should think. She is Deschamps' only child. But let .me introduce you to the Winslows. The father is a, professor in Harvard College in Massachusetts. He married a Frenchwoman, and the ladies are his wife and daughter. The young man talking with Louise is his son, - a fine fellow, - just grad- uated from West Point. The family, like the Deschamps, have been to France, partly on, a pleasure trip, and partly to look after some prop- erty that was lost sight of during the Revolution." For an instant Victor was chilled. The first pang of jealousy he had ever experienced, and the last, shot through his breast. But it was banished instantlv'.    ' Professor Winslow: received him politely, but gravely, and with a slight air of condescension. 5         G Ga   98     W VICTOR LA TOURETTE.  He was -a mdn a little above medium height, of  stiff angular frame, gray whiskers, thin, seedy hair,  deep-set blue eyes, high, intellectual forehead, and g heavy eyebrows. W    .  " Ah! this is the young man that ha;cl the dis-  clssion with the priest this morning?" He said  no imore, slowly released Vietor's hand after once shaking it, looked a little benignant from under his jutting eyebrows, but evidently had nothingD more to say. On the whole, however, Victor's impression was favorable, the professorial stiffness being- attributable to the habit and dignity of his calling.       '  Mrs. Winslow received him with great empresse- ment. She commenced .chatting vociferously:  was so glad to meet a Frenchman; had had such a dear friend once by the name of La, Tourette; the French were so much more social and enter- taining than the Americans. "Dear me! I should die of ennuNi, if I could not meet my own country- men now and then." iarie was a bright brunette, of petite figure, and great pertness and vivacity, at first a little shi and drooping whvlen Victor was introduced, but in five minutes coquetting with him gayly., Augustus Nas a fine specimen of young America, with a robust frame and a frank, manly countenance. His face ivas ruddy, features regu-  lar, and hair and eyes light. He received Victor with a jolly "How are you?"  "Come,'" said the captain, " the professor and I  will lead the way."    CATHOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM.     99      -M. Deschamps gave his arm to- Mrs. Winslow,- Victor followed with, Marie, and Auguste followed with. Louise.  Mrs. Winslow looked back with a pleased expression, and threw a coquettish glance to Victor. "Have you known M. La Tourette long?" she inquired of her escort. "He seems a very nice young man. I think he must be of good family." "Never met him before. He is certainly well educated and very intelligenit. Indeed, I have never met one who excited so much interest on so short an, acquaintance." They were now in the captain's private cabin. 4( Rather cramped accommodations for a dinner- party," said he, "but it is a great pleasure to have you with me."' All were delighted.             . "A gem of a place," said Mrs. Winslow. M. Deschamps had dined in a wigwam no larger -t1han this cabin' with thirty Indian warriors. Marie screamned. "The horrid creatures!" cried Mrs. Winslow. "I should die of fright at the sight of one." "I'd like nothing better: that would be jolly," said Augustus. "Augustus was always romantic," remarked his mother, fondly. "Yes, Gus said he was going to marry an Indian princess," and Marie giggled derisively. "Don't be silly, Marie," said her mother, fear- ing an explosion from Augustus.  100     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. The captain interfered. "M. La Tourette," said he, half-faltering and coloring slightly, "will you ask a blessing?" Victor responded with perfect self-possession. Bowing his head, he said ' We thank thee, our heavenly' Fatler, for our daily bread. Amen." For a moment there was a little restraint. Mrs. Winslow had forgotten the r61e in which Victor had figured at the breakfast-table, but his asking a blessing reminded her that he had said he was going out as a missionary to America; and her curiosity was excited. How 'could so ,you ng and stylish a man be a missionary? It was too bad! She had thought of him just before as a match for Marie. Victor was the first to speak after the short interruption. ",Boston is quite a large city, I believe'?   , "No, - very small. After having lived in Paris, one seems almost in the backwoods in Boston. I never can be contented to live there. Oh dear me! if France were, only what it was before the Revolution, and these* horrid wars would cease, I would try to persuade my husband to go there to live. I can't bear the old Puritan ways. What could hlave tempted you to leave France; M. La -Tourette"?" "I am seeking what I could not find in France, -an opportunity to preach the Gospel." "He is going out as a missionary," said the captain.   C ATHOLCIZTY ,AND UNITARIANISM.     101  ' "Did you think we were all heathen in Amer- ica, M. La Tourette?" inquired Marie, roguishy. "-4Why, everybody is pious in Boston. You will have to go with Gus among the Indians," "Pious!" exclaimed Gus, contemptuously. ;"That don't begin ,to express it. They are blue is indigo." "I would go anywhere where there is toleration of honest differences of opinion. Freedom of dis- cussion is the first requisite of 'the development of Catholic ideas."  '"Oh, you must be a Unitarian, like papa," said Marie. "Ma and me are Episcopalians.   Gus: goes where he can see the prettiest girls." All laughed at Augustus's expense; and he seemed rather pleased. "You do not understand papa's' views, and Augustus is not yet decided," said Mrs. Winslow, apologetically.   I "Ar'n't you  a Unitarian, papa?" persisted MCarie.                   "Why, my dear, I am a Congregationalist, am [ not?" replied the professor, slowly, and trying Lo smile. "I think it more likely that M. La rourette is an Episcopalian, as I understood him Lo say -that he was neither a Romanist nor a Protestant."' .            ' '  "Oh, I hope you are!" exclaimed Mrs. Winslow, enthusiastically, and turning towards Victor. :' You are, ar'n't you, M. La Tourette?. We have a lovely little chapel and a very select congrega-   102    VICTOR LA' TOURETTE. tion. And Mr. Willoughby, our young rector, is a love of a man, of one of the first families, and a most beautiful preacher." "I am sorry I cannot respond in the affirmna- tive," said Victor, smiling. "You know I was brought, up in France, where the English Church has not yet been established."     X " here!my first guess must be right. You do belorg to the Unitarians, don't you?" said Marie, clapping her little hands. "I am sorry to be compelled to say no again. But from what I know of the Unitarians I should say they are very liberal." "None more so," said the professor, confidently. "They would toletate entire freedom of opinion, and would do away with old dogmas. But there are but few pronounced Unitarians yet in America, and there are no churches. For the present they are but a leaven in the old congregations." ' I fear," said Victor, hesitating, " that in doing away with old dogmas they would put away the fnndameintal principle of the Church,- a belief in Christ. Indeed, is it not: true that this principle is the first assailed? My own idea is to cling fast to that, and to tolerate all honest differences on other questions of theology. This done, there would be unity in diversity, and the Church would be Catholic." The professor lifted; his brows, and after draw- ing in his breath replied slowly and with great gravity: ', I must confess that your idea is' some- /   ' CATHOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM. 103 what striking, but hardly practical. In fact, it seems anomalous, I had almost said absurd: for neces- sarily one must be Trinitarian or Unitarian, if a religious man at all; and, if the former, it cannot matter much what other dogmas he holds." "' But is it necessary to a belief in Christ that one should hold to the Athanrasian creed or other- wise, or indeed to subscribe to any symbol in which the nature of the Godhead is sought to be defined?" said Victor, eagerly. "Confessedly the subject is obscure. No person pretends to have fathomed the mystery of his own being even, much less that, -of God. And, if not necessary to be Trinitarian in a technical sense, it surely carinot be necessary to be Unitarian; for Unitarianism would never have beenheard of, had there been no Trinitarian dogma." "I do not know," said the professor, in a some- what cutting and sarcastic tone, ' what might have been true, had the doctrine of the Trinity never been enunciated ; but as a matter of fact it was early engrafted upon the Church, and is now regarded by all who claim to be Orthodox as a fundamental doctrine. If therefore it be false, the only escape from it is in Unitarianism. lWhen you, come to my years, you will perhaps be more inclined to take things as' they are, and not waste time in specula- tions in regard to what might have been." Victor was slightly dashed by the professor's manner, and did not reply at once. 'M., Deschamps came to his- aid. "Well, Professor," said he, laughing, "you treat -   104'    VICTOR LA TOURETTE.        -/ M. La Tourette much as we old lawyers are ac- customed to treat young practitioners. When we cannot answer their arguments, we give themn ad- vice, and this always confuses them and generally wins the case with, the jury. If all should take things as they are, there would be no excuse for any exchanging Trinitarianism for Unitariani'sm Indeed, the principle of accepting, things as we find them would effectually bar all progress. Had it universally .obtained, America would still be a colony of England, Protestantism would have been uunlown, and in fact Christianity would never have intruded upon Paganism. I think my- self if one, especially' a young man, has any honest conviction, he should maintain it, and not sacrifice it for any prudential consideration. Making m'at- ters of conscience mere questions of policy destroys all manliness and nobility of character. -But I do not suppose that was your idea, Professor, - only I feared it might be go construed. As for me, so far from taking things as they are, I have an utter replgnance to pretty much every thing that goes now-a-days under the name of religion. These differences of theology through' which brethren become enemies, persecute each other, burn, each other: at the stake, are the work of Satan, if there be such a being. Better burni the Bible, it is only a Jewish tradition; pull down the Church, it is only a whited sepulchre." M. Deschamps was ordiparily a man of refined 'and gentlemanly manners, ,ad exceedingly courte-   CATHOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM. 105 ous in his intercourse with others; but now his face was flushed and angry, and his tone harsh and defiant .  Th-e professor turned uneasily in his chair. His forehead contracted, but he made no reply. Victor glancing around, and feeling uncertain whether to speak or remain silent, met the tearful eyes of Louise fixed upon him in passionate entreaty, as if beseeching him to utter the emotions she could not herself express. But the captain anticipated him. "You must excuse my friend Deschamps. He has very nearly expressed what my own mind has been. But he has suffered, being a landsman, more than I have from the bigotry and persecution of religious zealots; and this has made' lim somewhat emphatic in his utterances."       ' "I am ashamed to have betrayed any excite- ment," said Deschamps. "There was no occasion in fact for it. .I certainly meant no reflection upon the professor nor upon M. La Tourette. I have / again and again made up my mind to have nothing to say about religion, and indeed seldom do say any thing, but when tempted do not know where to stop. The mummbries of Rome; or, the canting, hypocritical face of Garvey, come up before me, - and I have suffered from both, - and I get excited. But I really am interested and instructed- by a dis- cussion of this kind."  The professor now spoke, and his manner seemed, very much changed, his tone becoming more frank 5* :     .       ' I    106    VICTOR LA- TOURET-TE. and confidential. ." I have been brought up," he I said, " in a school somewhat different'from either "of you. My position has rendered it necessary that I should be cautious and conservative; and perhaps the advice I gave to my young friend here was rather the expression of my experience than of my conscientious convictions. If so, I beg his pardon. I would not from my heart advise him to take the popular religion of the day as he finds it ; for there has been a constantly growing repugnance in my mind for years to the Puritan theology with which I have been hedged in, though I have re- mained nominally a member of a Congregational Ch urch. And I think I may venture to say here in confidence- and I have often said the same in my family- that I am quite sceptical in relation to the divinity of Christ. Doubtless he was a good inan, perhaps very nearly a perfect man;an and as such his teachings ,are worthy of great respect. I would not do away with the Church ahd the sacra- ments, but I would worship only oTne God. I cannot go as far as my friend Deschamps; yet I think he wfll, not accuse me of bigotry. Indeed, the spirit of Unitarianism is toleration. It is, a protest against the illiberality, tyranny, and cant of Puritaniism, "amn glad to hear you say this," said Deschamps. "I think I could be a Unitarian, if that is his spirit"  "Are there many Unitarian Churches in Bos- ton?" inquired Victor. M   CATHOLICITY AiVD UNZTA    ANZISM. 107 "None at all as yet that are nominally such, but several are virtually so. At any rate, there are many Unitarians, though all do hot openly avow their belief." e  "Is it not rather a lack of belief?" "Oh, no I we hold the Unitarian idea as strongly as others hold the Trinitarian." "If there were a Church established represent- ing your views, you would call it a Unitarian Church, I presume." ,I think that -would be a proper designation. Some would call it Socinian; but it would be better to have its name represent its fundamental principle." ' f "Do you think the Unitarian idea is or can be a fundamental principle of the Church? Did Christ live, labor, and die to teach that he himself was not divine?" "Well, that depends upon whether Unitarianism be true or not." "4 I think you are mista\ken," said Victor, mod- estly. i "The sole question, it seems to me, is whether Christ be true or not. Would you admit a Trinitarian into your Church?" "I suppose so, if he wished to come in; but that would-. be inconsistenht with his own profession of belief, and with our name, spirit, and purpose." "You do not doubt that one who sincerely holds the doctrine of the Trinity can be a Christian?" 'Doubtless ihe cani; but he better go else- where."   1088    VICTOR LA TO UCkET TE. "Then you   confess that Unitarianism is as exclusive in spirit as Trinitarianism?" "I confess nothing of the kind," said the pro- fessor, with some irritation, "On the contrary, we are liberal and tolerant in all matters of belief." I "Indeed, I think you are," said Victor, " except as regards the- question of the Trinity. My chief fear in relation to your denomination, as I at first hinted, would be that it would subvert the funda- mental principle of Christianity, which is faith in Christ." ' But we shall believe still in God." "Doubtless. But men believed in a Supreme Being before Christ came into the world; and hence, if Unitarianism simply is the result of his mission, nothing has been gained. In founding the Church, he proclaimed his purpose to be to save all who would believe in him. He said nothing about Trinitarianism  nor Unitarianism  as essential -to salvation. If, therefore, Unitarians exclude Trini- tarians, they cannot be Catholic. Moreoyer, the fact that a Church is called Unitarian or Trinit-a, rian is in itself confession that it is not Catholic. It is built on a human dogma, and represents that dogma, and not on Christ, and does not represent Christ." ' The professor replied jocosely, but with a tone isomewhat derisive: "Indeed, I had no idea of encountering sucl an enthusiast. I will give you credit for earnestness and zeal at least; but, if you are really going out as a mi;ssionary to America, I  ,  .   { ,   CA THOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM. 109 fear you will not make many converts. It is called a free country; but, if there is religious despotism anywhere, it is there,-? at least in Boston. I am not sure in fact that you could get a hearing at lall; or, if you; did, you Would; stand: a good chance of being pelted with unsavory missiles. - Certainly you could not get a living. Still I like your theology better than. Puritanism, though -I fear it is but a dream." ' O M. La Tourette," exclaimed Mrs. Winslow, in almost tragic tones, " do not attempt to preach in Boston. Why, don't yo'u know that the boys sometimes hoot at us- and throw stones at-the windows? ,And the Unitarians are just as hostile to the Church as the rest." "Wlhy, no, my dear," said the professor, when . the laugh at his expense had subsided. "Unitari- ans would tolerate any honest- convictions. They are guilty of no persecutions, and there has never been aiiny blood on their garments." "My dear, didn't you yourself say that Episco- palians were only white washed Romanists?" All were now in a laughing humor. "Then you think I should not escape martyr- dom, even if I should become an Episcopalian?" said Victor, addressing Mrs. Winslow. " Oh, yes! now you would. We are too well established to be molested seriously, and ridicule does iiot trouble us. If you wish, I can procure you an introduction to the Bishop.  Even my husband would lend his influence to that end. I   "O   ' VICTOR LA TOURETTE. do re lly wish you would unite with us; and, indeed, you look like an Episcopal minister." "That's jolly," said Gus, laughing louder than Xthe rest. Louise alone seemed unhappy. "Why don't you laugh?" said Marie. "I sup- pose you are tired of this religious talk, and I am too. I really thought it was getting serious alt one time, but I hope we are over it now."'  "I hope not," said Louise,-' not till M. La Tourette shall' have told us what he thinks of Christ? '          - "That I think," said the professor, looking with a kindly interest upon, Louise," is the consideration of most importance, and one that was not settled. What Christ was must be first determined,. before we can arrive at a rational conclusion in relation to the merits of the questions we discussed: I understood M. La Tourette to say it was a matter o: indifference what our estimate of Christ's nature inight be, and therefore that the question at issue between Unitarians and Trinitarians was of no moment. I am willingl to look at t'his interesting subject without prejudice, and, to express myself frankly. H onfess I am not altogether satisfied; with Unitarianism. I see in it more an apology for not believing in' what is called Orthodoxy than a positive system of theology, -a weapon with which ,to assail what is believed to be untrue rather than a defence of any essential doctrine. Of course, ;Unitarians are as moral and religious as others; but,   CATH OLICITY AVD 'UNITARIANISM. 1ll denying the divinity of Christ, their morals and religion, are not supposed to be derived from any supernatural source, and scarcely differ from what they would have been, had Christ not come into the world. They may regard him as a great teacher, but denying  his divinity of course they cannot regard him in any other than in: a natural sense the Saviour of the world, as any other man would be, who was possessed of equal ability and was capable of ,exerting an equal influence for good; as, for example, Confucius or Mohammed. I con- fess I was struck by M. Li Tourettes remark that God was worshipped before Christ came into the world, and candor compels me to say tQiat without ? doubt Unitarianism  does overthrow the funda- mental principle of what has been regarded as Christianity, and refers us back to the beginning for our chief object of adoration and worship. It may be an advance upona a simple belief in God, but not in the sense usually attached to Christian- ity. At the best, it only represents a degree of progress in the knowledge of God and of the con- ditions of the future life, that has been attained through the teachings of a great , moralist- and re- former, but by no means presents- in what is called the, Church a system of divine origin, complete, per- fect, and. incapable of improvement, or that is of superhuman origin. Thus much I concede,--that it does overthrow the fundamental principle of Christianity, if by Christianity we mean a system ta'ught and promulgated by a being who is one of   "2    VICTOR LA TOURETTE, 9 three persons who together constitute God. Never- theless, the Unitarian may be right. Indeed, I claim that he is right. And if so, -if he represents Christ to be all that he really was, and all that he really claimed to be,- then what matter if he do/ overthrow the fundamental principle of Christian- , ity? There is nothing gained in the end by de- ception. Uniess it can be shown that Jesus was truly God, Unitarianism .must stand." "That' is certainly good reasoning," said Des- champs.  -  1"I don't know," said Victor, nervously. "The point I wished to make was this: whatever Christ's nature, whe-ther man only, or both God and ,man, there could properly be no religious system derived from him, except- that which he himself taught and established. Hence, to call his Church Trinitarian or Unitarian is a misnomer, since his Church is Catholic. The scheme he origi- nated is totally different in its scope and purpose from either one or the other of these. He pro- fessed to Ihave a purpose and plan, and that pur- pose and plan are expressed by the word bCatholie, and by no other' symbol. His mission was not to teach the world, any of the dogmas of modern theology; and hence neither the dogma of the Trinity of God, nor that of the Unity of God, nor indeed any dogmas but those he himself enunci- ated, have any place in his system. And if any other be incorporated therein, and thereby any person be hindered from accepting his system, then   /  CATHOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM. 113 his purpose so far as that person is concerned is defeated. Whether Unitarianism be true or not is, therefore, not properly an essential consideration in- connection with Christianity. The sole question is, whether Christ taught what was true or not. If I say I think' he did, and if I am willing to act in accordance with that declaration, and do so act,  I an his disciple, and a member of his Church. But if you say I shall not come into his Church unless I admit that there is'but one person in God, or if another says I shall not come in except I admit there are three persons in God, you and he are assuming a right and an authority you do not pos- sess. You' are in fact thwarting Christ's work, and instead of being his disciple have set yourself up in opposition to his will. And if in place of Cath- olic, which is the only true symbol of his Church, you put Unitarian, Trinitarian, Roman, or any other appellation whatever, you make his system another syvstem, - one that is narrow, partial,- and exclusive. Without doubt, Unitarianism is either true or false. Christ was either human or divine, or both human and divine; but .neither the truth of Christianity nor the salvation of a single soul depends upon a full conception or accurate definition of his nature. If what Christ taught be true, it would not be more or less true, whether Unitarianism be true or false. As a matter of interest and culture, we may inquire in relation to the nature of Christ, and our belief may be more or less strengthened or weakened by our conclusions; and yet the truth * *H E    i   "4     vICTOR LA TOURETTE.' of Christianity would be the same in either case. I am quite willing to tell you what I think of ;Christ. I tink his nature divine. But, if I thought it only,' human, my confidence in his truth and promises would not be shaken." "That's it," exclaimed the captain, vehemently. "I see the point clearly now, what I have to decide. M. La Tourette put me in a train of thought last night that has convinced me that there is a God; and I am free to say that I do not be- lieve any other iman could have done it. And he did it, too, in just the way he has pointed out the true line of inquiry in relation to Chtist. He put aside all side issues, and considered the one question,- whether there be a God or not. Ma- terialism, Pantheism, the supremacy of natural law, and the duration of matter; whether- mind be flesh, whether nature be a self-acting machine, ,or matter eternal, - all questions were left undecided till this one was settled; namely, wh'ether there be a God or not. I believe now there is, -a conclu- sion I never could have reached, had-I attempted to solve either of the other questions first. I can settle them at my leisure; but that there is a Supreme Being I can never doubt again, though I may not be able to settle in my mind exactly what his nature is. So, in relation to Christ, all we have to inquire at first is whether 'the merits of his example and teachings are such as to enable us to put our trust in him. I've been looking so much at tie diversities of belief, that I have not looked '  -       , ,           ;   CA THOLICITY AIND UNITARIANISM. 115  at the real question; so much at men, that I have not looked at Christ. And I have found so much fault, too, with all the religions of the day, that I have not till now thought to inquire what Chrigt's, religion really was, and had in fact put it away as false. But I mean to know; and I don't care what Puritanism, Romanism, Trinitarianism, or Unitarianism, teaches. JIf Christ teaches what is true, I will believe in him, and will do to the best of my ability what he would have me to do., Last night, when I got back into my cabin after my con- versation with M. La Tourette, though it was past midnight, I took out the little Bible my mother gave me thirty years ago, and which I had scarcely opened since; and I read the first Gospel through with the most intense interest. And I was as- tonished at myself, at my former blindness and apathy. Why, there is no reason in the world why a -an should not be a Christian. You can't find any fault with Christ." The captain would have spoken further but-for the emotion that choked his utterance. "That is perfectly splendid," said Mrs. Wins- low.  Louise, who for a long time could hardly restrain her enthusiasm, sprang up and threw her arms around the 'neck of the old sailor, and covered his face with kisses. Deschamps was much affected, but he joined in the pleasantry Louise's enthusiasm excited. "That is woman's argument," said he. -"O ho! are you   16   twICTOR LA TOURETTE.       A I  going to try it -on me too ?  I'm afraid " -  But his words were smothered in kisses. "Why didn't you go around?" said Marie, as |  Louise sat down in confusion. I :  "I wouldn't mind being converted in that way I too," said Gus. The professor did not join heartily in the mirth. He had been half lost in thought' and now spoke up in a serious tone:- I "I do not feel like giving up this argument yet. I will admit, however, that Christ's mission was not to teach Unitarianism nor any of the distin- guishing tenets of any sect, and that a belief in i none of these tenets should be required for admis- sion;to the Church; and yet I doubt whether one can have a very strong faith in Christ, or feel a very strong devotion to the Church, till this ques- tion is settled which respects Christ's nature,  and settled, too, in a way different from that in which I have settled it in my own mind; for having con- cluded that Christ was not God, but simply man, I must say I have not much faith in him at all. You will not be surprised at my saying this, for I have virtually conceded that there is nothing sat- isfactory in Unitarianism. Suppose now that I am correct, that as a matter of fact Christ was simply human,    why should we believe in him more than 'in any other man of equal honesty and ability ? You object to human dogmas, and I agree with you that they ought not to be forced upon any one; but, if Christ was merely man, what are his teach-   CATHOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM.     117  ings but human dogmas ? And, if such they be, - they have no more authority than the teachings of Confucius or Mohammed." When the professor had concluded, the captain seemed perplexed and Louise's face again betrayed anxiety.                        '  " I think M. La Tourette will have to surrender now," said Deschamps. Victor's clear mind instantly apprehended the situation. "You have suggested a real difficulty," said he,-" the difficulty of persuading men of the truth of the gospel. This Christ himself en- countered. It is literally true that some would not believe, though one should rise from the dead. You admit that you do not believe, and give as a reason therefor that you do rot believe Christ to have been divine in nature. But you were once a Trinitarian; and did that prevent your becoming ;sceptical?  Did that remove all doubt?  Plainly it did not, for otherwise you swould have still been a believer. Is it not true that by your questioning the dogma of the Trinity? you were led to doubt the divine origin of Christianity? And, if so, then that dogma, so far from being any support to your faith, actually impaired it. All I claim is that no human dogma is of any advantage or necessity, but more frequently a stumbling-block. -Men did believe in Christ, and so strongly  too that they- were willing to die in vindication of their faith, before the dogma of the Trinity had been even thought of. Whly should they not now ? Instead   "8    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. of that dogma being essential to faith, I think one must first believe in Christ before he can credit it at all.- In other words, the dogma is not essential to a belief in Christ, but a belief in Christ is es- sential to a belief in the dogma. All dogmas must originate from some previously established truth. I believe in Confucius and Mohammed, so far as I believe they taiught the truth; and I believe in Christ, only so far as I think he taught the truth. But I believe in- the former only partially, because I think they taught but partial truths, and many errors; but I believe in Christ fully, because I be- lieve he taught the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. By the introduction of dogmas, men come to think that faith in those dogmas is faith in Christ, whereas it is in no way connected with, nor dependent upon them. One may believe in the dogma of the Trinity, and yet have no real faith in Christ, - that faith which bringeth forth obedi- ence and good works. The gospel, I admit, must stand on its own merits; but it must not and ean- not be made to stand or fall with other systems. I- have no objection to men believing in human dogmas, but they must not force them upon others, nor make their acceptance a condition of the ac- tceptance of the gospel. I confess I am very dog- matic in my views. I have settled opinions about all questions of theology; but those opinions are my own.   The, gospel is not responsible for them. Nor does my hope of salvation rest on them, but on faith in Christ 'alone. Now if it be a matter of   CATHOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM.      119 ] fact, as you suggest, that Christ was simply human in nature, I admit that we are not required to believe in him any more than in any other man; that is, not compelled to do so. But the same is true, if his nature is divine; for I repeat that'his gospel must be judged on its merits. I would note indeed inquire at -all about the authenticity of "the- Bible till this was settled. If I had never seen nor heard of the New Testament before, I should believe it readily, if chancing to pick up a copy I found it taught the truth. If you cannot believe it, if you thinkt it is not-the truth and the whole truth in relation to man's redemption, why then 'you will reject it, as you would the teachings of Confucius or Mohammed." '"You admit, then, that Christ's authority is no greater than that of any other man?" "I admit that it is not till the truth of his teach- ings has become established in one's mind. With me, his authority is complete, because the evidence of his truth is complete. But with you it is un- satisfactory, because you deem the evidence incon- clusive." "Would you not, if, you were attempting to persuade another of the truth of the, gospel, insist ' that it was true because Christ was God, and that therefore his teachings were infallible?" "I would not. I would appeal to the man's rea- son and natural perceptions of right first. I would ask him to believe the gospel because of its truth; and if I succeed in convincing his reason and nat-   120      ICT . OR -LA TOURETTE. ural perceptions of right, then inevitably would he believe in Christ, and Christ would be his authority. Faith is not, as some. have definlied it, a belief in what is contrary to reason or incredible, but a belief in what is in accordance with reason, and credible.", ",But are not the miracles Christ is said to have performed the evidence of his power and author- ity? And yet they transcend human reason and power." "The miracles recorded in the New Testament are a-part of the-gospel; but I would not ask one to believe in them till he had become otherwise convinced of--the truth of Christ. They were given to illustrate the truths taught orally, and so far' as regards the simple fact of their having been   rbOught are of secondary importance. As evidence of the truth of the gospel,- they are hardly to be onsidered at all. Christ himself upbraids the people because they would not believe without seeing signs and wonders. If thb gospel rested on them alone, it would 'be -no more credible than any one of the ;many religions attested in this way."  "Well,"' said the;professor, good-naturedly, " we will let that subject drop for the present. I see you have anticipated every objection to your theory. Suppose now you answer Miss Deschamps' ques- tion which'we have lost sight of from  the start, and tell us what you think of Christ." "I think he was the Word of God," replied   ,      ,   v     t    '  1 . CATHOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM. 121 Victor, instantly., "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word- was God."? "That is very indefinite." "It is the definition of St. John, who was more intimate with Christ than any other man." 1"Yes, blut he borrowed it from the Gnostics, who were mere %ystics. Indefinite phrases will not db now-a-days with intelligent men. You said yourself you would appeal first to reason and in-, tuitive perceptions of right." "No matter where St. John borrowed it, though he did not get it from the: Gnostics, but from Plato, who I sometimes think was inspired, if from any one. If it is the proper symbol of Christ's nature, - and,'if it were not, St. John would not have used it,--it is not essential how it originated. And it does not seem to me mystical, but easy of appre- hension"   ' "Why, yes: we all know what a word is, but to call a man a word is mysticism, -nay, absurd and heathenish. A  word is material, the mere scratch of a 'pen; and to say that it is a man is lmuch like making- an image of wood or stone and calling it God." "Is a word simply the scratch of a pen? Has it not a spirit as well as a letter? Could the let- ters combined make a word, if they did not mean something?" "I suppose not. Well, call the letters combined with the thought they express a word, -what then? 6.   122    vICTOR LA TOURETTE. Christ was not; simply a thought. I have myself a higher appreciation of him than that." 'i But it takes more than letters and thoughts to constitute words. There must be something the thought represents, must there not?" The professor hesitated., : Yes," he finally said, "I see that my definition wais imperfect. A word is the expression ofLa man's mind.." - "And II'presume you will admit that any ex- pression of a man's mind is a word?"  Y"Yes." " And that the entire expression of a man's i nature is thie word of that man?" After thinking a moment, the professor assented. Well then, when it is said that Christ is the Word of Gkod, it is meant that he is the full' ex- pression, of God's nature, that he is God expressed in humanity." The professor was amazed. "Young man," said he, "you are certainly a theologian, and the world will hear of you some day. I am not certain, how- ever, that you are right about this. Let me re- fleet,- -' God expressed in humanity,' - would Christ be God then?" "Just as much as your word is you." "Wellj what do you say? Am I and my word identical?" ("Not exactly identical, but one and inseparable, as your mind and thought are one and insepara- ble. Every thing must have form and expression. Your soul must have therefore a body; but that  .x   CATHOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM. 123 body is not the soul, though the two are one and inseparable. I say, therefore, that your word is not your self-conscious being, - not the soul itself,- but its form and expression. So Christ is not the Head and Fountain of Deity,-not the 'I AM,' who is the inscrutable mystery of existence to  which we cannot approach, -but the embodiment, form,' and expression in our nature of God's na- tthure."     ,  "You are a little too obscure for me. I am not- clear that you are not making a distinction without a difference. Answer me definitely. Do you say that Christ is God?"     ",I say the visible Christ is the Word of God." "But is he God,?"        ? "He is one with God."  "But is he God? ' "He is our God, - the visible God, -and we shall never in this life nor the next behold or know -another. In the Word -only can the personality of God be revealed." "You dodge my question," said the professor. "I wish to know whether you think there are three persons in God, or only one." "Not three separate and distinct persons, as Peter, Paul, and John "are separate and distinct; but as there is a trinity in all things, so is there in God. What confuses us is that the appellation God is indefinite. It is of heathen origin and means niothing. The proper designation is Jeho- vah, the name by which ,God designated himself.   124    YVCTOR LA TOURETTE. This means the ' I AMi,' which implies what cannot be otherwise expressed. One idea of it is the Un- created, that which has no beginninig nor ending. Another is the Creator, that in which all things exist. Another is the Personal Consciousness i Now, if there be a Supreme Being, it is evident that there must be in him, as there is in man, who we are taught was made in his image, three con- ditions: first, one inward and invisible, which is his essence; second, one outward and visible, which is' his word; third, one active and inspiring, which is his Spirit. In other words, there must be in him the power to will, the power to manifest himself, 'and the power to act. When we speak of his essence, we mean God the Father, the Head and Fountain of Deity. As such, we can never see him, know, comprehend, love, or form any conception of him; for he is the infinite, the muap- proachable, the mystery of mysteries. When we speak of him personified, we mean his Word. which is Christ, whom we ca:2 see, know, and love. When we speak of his inward activity and life, we mean his presence every jThere and in all things, Which is his Spirit. Therefore, while there is but one God, there are in him three conditions, . the essence or consciousness, the person or Word, the' life or Spirit, So far from this being inexplicable, the contrary would be absurd. Could there be a Supreme Being without consciousness or the power to will, the power to reveal himself, and the power to act? Yet the consciousness or will   CAETHOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM. '125 is Inot the activity, nor is it the Word or person- ality." s"Well, one must hold his breath a good while to follow that through," said the professor ;," but it is the most rational view of the subject I have yet heard. What do you think, of it? turning to Deschamps and the captain. 4 I do not understand it fully," said the captain; "but I thiink I am on the right track now.'" "The subject is very obscure," said Deschamps, thoughtfully. "There is one thing I should like to have M. La Tourette explain, - that is Christ's human nature. You have said you thought h6 was God: now tell us if you thihk he ,was inali'         ; * "I said I thought he was the Word of God,- tihe personification of God in our humanity. As for his human nature, there can be no doubt at all of that." "How could he be both God and man?" "Just as a man is both an animal and a spirit." "You think he had then a body of flesh andi blood?   . 'Yes." "A human mind?" "Yes: faculties like ours, '"A human soul?          ,I "'Yes!: a soul of the snme nature as man's." "Any thing more?"         ' " No. Christ's nature is divisible, as ours is." , How did he differ from ordinary men then?    -126 ,   VICTOR 'LA TOURETTE. "Only as the perfect differs from the imperfect, the infinite from the finite." "You mean only in degree?"  "  Only in degree, not in kind." "And yet you say he NWas God?" "Yes: the- personification of God in our out- ward nature." "Then in a degree every man is the Word of God, - that is, the personification of God?" "No, not the personification of -God. Man is in the image of God, -the semblance, not the per- sonification of God. God and man are as distinct from each other in personality as two men are." "*I cannot see it," said Deschamps.' "Youi say that Christ is man, having a body, a mind, and a soul like man's, and is moreover the Word of God. Then why is not any man, the Word of God also?" "Why, it does not follow that because you have a body, mind, and soul like mine, that you are the same person that I am. Christ is like us, but he is not you nor I. He has a different personality. His personality is that of Jehovah, yours is that of M. Deschamps." "Oh, yes! that is plain, I will admit. I think I comprehend your-idea clearly now." "Not so fast," said the professor, shaking his head incredulously. "He has not yet explained how Christ could be both God and mani." *"Why, yes! do you not see,", said Deschamps, with animation, ' that he can be bothl God and   , CATHOLICITY AND, UNITARIANISM.    127 man, because God himself does not 'differ from man in kind, but only in degree, as the infinite ,'from the finite?" "You do not mean to say that God is a man?? "Yes," said Victor, quietly: " a man of infinite power, one in whose image all men are made, and from whom we differ bnly in 'degree. God is the Original Man." "O M. La Tourette!" exclaimed Mrs. Wirn-    - slow,'"God is not a :man. I feel dreadfully shocked to hear you say that." Victor began to explain hurriedly that God was not an ordinary man, but was infinite in greatness and glory,.howheit that the human race was of Ilis kind; but the professor interrupted liom: - "' Yes, we understand all that, but the matter is not yet clear. If Christ was in person God, then  [ he could have had no human personality. And further it must follow that God himself was born into the world, suffered, and died. Moreover, he could not be triune. Indeed, you have entirely abandoned your former position, and have become a radical Unitarian.'" "If I have," said Victor, pleasantly, u-I vet differ materially from your school; for you think Christ was altogether human, while I presume you will say I have made him altogether divine. But I do not think it follows fromlllmy definition of his nature that he had no human personality. He certainly had a body of flesh and blood, did he not?"   12$    VICTOR :LA TOURETTE. 1 '          ,   ', ,I Certainly." 'W Vell, is not that a human personality?" "Of! course; but you said he had the person- ality o0 God, and now you say he had a human personality. You surely dlo not mean that he had 'a double personality?" "I mean that he had an inward and an outward nature, just as you have a natural and a spiritual body in conjunction. Your inward nature is your soul. His inward nature was his soul, - the soul of God, if I may so express it., Of course yoursoul must have a form, or it could not exist; and, if so, a body. The same is true of Christ." A i Very well," said the professor, laughing: "you have got along with that,  or think you have. And I confess there may be a double -personality of that kind in one person. Still I insist that it is Unitarianism. And you do not get rid of the other difficulty, the inference that God himself suffered on the cross." "If, as you now admit, there was a double per- sonality in Christ, an'd that is Unitarianism, then I am a Unitarian. It is a matter of indifference what one is called, if he is only right. But I recognize a' great distinction between the ' I AM ' and the ' Word,' and have no doubt of the triune nature of God. So, too, I am indifferent whether I be called a Patripassian or not, but I do not hold that God the Father suffered physical pain. Christ's body and mind suffered, --his outward or animal body and mind, without doubt; but it is    1   CA THOLICITY AND UNITARIANISM. - 129 unnecessary to assert or deny any thing farther. The philosophy of sensation has no immediate relation to the question we discussed. If it does inevitably follow, however, from what I have said, that I must be a Patripassian, then of course I must accept the title." "But I do not mean to let you off so. Do you not think it is the soul that suffers?" "No,- not that suffers physical pain, but'the animal nature only." :"What do you mean by the animal nature? Does that include the mind?" "Animals, without doubt have minds." "Do you not think they have souls also?" i "Opapa," exclaimed Marie, "I am so tired!" Mrs. Winslow-yawned audibly. "The discussion has been very interesting, -very," said she; "'but I think, my dear, the young people will enjoy, themselves better on deck, it is so bright a day." Gus roared. "' Interesting!' Why, it has been all Greelk to me. And I am certain I saw yout nodding; mamma." "'You are mistaken, Augustus. I heard every word. I wish you were a member of the Church, and you would enjoy religious conversation." Gus laughed good-naturedly. "You know I do enjoy religious conversation, mamma, with Mr. Willoughby, when he calls to see me. He talks about the music, the church trimmings, and the pretty girls, -tells capital stories, and smokes good cigars." 6" .    130    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. "Hush, hush, Augustus!   You treat serious matters too lightly. Mr. Willoughby is a very pious minister, but not bigoted. He is yovung, fand some allowance must be made for that. All ' through Lent he held services twice every day, ancl did not eat a bit of meat." ' He told me," said Marie, "-that he hoped you would be confirmed in the next class; but I mean to tell him how you talk, Gus." "Oh, he will take -me anyhow, if I want to come.         ,  ' I presume so," said the professor, iwith a quiet humor. "Episcopalians do not require a- change of heart for admission to their Church." 'No," replied Mrs. Winslow, with spirit, " but they require regeneration; and baptisnm is regener- ation." "I don't believe any thing would regenerate Gus," said Marie, mischievously. "Don't talk that way, my dear. I am sorry Augustus was not baptized when he was a babe, but Mr. Winslow would not consent. Do you be- lieve in infant baptism, M. La Tourette?" 1 u Oh, yes! Christ said, 'Suffer little children to come unto me.'"  "I am so glad to hear you say that. Why, M. La Tourette, I do not see hly you should not be an Episcopalian. You believe in the Trinity and in infant baptism." "But I a afraid," said Victor, laughing, "you are not Catholic."   CATrHOLICITY AND UNITARIA'ISM. 181 "Oh, yes! we are. We believe in the Holy Catholic Church. That is, a part of, our creed. Look, here it is." And Mrs. Winslbw drew a beautifully bound Liturgy from her pocket, and opening at the Apostles' Creed handed it to Victor. "I am sorry to inter'rupt you," interposed the captain; "but I am afraid M. La Tourette has for- gotten that he appointed a service for this after- noon at four o'clock, and it is nowpast three." "Oh! let us have an Episcopal service," ex- claimed Mrs. Winslow, enthusiastically. "Won't you read the evening prayer? Let me show it to you. Marie has a Liturgy, and so has Gus, and we can give the responses." "With great pleasure," 'said Victor, sm;l;ngi "If you will lend me the book, I will look it over,. and I think I can use a part, if not all." Mrs. Winslow was delighted.    , ,'    , 1 '   182    VICTOR LA TOURVETTE. CHAPTER VIII. , EVENING SERVICE.  ICTOR remained behind while the rest went on deck, that he might make some prepara- tion for the approaching service. From the first, he had felt some little trepidation in relation to it, not having ever conducted public worship. Even in the midst of his protracted discussion, his mind had often reverted to it with anxiety. The liturgies of Rome he was familiar with, but the position he occupied precluded his using them, though he might otherwise have made selections , from them that would not have, been objectionable. He could read from the Protestant Bible, and dis- course on some text, but sometl ing of a devotional nature in addition would be expected. He would gladly have given the service up, and even thought sometimes he would. - What should he do? He knew that Protestants generally extemporized their prayers; but this required practice, and he felt that, should he attempt it, he wouldfail miser- ably. When, therefore, Mrs. Winslow asked him to use the Episcopal Liturgy, it flashed through his mind instantly that here was a way to escape from his embarrassment; and he gladly acceded to her   E ENING SERVICE.       133 request. In fact, he regarded the suggestion as providential, so great had been his perplexity in relation to the matter. His mind seems almost-to have been superstitious in relation to divine inter- position in the affairs of men. All through the record of his life that he has left behind, I find constant evidences of this. Even the most trivial things, and which most people would attribute to chance, he considered providential; and so it is not surprising that he should have regarded this as such, not only for the purpose of relieving him from his embarrassment, but also with the design of bringing the Episcopal Liturgy, which he ever afterwards used in public worship, to his notice. As soon as he was alone, he began eagerly to scan the part entitled "Evening  Prayer'." He had no time to examine the book elsewhere. In a few moments he had looked that part of it- through. It was just suited to his purpose! The Athanasian Creedcl, which he remembered to have seen in the English prayer-book, was omitted in this. The Apostles' Creed which it did contain he had always considered very nearly Catholic, though his jealousy of all creeds- caused him to hesitate a moment about reading it. But, as he could subscribe it himself, he saw no objection to his reading it. The thought came into his mind, though he had not entertained it when Mrs. Winslow first suggested it,-that perhaps he might become a regular minister in the Episcopal Church, and inspired him with new confidence and courage.   134    VZCTOR LA TOURETTE. The future seemled- suddenly all ablaze with light. That he had been able to maintain himself in his argument faith so learned and able an antagonist as the: professor, and had even. extorted from him a high compliment, combined with the full assur- ance he felt from the strange and opportune way in which the Episcopal Liturgy had been put in his hands, convinced him that God had sent an angel to open the prison d6or in which his as- pirations had been fettered, and filled ,his breast with a wild exultation DPoubtless, too, his newly awakened interest in Louise contributed to fan the flame. -ie stood upon his feet thrilled through and through with a tumult of happy emotions. "Glory!" Then he stopped short. "What a fool I am I But God is surely guiding my steps. It could not have been mere' chance that brought -me in contact with these people. God does intend me to fulfil this mission,--how plain it now ap- pears! I can see just how every thing has been arranged, and I ,never will doubt an-overruling i Providence again, whatever may happen." Then he stood for a moment in silence, contem- plating the happy possibilities of the future. The ship's bell admonished him that it lacked but a half hour of the time for service, and he had not yet selected his text. B ut he felt no fear, for he was sure he could talk on any of his many favorite texts, - only he had not selected one yet. He would open the Liturgy at random, and the first words he encountered would perhaps suggest   E VEVING SERVICE.       135 it providentially. Opening with an effort to avoid any design on his part, the first- words his eyes rested upon were : - ' Thou hast loved righteousness and hated ,iniquity; wherefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows." How encouraging! Now he knew that God was on his side. But this could not have been intended for his text, only to assure him that he ihad not been mistaken, and that God would guide and support him. Again he opens the book. What is this which M meets his eye?"Articles of Religion!"--the very articles, too, that had caused him to put away, years before, all idea of entering :the English Church-. What could it mean? Did Providence intend to warn hiim by this against having any thing to, do with the American prayer-book? If so, why had the book been placed in his hands? Or could -it be- a rebke for his aversion to dogmas; and was it true, after all,'that there should be such a system of instruction in the Church as was embodied in the 'thirty-nine articles? He sat down in great despondency, covering his face with his hands. Again the bell struck: it lacked but fifteen minutes of the time for service. - But he could not make up his mind. Now he is almost starting to find the captain, to say to him that he had con- cluded not to hold the service. Mechanically he   36    -VICTOR LA TOURETTE.  takes up the captain's English Bible that he lad , borrowed, and opens at random. The first words _  he reads are:  "God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should -  not perish, but have everlasting life." That settled one difficulty,- this was his text. But what about the Episcopal service ? If he only had a friend to advise him! A thought struck him: what would Louise think ?     It had been struggling up for notice for some time, but had nest been entertained till now. He was certain he would follow her judgment, if he only;' knew what it was. But what would she think, if he should go and ask her-advice? He blushed at the thought! But-the more he thought of it, the more did he desir-eher counsel. He sauntered out on deck, still undecided. Providentially, Louise is sitting, by herself reading.  Mrs. Winslow and Marie are nowhere to be seen; Gus is sitting apart, smoking, his feet elevated upon the railing; and Deschamps and the professor are in earnest con- versation. Suddenly forming his resolution, though still bashful as a schbool-boy, he approaches her. She greets him' with a pleasant smile, but with some embarrassment.    What was she reading'? Oh, the Bible. Playfully, Had she selected a text for him? ,Yes, here was one: ' God so loved ! the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but -have everlasting life."   EVENING SERVICE. i      137  * "'Whv, that is the very text that has been selected for mp!"  Louise looked inquiringly.  He colored and stammered, then explained that he had taken it 'at randoma.  Louise's merry brown eyes looked *thoughtful: did he always select his texts in that way ? Why, did she not know that this was to be lls first sermon ? Now her countenance changes, is full of solic- itation and kindly interest. " Have you prepared it so soon?" she said anxiously. Then coloring from having betrayed so much interest, she added: "All feel great interest in it, especially papa." The bell struck four.   "O Mlle. Deschamps," said he, hurriedly, and' lowering his voice into a confidential undertone, "I wished to ask you what you thought of my using the    Episcopal service ?" ,Louise laughed, -that kind of laugh that is so reassuring. (Certainly I would use it. I like it very much." 'But see," said he, "here are Articles of Re- ligion!" Louise looked puzzled. "You do not have to read them, do you? " "No, but they are in the book." Their eyes met, his expressing the most serious doubt; hers, what could he mean ? Both laughed outright when they    comprehended  each  other's thoughts.  ,138    , VICTOR LA TOURETTE. Victor hurried arway, somewhat mortified, but' thrilled with happy, emotions. Glancing around the as embly in the icabin as he entered, he saw that it was not as lrge as it was in the morning. The priest was not there, but that was not to be expected. But he had rather' thought some of the Romanists would be present. Garvey was seated near the door. The WinsloWs were front, and were soon joined by the Deschamps. A few other passengers, together with the ship's crew, made up, the congregation. :! Victor, though his nature was peculiarly sensi- tive, was calm and self-possessed. The position was a new and trying one, and he felt it deeply; but no one could have guessed from his manner that he suffered any-embarrassment. Indeed, so perfect was his power of self-control that in none of the trying experiences of his- life afterwards was he known to betray any weakness or diffidence in public.  When he entered, a sudden hush pervaded the assembly. He felt that all eyes were turned upon him. IKneeling down, he prayed silently and with all the earnestness of his passionate nature for the inspiration of God. Rising ulp, he felt that his prayer had been answered. All fear and agitation were banished from his breast. He even ventured to look around the assembly. Louise had her eyes I intently fixed upon a book that lay open in her lap. De-schamps and the Winslows were quite at ease. The captain looked happy, and the company gen-   EVENISNG SER VICE.     18 9 erally manifested a quiet interest. He felt that he must proceed deliberately, as the service was new to him; and he sat for some time turning over the leaves of the prayer-book. But at length he rose slowly, and began the service with a clear and firm utterance: "Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be always acceptable in thy sight, O Lord my strength and my Redeemer.' Whenl he came to the :' General Confession," he was surprised to hear so many voices joining with him, but found afterwards kthat it had been an- nounced that the service would be from the Liturgy of the Episcopal Church, with which many were familiar. The second form  of the /Declaration of Absolution he read as a prayer. The interest of the people in the service seemed to deepen the farther he advanced, until the responses were given with genuine enthusiasm; and when he had fin- ished the "First Lesson,", what was his surprise to hear the first chant begun promptly, and with great spirit, by a number of voices male and female, the most prominent of which was that of Augustus! When he had finished the service, he beganjilooling in the Bible for his text. Augustus handed him, a paper, on which was written' in a feminine hand, "We sing a selection and hymn before and after the sermon."  Opening the prayer-book, the first , words that met his eye were the following:- "Lord, for ever at thy side Let my place and portion be; Strip me of the robe of pride,  Clothe me with humility. *    '140     VICTOR LA   TO, RETTE. Meekly may my soul receive   ! All thy Spirit ]lath revealed; Tho u hast spoken: I believe, Tnough the oracle be sealed. Hunble as a little child, , W aned from the mother's breast, By no subtleties'beguiled, On thy faithful word I rest. ' Israel! now and evermore In the Lord Jehovah trust; Him in all his ways adore, Wise and wonderful and just." Without hesitation, he gave out the 105th selec- tion. At first his voice trembled slightly, when he began reading it, but recovering himself he went ;throughl it with the deepest fervor, and with an emphasis that gave the fullest expression to its meaning.  Many were deeply affected., Captain Holt told me many years afterwards that he wept like a child. After a slight pause, Augustus sang the first verse alone in a clear hearty voice, and then all repeated it together. Then a sweet female voice struck up the second verse. Victor had not rcouirage to look up, but he knew   it was Louise. She sang it in a minor key and with a most touch- ingI and tender pathos.- It required all Victor's self-contiol to restrain his emotions. Venturing to look up, however, when the company were, repeat- ing the verse with- her, he saw   that Deschamps' eyes were filled with ,tears.             l While the two last verses were being sung, he tried to busy himself ip finding his text and select- !    E VENING SER VICE.      141 ing the closing hymn, partly to conceal his emotions and partly to compose himself for the sermon. But he ,could not shutV his ears while Louise was singing the last verse alone. Her tone and expres- ;: sion seemed changed. They were no more plain- tive, but full of gladness and exultation, and the words seemed to flow forth from her lips like the first burst of melody that Ithe lark gives forth on its return to its northern home in spring-time. When an orator rises to speak, he can tell by the sensation that comes over him whether he will suc- ceed well or not. Victor felt strong, a pleasant emotion thrilled his limbs. It passed over his face like a summer's breath. It gave tone to his voice, loosed his tongue, and imparted activity and clear- ness to' every faculty of his mind. He felt no excitement, yet he knew that he was, inspired. I copy from his diary a brief epitome of his sermon: - "'God so loved the world.' Who so loved the world? Wer   e it some noble man, some great ben- efactor of our race, how even then the conscious- ness of being thus loved, how the nobility of such -an example, would thrill our breasts. The mother's love for her children is beautiful. What Wtould she not s'uffer for them? Still. more inspir- ing the patriot's/ love of country. For this how many have gladly died. But the most inspiring of all would be his who so loved the whole human race, all men with such devotion, that he gave his   "2     vICTOR LA TO URETTE. only-begotten Son to die for them. And to what sublime contemplations does this consciousness -lift our thoughts, that he, who is the omnipotent and eternal G-od, thus loved us. With what firm con- fidence, with what high hopes, with what pleasing anticipations, with what effort to realize in our- selves and in the world, his purposes in us, should it inspire. "Why did he so love us?   Because he is our Father., This renders our relations to him natural. It gives him authority over us, gives us the right of protection and support in him. It makes us members of his household, his own children by birth, heirs of his kingdom, and pCartakers with him of all his richdes, glory, and happiness. If this relation is maintained, his mansion is our home; and there, we live for ever, without labor, and 'with no anxiety for our daily'bread. We are obedient, yet without fear. ' Love casteth out fear.' There is no idea of dependence, beeause we are his children. There is no thought of tyranny or restraint, because he is our Fafther. Why is it, then, that our condition : here is so grievous? Why must we suffer and -loil and weep?  Why, because this natural relation of parent and child hath been sundered by our diso- bedience. We have gone away like the Prodigal from our Father's ho'use. Does he love us less? Does he feel less interest in us? Does he delilght in, our, sufferings? Listen,: God so loved thle wrld that he gave his only-begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, butt ! .   E ENING SERVICE.        143 have everlasting: life.' Mark this,-whosoever be- lieveth in him shall attain everlasting life. There is nothing said about any other belief. It is not faith in Romanism, nor in Protestantism, nor in any creed whatever, but in Him. Are all ,creeds therefore false? No,but unnecessary. And what matter whether they be true or false? This is the sole requisite of salvation, - that we'should believe in Chri'st.  "But what is implied by belief in him?  One may believe that he was the Son of God, that sal- vation is only attainable through him, and yet not be a believer in the true sense. The faith by which men are justified in him is not simply theo- retical, - not simply an assent to a certain defini- tion of his nature, nor to any formula of doctrines. St. iJames says the devils believe and tremble. Doubtless, Satan himself believed in him  in this sense, could have assented to the most Orthodox creed in the world, when he offered him all earthly kingdoms, if he would but fall down and worship him.  Faith in Christ is faith in him, and in no  ' person nor thing else.  And to be real it mnust be active.  It requires us to put forth effort to fulfil in ourselves and in the world his purpose.  It re- quires us to profess him before men and to labor for the good  of men.  Hence one cannot truly believe in Christ who is not willing to profess that belief in baptism, for baptism  is a profession of faith, and  not -a magical rite; and also to labor diligently, as he labored, for the good of men. ' I  ' *       '   *  , -  i   "4     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. "How simple, then, is the gospel scheme of sal- vation, requiring only a belief in Christ, - a belief that is professed before men, and that is fruitful in good works! Its purpose is Christ's purpose, -its effort is his effort, its spirit is hig spirit. ' Now the first thing to inquire is, not whether Romanism 'or Protestantism be true, but whether Christ be true. Lbok to no man-made creed or "formula of faith,? b t look to Christ and to his gospel. Was he not our friend and brother? Did he not desire to aid us? Did he not sympathize with our sufferings? Did he not do all that could be done for our good? , Look on his tears, they are shed for us I Behold his sufferings, he dies for sinners. Listen to his words: ' Come unto me all yethat labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.' 'Can we doubt that he was our friend? Nay, did he not verily believe that he had: the power to save us, if we would but come to Ihin? "This settled, that he was our, friend,' and that he verily believed that he could save us, next con- sider what were the evidences of his 'truth and power. What is this gospel he preached?  What is the example he set us? what his character and ability as contrasted with other men?  Has any person ever doubted that his gospel was the true rule of life? that it is immeasurably supe- rior to; any other system? . And, if .it be the true rule, why should any hesitate to adopt it? Has any other man ever displayed such wisdom, or put ' forth such efforts, or made such sacrifices for the ,   EVENING SER2VICE.       145 good of meen?  Was there ever a manhood so noble, a nature so sublime? Why, then, should any doubt his truth and power? With the exam- ple of such a life before us, with the inspiration of such a life within us, with such a  gospel to guide us, with such a friend to aid us, with such hopes and promises set before us, for shame that any soul should perish. "Again, fromn what are we saved, if saved from perishing? To what do we attain, if we attain everlasting life? No person living hath -yet sounded the depths of human suffering, nor has it yet entered into a'single heart what are the possi- bilities of happiness. And yet there is much of heaven and hell on earth.- The fact of, their exist- ence is established beyond all controversy by our own experiences, only we see nowhere here perfect ,happiness nor complete wretchedness.  Yet we know that whatever exists in part may'exist-in fulness; and hence from the fact that there are degrees of joy and suffering here, -we know that, these may exist hereafter immeasurably increased. And common sense and common experience. teach us that the direction in which we drift determines our destiny. We must grow better or worse, we must rise or fall. Every thing is controlled by fixed laws, either natural or moral or spiritual; and these laws we have no reason to suppose will or can be changed. Christ even did not claim the power to change the law of God. He says he came not' to destroy, but to fulfil the law. His 7        -, J  ?   "6    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. power to save was in his knowledge'and revelation of the laws of life. He claimed no miraculous gift, if by miracles is meant any thing contrary tdo law. He did no iniracles in this sense. He indeed exercised all power, but this power resulted fromn his knowledge of law and from the supremacy of mind over matter. iaw being eternal with God, it cannot be said that even Omnipotence is superior to law, unless we suppose that God is superior to himself. Omnipotence means perfect knowledge and control'of law through ewhich any thing can be accomplished. Now we say that Christ revealed the law of life, of spiritual life. Did he or did he not? 'If not, it has never been revealed.  "And finally, if Christ be true, it is necessary to believe in him, or we perish. Otherwise he had not come to save us from perishing. Think ye lie would have undergone such labors and sufferings, if our danger were not great, or if otherwise sal- vation were possible'? O dying soul, behold your Saviour I For the great love he bore us, he endured the agonies of Gethsemane and the cross, that we should not perish, but attain everlasting life. Hie has done -all that' could be done for us. Shall we do nothing for ourselves? He would not that any should perish, and yet he cannot save us unless we believe in him. The 'law of God is immutable: it cannot change, though all should perish." He continued at great length to enforce this idea that all had been done for our salvation that r' ,                      .t   EVENING SERVICE.        147 was possible even to an omnipotent God, and that only through the law of life revealed in Christ was it possible to be saved. "The fact," said he, " that God is omnipotent, perfect, and unchangeable, precludes the possibility of our salvation by any other miethod or means than by the operation- of those laws which' are eternal with him,r and revealed in Christ. Only finite and sinful beings can vio- late law. Yet men seem to think that the decision of our destiny rests withl him alone; but not so, - it rests with us. God has decided to save us, and for this purpose has sent his Son into the world. But, if we decide that we will not be saved, noth- in(g more can be done. Yet hi's mercy is unbounded, howheit that it cannot be exercised in violation of law. When he senlt his Son into the world, he exercised mercy. When he judges the world, as he is doing constantly in the operation of his laws, he exercises justice. Mercy precedes judgment: it cannot follow it. The. one seels to save us : the other is simply a question of guilt or innocence." When he was through, the' deep hush that per- vaded the assembly continued for soIne moments, so profound had been the impression produced by Ihis words and the, vehement earnestness of his manner. Not till he had given out the 139th    J hymn did the people- seem   to recover their con- sciousness. He read but two lines:- "Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let mei hide myself in thee."' All seemed to join in singing the noble hymn ' \  ,   "8   - 'VICTOR LA TOURETTE. with the most sincere and earnest devotion. The captain's polwerful voice, full of fervor and inspi- ration, rose above all the rest. The rou'gh sailors that were present became all aglow with enthu- siasmn ; and their voices rose so wild and high that those on deck, catching the words and inspiration, joined in orne by one till the -ship itself, as it rose and fell on he billows, seemed to feel the inspira- tion of the song. When the singing ,was through, the people again sat downl. Either they did not realize that the service was concluded, or iwere reluctant to depa rt.' Suddenly a movement was noticed near the door, and all eyes were instantly turned in that direction, - Garvey was on his feet. Aftelr a pause, in which he seemed to be adjusting his countenance in order to give it an expression of piety, he saidcl:- "I 'adn't hexpected ter take any part in this meetin'; but' I think I ort not ter keep silence at such er time. I 'av altiers stood up fur Christ since I was convarted, now mor'n forty year ago. An' wen I heered that pious 'ymn it made me think uv that time,--the joyfulest uv my life. But . don't think anybody can git religun, 'cept he 'av sound doctoring preached ter 'irm. Nor can anybody be saved, 'cept he 'av er change uv 'art. Ourl'arts is desputly wicked in ther natral state. 'Fore one gits er change uv 'art, he is prone ter evil, as ther sparks fly hupward.  O my himpenerttunt fren's, I entreat yer ter turn from yer wickedness and be convarted. The 'Oly Sperit ull not allers g         ,   .   E VENING SER VICE.       149 strive. Don't grieve 'im away. 'Member yer 'av got ter die; and then comes ther orful judgment, wen if yer names 'av niot ben writ in ther Lamb's ' book uv life yer'll be plunged inter er lake uv fire and briimstun, and be tormented fur ever an' dever.  I war sorry ter heer ther preacher say that all that war necessary war to 'fess Christ, hand be bap" tizedcl, hand ter do good works. That ha'n't sound doctoring.  'Tis as bad as ther Catlverlics. Yer carn't be saved by such doctoring.  Yer must 'av er change uv 'art, - that's wat saves yer, an' 'ta'n't nothin' else. Good works' a'n't uv no use. They 'ur wicked 'for yer 'av er bchange uv 'art. One carn't -do nuthin' 'imself. Ther Sperit dodes all ther work. It's wicked ter strive ter save yerself. Wen ther Sperit strives, it's orful. I 'member well wen, he strived with me. I couldn't eat nothin' fur a week 'ardly. Hanl jUist 'foire I got religun,. I lost my senses, and came like er corpse "- By this time there was so much confusion that Garvey could hardly be heard. Some of the sailors laughed, some jeered and groaned,  Still there was great curiosity to hear him. The captain, however, could hardly restrain his impatience.  "That's jolly," said Gus, slapping his knees. Mrs. Win- slow was disgusted. Alarie snickered. At last Garvey sat down, after warning his "himpenertunt fren's" of the lake of " brimstun," especially those who believed in unsound "doc- toring,'" or that jeered at his words. iHe had no sooner seated himself than another.   150    VICTOR LA TOURiETTE. speaker took the floor, evidently a man of some education. ; His manner was confident and super- cilious, and his tone blatant and pretentious, though he affected a scholarly style andc polish. Ite was a young man of about Victor's age, and as after- wards appearedl was an attache of the American Legation in Paris. He began by saying that he had understood this was to be a free meeting in which all could speak, and he would be pardoned if he offered a few remarks. He was a native of New England, and was proud to be a descendait of the Puritans who- wtere the champions, alike of religious and political freedom. He was a Calvinist, and could not indorse all that had been said by the first speaker, who- he thought had not carefully examined his Bible. He was much shocked at the idea put forth, that an omnipotent God could not save any man except in accordance with law. This would make the Supreme Being subject to law. The truth wAs, God did in all things as he chose. We had no right to inquire why he did so and so. '"Hath not the potter power over the clay?" Before the World was made, God had in his inscru- , table wisdom ordained certain ones to be saved and the. rest to be' damned. Those who were to be saved were duly called: the Holy Spirit strove with and converted them, and kept them from falling., The rest would perish, however great efforts they put forth to be saved. He then quoted many passages in the Bibl6 l '     \   E VENING SERVICE.       1 51 to prove the doctrine of predestination, and also argued from. God's foreknowledge to prove thlat ;it must be true. He agreed with the last speaker that it was the Holy Spirit that converted the soul; and not Christ; but he did not believe in free grace. Finally he declared he was ready to argue the question with any person, and challenged any one to discuss it with him.  - Garvey wished to explain. He lived in Detroit where the Puritans and Methodists were joined in one congregation. As for himself, he was really a Calvinist. "I b'leeve," said he, 1" in 'lection, hand 'tis er most comfurtin' doctoring ter me." Reuben Smith -for that was the attache's name--accepted his explanation most graciously. He then made some severe comments on the Meth- odists, whom he regarded as religious enthusiasts. He was sorry, too, that the Episcopal prayer-book should have been used in the service. He thought they were to have a Protestant service. However, it made no difference he supposed, only he as a Protestant wished to clear his skirts of all respon- sibility. By being present he might have seemed to countenance its use. In fact, he hitnted that it was a great piece of imposition to introduce it sur- reptitiously into a Protestant meeting. They, had had one Catholic service already, and he had no idea that another was to be introduced. As' for himself, he preferred to have the Catholic service entire than one so diluted and heretical as this had been.    152     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. The people listened to his remarks in silent amaze- ment, though the more intelligent understood as soon as he began to speak his sophomorical character, and : were rather inclined to laugh at the effort he had put forth to display his learning and bring himself into notice. All eyes were turned on Victor, ex- pecting he would make some reply; but he deter- mined to keep silence. A sailor raised a faint hiss, which threatened to become a storm, at which Mr. Smith began to blaze with anger. The cap- tain sprang -to- his feet, and, waving his hand to enjoin silence, Ispoke with some excitement.! He said he desired all who wished to have an oppor- tunity of speaking; but order Inust be maintained. The last speaker had transcended the comnmoni rules of courtesy, to say the least, in the manner in which he had alluded to the use of the Episco- pal service. If they had a service of any kind, it was not expected that it would suit all; but he was confident that the one they had had Nwas agree- able to most of those present. If the gentleman had not liked it, he was not boundc to remain. And as for the differences of belief, he did not know nor care. But this was plain, that until the matter was introduced the effect of the service had been good. He had himself enjoyed it and profited by it. But now the good effect had been dissipated, and the meeting turned into disoider. He was not himself a religious manl though he had of late become interested in the subject of religion. One had said that there could be no conversion except   E VENING SERVICE.      158 sound doctrines were preached; and another that all would go to hell, in spite of any thing they could do, unless picked out beforehand to be saved. Sulch doctrines might be sound, but he did not think they could convert him; and, judging from appearances, he did not think it very likely they I would convert anybody, if he was any judge of   ' iwrhat conversion meant. But perhaps he was not one of' the elect, arid so could not judge. He was quite willing, however, tha-t -the matter should be: discussed, if it was done in courteous language. Mr. Smith rose instantly, when the, captain sat down. His tone was somewhat subdued, as he had been a little frightened by the storm that had been raised against him. He said he hoped the captain-would pardon him, if he had used discour- teous language; but he had been trained in a school that could not tolerate superstition or false doctrine. His ancestors had fled away from the oppression of the English Church, and had sought an asylum in the Newr World, where they could worship God in purity and truth. No wonder, then, that he had felt indignant; that upon an American ship he had been compelled to listen to what he regarded as gross superstition, and to whatf any sound theologian must regard as wicked heresies.                   ' The captain here interrupted him: he did not know why the gentlemaii should claim the exclu- sive right of- representing the American people, 7*                 .   154     VYCTOR LA TOURETTE. "I would have you know'," said Augustus, springing to his feet, " that there are more Ameri- cans than yourself aboard. And all are not such sneaking cowards as I know you are. You have insulted my mother and sister, who are Episco- palians; and if you don't apologize, I will "-- Here Gus started forward in great fury, bent on inflicting summary vengeance upon the offending attache, wlo, seeing the infuriated young man approaching, and deeming that discretion was the better part lof valor, precipitately retreated. All was in an uproar. The captain caught hold of Gus to restrain him. The women screamed. The sailors jeered the fleeing attach6. The occasion again brought Garvey into prominence, and devel- oped his true character.' Squaring himself off in the most approved pugilistic style, he called out:- "If any iv yer wants ter fight, jest come 'ere. These 'ere paws ha'n't very light. They brings ther juice every -time." But the captain soon, enforced order. Garvey, however, was not subdued till the order was given tto place him under arrest, when he subsided. The company scattered; and a reacltion. of feeling set- ting in, as was natural, when the ridiculousness of the scene that had. just transpired came to be appreciated, all were in'a laughing humor. xGar- vey stalked around on deck, evidently regarding himself as a hero, and cracking coarse jokes with the rougher class of passengers and sailors. ; Louise and Victor did not appear on deck. Reuben Smith   E VENVING SER VICE.     155 soon recovered his equanimity, and seemed as self- satisfied as ever. Gus-was a little ashamed of the part he had acted.     , "You were very foolish, Augustus," said his father, "to show such temper. -Mr. Smith's lan- guage was rather cutting, but there was no occa- sion for such a flare-up." "Why, my dear, how can you say that?" said Mrs. Winslow. "I think it was really very chiv- aliic in Augustus; and I trust he will always be ready to protect his mother and sister from insults. I don't wonder his French blood was stirred up."' ( "Pshaw!" was the professor's only response. "I'll bet, Gus," said Marie, "you wouldn't have struck him."     *  "What'll you bet?" said Gus, shalking his head menacingly. Marie laughed derisively. "Don't you think, -M. Deschamps," inquired Mrs. Winslow, " that Gus did just right?" "We can't judge young-men by the same rules that we do men of my age. I certainly admired Augustus' courage, and sympathized most heartily v with him in his desire to castigate such imperti- nence," replied Deschamps. At this moment, much to their astonishment, Mr. Smith himself approached them, in company with the captain. Calling Gus aside,- the latter said: "Lieutenant Winslow, permit me to intro- duce Mr. Reuben Smith, attached of the American Legation at Paris." *         .    15 6    VICrTOR LA TOURETTE. "I come," said Mr. Smith, blandly, " to apolo- gize for mny unintentional rudeness to-day. I cer- tainly was not aware that any ladies present were Episcopalians, or I should not have spoken as I did.". Gus shook his proffered' hand heartily. "Oh, that was all a joke! Don't mention it. Noth- ing but a misunderstanding anyhow,- that's all. Father thinks- II was a fool to get excited, and I guess he was about right." "No, you did just right. I should have felt and done jlust as you did. La Tourette made the whole -trouble." Then, lowering his voice, "I nmeant what I said for him. What do you think of him, Lieutenant?  Did you ever see such a  i conceited fellow?" "Oh, La Tourette didn't mean any thing wrong." "Well, let's take a drink ltogether. Captain, will you drink with us?" "Excuse me," said the captain, gruffly, turning away anclleaving them abruptly. The two young men sauntered off together towards the bar.' Inside they found Garvey, and a few rough fellows whom he was treating. "Glad ter see yer, gents. Wark hup, hand take sumthin, won't yer?" "No, beg pardon," said Smith. "We came in for a private drink." Speaking aside to Gus, while their drinks were being prepared, Smith said: 1"We have lto humor such fellows. He is a rich trader from Detroit. I saw him often at the  \ * - "  fj      .  '   ' EVENING SERVICE.       157 Legation, and he is really a good fellow, though a little roulgh." Just then one of the men present let slip an oath. "I are sorrer ter heer yer swar, nabor," said Garvey, bringing his glass down a little frolm his mouth, and liclding his lips with his great tongue that protrudeld from his mouth like that of an ox. "I never svar. It ar'n't gentermanly. It' are brakin' ther kermandments." Then turning towards Sm'ith, he continued, "L Wonder 'ow Law- teret feels ater^"the squelchin',we gir 'im. He's too self-ric1erse, hand 'e a'n't got any religun er tall." Smith smiled, but made no reply. "You are a lieutenant, I presume, in the United States Ar'my? he said, addressing Gus. "I have my commission, but have not yet seen active service. I only graduated last fall." "I I can help you in the matter of promotion, I should be glad to do so. My uncle, Deacon Smith, is a man of great influence. By the way, who was that tall, elderly man, with a pretty daughter? or at least I suppose she was his daughter." "I knows um," said Garvey, who had been listening to the young men as they stood leaning on the counter. "They'er fum our town. They'er name's Dershawm.   Hee's er lawyer, hand er mighty mean man. He's -er inferdel, hand his darter is er stuck hup Catherlic,"      .  . .     ..   158    VICTOR LA TOUSETTE. Gus reddened, and Smith cast a deprecating glance at Garvey. "Howsomever, I ha'n't nuthin' tickler ter say gin the gal," he continued. "But there'll be trouble iin Dertrawit 'fore long, if Dershawm don't stop er meddlin' 'bout the niggers and the Injuns." "Is he wealthy?" inquired Smit'h.  ' "Wal, I s'pose 'e 'as some money. But I guess no great shakes. He spends purty much all 'e gits on the niggers." -                !  i    SHAKING OFF THE VIPER.      159 ? CHAPTER IX. SHtAKING OFF THE VIPER. W HEN the two young men emerged from the bar-room, Smith said, ' I have a favor to ask of you, Lieutenant, and that is an introduction to your mother and sister. I feel that I owe them an apology, and: would like an opportunity of mak- ing one." "Oh, certainly, I shall be glad to introduce you. Suppose I do it now before we go down to supper. There they are yonder." Gus felt some trepida- tion, as he and his companion approached the group in which his mother and sister were stand- ing; for he felt uncertain howthey would receive his new friend, in relation to whom they had ex- pressed so much resentment and disgust. But they received him with politeness, if not cordiality. The professor was more than' ordinarily affable. Deschamps and Louise, however, to whom  Gus -also introduced him as they were standing by, bowed coldly. Victor ;was not present.   : "I trust," said Smith, bowing awkwardly, but without any marked embarrassment, "Fyou ladies will forgive me for my unfortunate mistake to-day. I really, ladies, did not know you were Episco-   1UV i   V1LT1UR LA  'UUv^I eI. T    . '. palians, or, believe me, I would not have said any thing to wound your feelings. Indeed, I have great respect for Episcopalians generally. It 'was only in reference to theman who read the service that my words were intended to apply, - crtainly not to so respectable, and, I may add, so distin- guished a family." Deschamps and Louise turned away abruptly. Mrs. Winslow was a little embarrassed for an answer. She thought Mr. Smith must be, of good family or he would not have been an attache of the American: Legation, and so did not wish to treat him rudely. iBesides, she really was quite flattered by 'the compliment paid to her family. "No apology is necessary, Mr. Smith," said she. "' If you and my son are reconciled, we can have no longer anv cause for resentment." Having once got started, she went on with her natural volubility. What made the Americans so prejudiced against the Church? Even her hus- band was prejudiced. But she thought it was Ithe true Church. fIt was founded by the Apostles. She herself had been a Catholic till she was mat- ried, when she went with her husband, though 3he never could feel satisfied in the Congregational Church. It did not seem like worship at all, unless , Liturgy 'was used. So she began to go'to to the Episcopal Church. She found, too, such nice peo- ple there. "Why, Mr. Smith,"  said she enthu- 3iastically, "some of the first families in Boston belong to the Episcopal Church." .   SHAKIA'G OFF THE VIPER.     161 "I can well believe that from what I see before me," - and Reuben gave another of his graceful bows.                . ' 'They all went down to supper together; and    ; Reuben seated himself between the professor and Deschamps, - the seat that had beQen-eft vacant for Victor, who had not yet made his appearance. "I am delighted," said Reuben, "to be among Alnericans again, and educated people too."  The professor began to grow a little reserved.  ' "Did I understand that you reside in Boston, sir"  "I am not exactly a resident of Boston, though I have spent a good deal of time there with my uncle. Perhaps you know him,--Deacon Smith, of the Congregational Church. Hle has a whole- sale store on WVashington Street. He is one 'of the leading business men of the city, and is very prominent in the Church." The professor nodded. He had heard of Deacon Smith, but had no personal acquaintance with him. "You are not a graduate of Harvard, I presume. I do not remember having seen you in any of my classes."  "Unfortunately not. IMy father is a merchant in Connecticut, and sent me to Yale. Perhaps it was best I, should go ,to Yale, as I purpose enter- tering   the ministry," and  Reuben flushed with pride when he announced this; "but I should have liked to have gone to Harvard, the society of Boston is so superior.  But my uncle procured   162    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. me a situation in the French Legation, whichi has bru-ght tme on familiar and intimate terms with some of the most distinguished people of America and Europe."                ' So then the standingu of Reuben in society was made plain. And I may add that his statement was not in the main untruthful, only colored by his fancy and kaspirations. He omitted to state of course that his father was a small shop-lkeeper in the country, who retailed a few dry goods, gro- ceries, candies, and patent medicines, and also sup- plied his customers with what in those days were regarded as not less necessities of life, - gin and tobacco. But the population was- so sparse and the trade so light that the back part of his store had been converted into a shop in which 'he em- ployed the intervals between waiting upon his customers -in mending boots and shoes; while, for ,the sake of a necessary economy, he occupied the upper story of his store as a residence. This was not dishonorable, but it was unnecessary that Reuben shouldl state it. Nor did he recount his struggles with poverty in order to obtain his edu- cation: how he had been partly supported by charity, been employed at times in a menial capac- ity in hiss uncle's store, and had in vacations sold religious books from house to house in order to turn an honest penny to defray his next term's expenses, though all this would have been in the highest degree creditable to him. Nor did he say that his uncle had never admitted him to the inti-   SHA KING OFF THE VIPER.     163 macy of his family, while he was doing the rough york of the store. True, his uncle had somewhat relented since his graduation, and lhad procured, him, as he was a good penmllan, a position as copy- ,ist in the French Legation, thoughl he had never once invited him to his palatial residence, nor pre- sented, him to his daughter, Reuben's cousin Betsy, and his uncle's only child. But Reuben was by nature irrepressible; and, not being .endowed with sensibilities particularly refined and delicate, he never for a moment lost confidence in himself nor in his destiny. Like many theological students, he was somewhat con- ceited, and was very ambitious of rising in: the vrorld. The speech he had made after the evening service was chiefly an effort to bring himself into notice, and to display -the natural and acquired gifts he felt sure were pre-eminent in him. In- deed, he believed himself a genius, and destined for a high position in the Church. He even thought it possible that he might some day be addressed as 'Doctor Reuben Smith," and preside over- the great congregation of -which his uncle was a mag-. na pars. He dreamed too-and what theologi- cal student has' not had this dream?--of being called to a city church as soon as he was through the seminary, and then marrying into a rich and prominent family. When, therefore, he found that the Winslows were, a prominent family of Boston, and that he had unwittingly given them offence, he was led, to   164     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. pursue the course he did. He worshipped wealth and respectability; and to obtain a hig(h position in the world had really --though perhaps uncon- sciously- been the inspiration of his efforts to obtain an education. Not but that he was really pious, in the common acceptation of that term; for he lad unusually early " met with a chanre," vas given, when} quite young, to reading "Pilgrim's Progress," and other works of standard piety. PIe had even, according to his mother's testimony, "devoured ' tracts, and had delighted in distrib- uting them by the way as he travelled from house to house, inl vacations, obtaining subscriptions for family Bibles and commentaries. But, as I before said, he was gifted with an irrepressible spirit, and which, in him at least, was not inharmonious with piety, but rather its encouragement and support. In fact, no one at that time could get along well in the world without being pious. This was essen- tial to success in almost every calling. Indeed, the more one was endowed with piety, the higher might he aspire; and so it came to be regarded as a token of success, if not of real genius, when early displayed, just as much as a poetical or mechanical talent. So --far as regards the "inward call" 'to the ministry, he was perfectly satisfied. He had experienced it unimistakably. Perhaps his religious tastes, combined with his- desire to take a high position in the world, had really determined his choice of a profession. More likely, however, the ministry was the only profession in which so awk- t   SHAKING OFF THE VIPER.      165 ward a boy could hope to succeed; but, however that may be, when required to rehearse the evi- dences of his "inward call," he recitedc them in the usual form. Nor would I affirm .that he did not think he had been called of the Holy Ghost, though it is not likely the call would have been lieelecl, had it not been, in accordance with his inclinations. True, it could not be expected, now that the days of miracles 'have gone by, or at least supposed to have gone by, that he should have heard a voice saying, 'c Follow me," or seen, as Paul did, a vision in the heavens; though I have seen some ministers--and so indiffer- ent ones, too, that I could not otherwise imag- ine what motive could have led them into the profession - who, boasted having actually expe- rienced calls quite as miraculous; but at least we should expect tlfat one who assumes the ministry of Christ would be imbued in some degree with his spirit, cnd annimated witlh his purpose. ReUben Smith had no such spirit nor purpose. Still, I say he may have tholught he was called because he was pious, and because he'wanted to be, a minis- ter; though he never would have thought of enter- ing the ministry, were it not-esteemed in the world an honorable calling, nor, when in it, would such a man be likely to study Christ's will as much as the popular will. He was incapable of braving, public opinion in condemnation of -any wrong,- and. still' less of questioning the truth of 'any tenet of the creed upon which he might depend for liveli-   1366    VCTOR-LA TOURETTE. hood and promotion. Yet I would not single him out for condemnationl; nor would I condemn the ministry as a body, f(r most are obliged to drift with the popular tide or starve. Nor do I regard professed Christians as generally hypocrites; for most think they are approved by God. But, in fact, the churches of our day, are as different in their spirit and purpose from the Church of Christ as the religion of the Jews in our Saviour's tiune was from that promulgated from Mt. Sinai. While I write, the "Evangelical Alliance " is deploring the spread of infidelity, and attempting to account therefor in every way but the true, one; but the wonder is that there is so little infidelity in the world, therie is so little of Christ's spirit in the churches. lenldo not love, Christ less. He never was indeed loved so much as he is now;: but theyicannot love what is 1now called the Church; it is so unlike its' founder. Still it is capable of reform; and when it does become Catholi6 once more in spirit' and practice, as it^ inevitably- must if it survives the progress of the age, it will awlake to a new life. "              l "I suppose of course you are acquainted 'ith Presilent Dwight," said Reuben. " think Ikave heard him,' speak of you."' The professor nodded stiffly.  "What did you think of the sermon we were compelled to listen to this afternoon? It seemed tot me very unsound, - really shocking, in fact. Of course I do not refer to' the Episcopal service,   SHA4KING' OFF T:E   VIzPER.   167- for that was very impressive; but the preaching was of a very dangerous character, no better than Unitarianism. I am sure it could not have been Episcopal doctrine."           , I-He spoke in so loud a tone of voice as to attract the attention of the whole table. The professor was uneasy. He had already penetrated the soph- omorical character of Smith, and was now disposed to repel his advances. But with his habitual cau- tion he did not wish, to offend him, nor make public his own private religious views; so he re- plied evasively:-- "I presume M. La Tourette's views would--not be regardled as strictly Orthodox by some. I sup- pose you have been trained in the Jonathan Ed- wards school. M. Deschamps, will you remain long in Boston before going West?" "You should stop there by- all means," broke in Reuben, not giving Deschamps time to reply,  "Iong enough to see the place,-- especially Har- vard College.  Boston is a charming place. The society "is scarcely inferior to that of Paris; and what makes it particularly attractive is its literary culture."  Then turning to, the professor, he con- tined, "Yes, I belong to the Jonathan Edwards school. I consider him the greatest theologian the World has ever produced sincelthe days of John Calvin." The professor paid no heed to his remark, but still looked towards Deschamps for a  reply to his question.     ,*   168  '   VICTOR LA TOURETTE. ' I thinkl we shall remain there a few days after' landing; that is, if the people are not tdo refined- for a backwoodsman like'e me, or too Orthodox to tolerate a sceptic." Then jocosely, "I believe you burn heretics in Boston,-certainly' witches,-- and I fear it will not be safe for M. La Tourette and me to tarry long." The professor smiled, and a slight titter ran around the table; but Reuben did not interpret it. At that moment Victor and the captain entered. This was. the first time the former had made his appearance since the afternoon service. After any unusual excitement, it was always a great relief to him to be alone. On this occasion, as soon as the door of his state-room closed behind him, his strength gave way, and he sank utterly unnerved into his chair. The glass opposite disclosed a face that startled, him with its pallor. "I cannot en- 'dure this," he whispered. "Such excitements as I have passed through this afternoon!" and the tears started to his eyes. Thbough never betraying in public. any weakness, Iwhen- alone he 'was often childish. He had a habit of talking to himself,- "thinking aloud," - and frequently wrote in his diary in this mood. At this time he suffered the greatest mental anguish, and his heart was filled with bitterness. "Oh, if I were only home again! I did not dream that there were such people in the world. But I like the captain, the Deschamps, and the Winslows. Go out on 'the borders to preach? Fool! But I will-- I must. I am good   SHAKI NG. OFF THE VIPER.      169 for nothing else. Convert such people as Garvey 'and Smith to Catholicity? might as well ask a dog not to bark, or a serpent not to hiss. Do they really - think they are right? H ypocrites! they cannot think Godc createSl men to damn them. Of course they are the elect, specially created. to be saved. A good' illustration of the CIlmTrech as it is, the scenes of to-day. And it is just that way everywhere,-strife and hatred, and all about doctrines." Then he sat long in silence, reviewing the scenes through which he had passed. Gradually lbe came to himself, and his spirits reacted. "It was quite' encouraging, indeed. The effect was all I could have desired till Garvey spoke. I hate such cant; but perhaps he was sincere. How sweetly Louise sung! What a beautiful soul she must have! 'What tender and passionate expression I But I never can ask any woman to marry me. It would be wicked- to tie such a delicate nature to so weiak a one as mine. I tl!nk I would like to be an Episcopalian; -but I never can subscribe those articles." Here a gentle' knock was given at his door. Instantly he recovered his usual self-possession. Opening, he was rejoiced to see the captain. "Comein. I am glad to see you," he said cheer- fully. The captain's face at first, looked anxious. Thougl as nrllike as two persons could well be in perso nal qppearance, age, and experience, they were yet very congenial,- and were instinctively l             . *  t,*-'       *    70O    -VICTOR ,Z  TOURETTE.  drawn to each other. IThe captain fully under- stood Victor's sensitive nature, and missing him on deck had divined the cause of his retirement, and so had come to cheer him up. They sat long together, talking chiefly on relig- ious subjects, until they seemed to become of one mind and heart in Christ. When the two appeared at the supper-table, besides the captain's usual seat there -was but one, vacant chair, and that was nearly opposite Smith, and between Garvey and little Amie, who sat beside her mother. Amie was delighted when she saw   Victor. "Here is a seat," she called out, "here with me end mamma. He's coming!" she exclaimed, clap- ping her hands in high glee as Victor approached. All laughed- except Garvey, who groaned deri- sively, though not loud enough to attract at- tention. But there was hardly room. "This big man must move," said Amie. Garvey pretended not to hear. "Will you please allow me to sit here, sir?" said Victor, politely.  Garvey started and looked up into his face with an insulting stare; and then, as if not compre- hending what was wanted, uttered 'a surprised "Eh ?" " Will you move, sir ?" said Victor, with a firm voice.  Garvey started up in pretentious haste, and  SHA'KING OFF THE VIPER.     171 hitched away as far as he could get,-and seemed anxious to get farther. One or two weak people tittered at this stupid insult; but Victor paid no heed to it, and began chatting withl Amie. The captain's face was livid with rage; but, see- ing the indifference of Victor, and not wishing to have another scene at the table, her restrained him- self. Nearly all were indignant; and from sym- pathy some strove to say a pleasant word to Victor. Amie's mother had enjoyed the afternoon service so; much. ,Mrs. Winslow thought sh6 had never heard the Episcopal service rendered more im- pressively. "How did you like the sirging?" said Gus. ';We did not have much time to get it up; but we did our best.-" {/   All exclaimed together that it was grand. And then Victor told how surprised he was when he heard them begin the first chant. As for the sing-i ing, he had never been so transported in his life,- especially when the sailors joined in the last hymn. The professor also expressed himself much pleased with the singing. But no person said any thing about the sermon. The captain and 'Deschamlps said nothing," not having recovered from the indignation that Garvey had excited sufficiently to speak with calmness. The priest sat at the remote end of the table, and took no part in the conversation.  "Don't you like the Episcopal service,' M. La Tourette?" inquired Mrs. Winslow.'   172  i  VICTOR LA TOURETTE. "Indeed I do; and I am very much indebted to you for suggesting its use." "Oh, I kneiv you would like it I do believe you will be an Episcoptalian yet. ' Reuben had kept silence for some time; but his irrepressible nature now found an opportunity oft expression. Though he had not been introduced to Victor, he now addressed him in a patronizing and ironical tone,: - "I presume, sir, you have notpursued a regular theological course?  Victor looked a little surprised, but answered politely, '*I studied, sir, with the view of taking orders in the Church'l of Rome." "Yer might then," said Garyey, "be er 'pisco- pal well ernuff, I s'pose. Guess ther just 'bout erlike.' "A great difference, a very great difference," exclaimed Reuben, with a peculiar assumption of wisdomn n his tone. "I should hardly think, Mr. excuse me, but your name has escaped me,"- bowing with a disagreeable and almost offensive effort at politeness,- "should hardly think your theological views would accord with those of the Episcopalians." ;Then turning to the Winislows, "Episcopalians-and I think I am 'familiar with their doctrines - are' Protestants, and strictly or- thodox. Some of our standard works in theology, such ,as Scott's Commentaries, -a very profound expositfon, - were written by Episcopalians." As no person made any reply, Reuben enlarged on the Av , . . I   SHAKING OFF THE: VIPER.      173 merits of ' that remarkable work," and then began to displa'y his school-boy acquirements in theology in relation to the history and doctrines of the Epis- copal Chprch, wheen he was interrupted by Amie, who had vainly endeavored to engage Victor's attention, he being too polite to talk with her while another was speaking. "What makes the man talk so much, mamma?" said she, her patience being quite exhausted. - Politeness could not prevent the company from laughing. Reuben flushed slightly, but tried to laugh with the rest. Amie was frightened at the tumult she had raised and the chidings of her mother, and began to cry. Her mother was about to hurry het away, but she clung to Victor, who had taken her in his t l'1ai. '    ,        -  "G'ess yer'll 'av' ter farthe' that are bhild," said Garvey, breaking into a coarse laugh. "Hand it seems ter come kinder nat'ral ter yer. Mebbe ther's good reason fur't," again breaking into his characteristic and peculiarly offengive and disa- greeable laugh. The face of IAmie's nother. crimsoned; and she hastened away with her little boy, leaving Amie in Victor's arms. , The captain had already gone. So coarse an insult was intolerable; but Victor ! for the moment could not. notice it on account of the presence of ladies. His fiery nature was, how- ever, fully aroused; He took little Amie on deck, :,   174     V CTOR 'LA TOURETTE.' and, as soon at he could disengage himself from her, started in quest of Garvey. He was no longer himself. A- new spirit ,was developed in him, so fierce and terrible, though for the moment held in check,- that it imparted an almost superhuman- strength to his delicate frame. He knew, indeed, that he was passionate; but his associations had never brought-hiWm in contact with such natures as Garvey's, and the fierceness of his spirit had never before been so aroused. But Deschamps called after him in a low voice. "Louise wishes to speak with you,'. he said; and then added, 1 I hope you will take no notice of Garvey. He is so low that an insult from him will only exalt you in the estimation of all whose opinion is' of any value. I have myself suffered a good deal from him; but it was rather an advan- tage than otherwise. Let the captain deal with him now." Victor hesitated, but finally turned back with Deschamps. Louise looked tip, with a pale face, when he reached her side, but with an expression in her beautiful eyes that quenched instantly the fierce flame that burned in his own. He had not seen this expression before, though he saw it often afterwards, in his moments of trial, 'when nothing- else could subdue his wild passions, or inspire with patience his strangely sensitive nature. 'It seemed to express the language of inspiration, -"And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but' the greatest of these is charity." It saved his life g.   -SHA KING OFF THE' VIPER.     17; from utter wreck. Without it, so passionate a nature could never have, struggled with the igno. rance, brutality, and selfishness of a sinful world. and finally triumphed. It was like the still, smal] voice -te spirit presence- that subdued the fierce passions of idolatry-hating Elijah, soothed his soul by the murmuring waters of Cherith touched his lips with live coals in the wilderness, and transported his impetuous spirit to heaven ir a chariot of fire. "It is as I thought," she said, letting her eyes rest for a moment in his with their full expression and then turning them away with a,.glance of min. gled reproof and sorrow. "Surely, you would not wish rile to submit t such brutality," said Victor, in a subdued voice but which trembled with emotion. Louise did not reply. "Would you?" he persisted. Still no answer. Deschamps had gone away. The sun was set. ting, and the sky and ocean were, ablaze wit} golden light. He sat down, and the two looked out upon the tinted clouds and glowing waters for a: time ii silence.                   '  "How beautiful!" said Louise at last. "Yes, it is beautiful; but it is followed by dark ness. Even now the rainbowTs are fading, and i will soon be night," replied Victor, sadly. E "But it will not be very dark. Look back: the   , 176    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. moon is rising. We would be tired of rainbows if we were compelled to see them all the time. The moonlight is just as beautiful. Don't you think that in heaven there will be shifting scenes,--sun- light, moonlight, and twinkli g stars?"  Oh, I don't know! I sometimes think heaven is but a dream," said Victor, striving in his sombre- mood to resist the cheerful influence of Louise's words, but feeling happy in spite of himself. But she seemed saddened by :his reply. "Do you really think," she said in almost a whisper, "that there is any doubt of there being a happier world than this?" Victor felt ashamed. "No doubt at all," he replied, smiling. "My words were but the ex- pression of my ill-temper. Those rainbow clouds reveal possibilities of beauty more glorious than the imagination can picture; and every possibility mrust be a reality somewhere, because of the limit- lessness of existence. If there is any thing, there, must be more from whence it 'was derived. Every source must be unlimited; for otherwise there would be' a beginning, which is impossible." "Is not God the beginning? and surely he is not impossible."  "Oh, yes! in one sense he is; 'that is, if we mean by beginning the existence and source. But he has himself no beginning ; anad s0 what comes from him--and every thing is from him -has no be- gillnnng in substance." Victor's thoughts were too philosophical for , i A ;5    SrAKIJNG OFF F THE VIPER.    1" Louise; and her mind turned to other reflec- tions.-  i "You did not tell me what you thought of heaven, whether there are any, changes there such as we see here. See! the clouds are getting dark now, and the moon and stars are shining." "Heaven is just like earth, or as earth would be if there were no sin. All things are one. There can be no more differing plans of existence than there can be more than one God." "Then there are there sun, moon, and stars?" "Yes: what we shall call by these names, and what wilill in reality have thel same relations to us."               - "But there will be no night there, so the Bible says." "No spiritual darkness, but a change correspond- ing to our natural night." "And music, and birds, and flowers, do you think "  "Yes." "And trees, and green fields, and running wa- ters?" l "Yes: every thing good, beautiful, and true." "Btt where are they? why cannot we see them now?" "Oh, I fear you are the doubter, after all," said Victor, laughing. "No: I have no doubts; but I often wonder what heaven is and where it can be."  i "It is near God . Place and nature and isub-   ,f         - '  }  * f 178     VMCTOR LA- TOURETTE. stance are determined by their relations to him. All space is full: there is no vacuum." ' Why cannot we see more?" "Because we are finite and imperfect. As there are infinite conditions visible, so also are thereinfi- nite conditions invisible. What we see here are forms of every other condition. All things here are the embodiments of fornms in another world. Otherwise they could not exist here. You!see my form here, but my spirit, is not of this world. Was it not Milton that wrote "' What if earth be but the shadow of heaven, Things in the one each to the other like, More than on earth is thought '?" "I wish I could lobok into the spirit world," said Louise, dreamily.: , "Since mother died, I have no fear of spirits; and should she come now and sit belside me, I should not tremble. Sometimes I think I do feel her presence. Do you have any fear of meeting the dead?" "No fear, and yet an instinctive dread of the supernatural; and I us(d to be afraid of meeting ghosts. The faces of the dead, too, lying in their coffins used to fill me with shudderings:. but I look on them  now unmoved; for I realize that they are but clay. And perhaps, if I had lost to my life so dear a friend as a mother, I should feel no dread of meeting spirits." "' You have a mother, then?" "Yes: both my parents are living.", "And you left them to become a missionary in   SH .AKING OFF THE VIPER.     17c a foreign land?" and Louise turned her face, full of the most lively sympathy, upon him. i "Yes," he replied sadly; Abut I fear I have been following a mere illusion, one which the experiences of to-day have well-nigh dispelled." ". Dispelled? You cannot mean what you say." "Yes, I do. Had your father not called after me, I should have ever after been ashamed to raise my voice for Christ, and should have abandoned for ever what I had fondly dreamed was the mis- sion to which God had called me. So weak is my self-control, and which my first conflict with the world has so plainly disclosed, that I fear I never can fulfil that mission. Besides, I find that it is not possible to convince men of the truth." ' "O M. La Tourette!'" exclaimed Louise, with i glowing face, and in tones of passionate- entreaty, "do not let such a thought ever enter your mind again. Have you left your father -and mother, whom I know you love better than your life, for the cause of Christ, and to preach his truth in a foreign land, and are now ready to turn back for the little trials you have experienced to-day? Think what Christ suffered,-mocked, derided, ' buffeted in every way, even while dying on the cross. Surely your trials cannot compare with i his. And he was not less sensitive than you. Your mission has opened gloriously. You have already rescued two noble souls; and God sent you to save them. To-day is the happiest of my life; for I know that my father, for whose converm o.   180    VICTOR LA TO URE 7rE. '  sion I have never ceased to hope and pray, is on the threshold of a new life; aild nothing now could shake the faith of the captain in the truth of Christ. How can you be discouraged? Your infirmities are not greater than Paul's; and yet he was permitted to glory concerningthem -" and Louise pressed her hanids to her face, overcome with the intensity of her emotions. From that moment Victor's purpose knew no shadow of turning, though it was many years, and only after gi eat struglings in spirit, before he attained a complete'mastery over his,.passions, and ; could realize that perfect peace whereby one may glory even in tribulations. He felt that he could safely walk through the Mfiery furnace, or sleep in the lion's den without danger; that he could shake off every serpent that should fasten upon him, and receive no harm. 'But for a tim'le he essayed in , vain to speak: a tumult of emotions blinded him, a strange exultation of spirits choked his utterance. Footsteps were heard approaching: he must speak:-  "Louise!" It was but a whisper. She looked up, thrilled by the low, sweet utter- ance that seemed' to have fallen from heaven as softly as the twilight. , Only once more - in Vic- tor's dying moment-did she hear that whisper repeated, or see the ineffable brightness that then shone on his face. And she knew its meaning then as afterwards, when death was swallowed up in victory-. ..-    .. I ' .  ^ - /t   SMA KING OFF THE VIPER.     18 He could not say more; but she knew that h would be true to his mission. "Why, here they are!'" "Indeed!"  "Ho  romantic!"  ' Iow' exclusive!" Gus, Reuben Mrs. Winslow, and Marie, all spoke together. "We have been wondering what had become o! you. I'm so tired of religious. discussion! Thej have been disputing an hour, and papa and M / Deschamps are talking still;" and Marie lookec really disheartened. ,  "Yes; and you not therei M. La Tourette. Mr Smith has almost made us Calvinists." But Mrs winslow was only joking: she never could be a Calvinist. "Well, don't mention it," said' Gus: "you will get Mr. Smith and M. La Tourette a-going. I am as tired of it as Marie; 4though I don't see how she could be tired,-for she was regenerated, you-know, when a babe."             , "If you say that again, Gus, I will never speak to you more. I just hope you will fall in love with one of those pious Methodist girls where you go so much. Mamma, how would you like to have one of them for a daughter?" - O, I am going to marry an Indian princess, you know."  , "An Indian squaw, you mean. DWon't Gus make a sensation when he brings her home? Just think of it,*-the feathers, the paint, the bracelets, and the beads, to say nothing of the tunic and moccasins."   ........   ..  '  I    ' "   182    vCTroR LA TOURETTE. Gus joined boisterously in the laugh. "That would be jolly! iWill you introduce her among your fashionable friends, Marie?"  "Oh, yes! we will give Gus a reception, won't we, mamma? Just think how he will look, stand- ing up with his squaw to receive the congratula- tions of the company. Will you come to the reception, M. La Tourette?" "Certainly I Count on my being, the first ar- rival."           I "Then you will have the first kiss of the bride. We will have plenty of soap and water to wash the paint from your lips." "What silly children! I am ashamed of you. Don't think, M. La Tourette, they are always so silly," and Mrs. Winslow patted Marie's cheek. "Come now, Marie," isaid Gus, "I propose a truce. If you will say no more about the Indian princess, I will say no more about regeneration." "Oh, you are a dear, good boy I See, now, I'll give you a kiss."        V Reuben had adhered closely to the Winslows  1 since tea, and had boeen alert for every opportunity of speaking. But every thing he had said in the way of small talkihad made him appear more awkward; and so he had thought best to throw himself upon his ministerial dignity. Here was his opportunity. 4If Miss Winslow has met with a change of heart," said he, with a pastoral tone, ' I trust she will not be ashamed to confess it." \  ' *   SHAKING OFF THE VIPER.      18 This was too much. Marie snickered. Gul roared. None could restrain their risibilities. i Oh, you need have no anxiety about that, Mr Smith. Mr. Willoughby settled that matter, ] reckon. But her heart may change again. Maria is a terrible coquette. Oh, this is jolly! Ha, ha ha!"              l "No such thing, Gus. Mr. Willoughby is noth. ing to me. I am not a coquette, am'P, mamma? "What is all this fun about?" "They are making fun of ,me. Won't you take my part, M. Deschamnps?" and Marie sprang for. ward and took his arm. , "Indeed I will. Who is making! fun of you?' said Deschamps, with mock indignation. "Mr, Smith, you look guilty."      ' Another burst of laughter. Poor Reuben.   , Deschamps saw he was taking the matter seri- ously. "I can't- believe it was Mr. Smith," said he. Reuben's face brightened.  "Miss Winslow ,knows I am her friend," he said, with an insinu, ating tone, but really making an effort at gallantry, Evidently Marie had made a conquest.  She colored angrily as a smothered ejaculation from Gus foreshadowed the hectoring that was to follow. ! t              n *;,         I   ,   :184    'VICTOR LA TOURETTE. CHAPTER X. BETROTHED. V'l'WHLE I'find in my father's diary a minute account of his experiences and reflections, during the first Sabbath of his voyage, the subse- quent events arie but imperfectly sketched. He seems to have been very much occupied, when alone, with the Liturgy of the Episcopal Church. The forms for baptism, confirmation, and ordina- tion, particularly engaged his attention. So far as he could judge from the book itself, he could see no insurmountable obstacle to his entering that Church, unless it were the Articles of Religion. Most of these he could' indorse in his own miid; but this did not-remove his objection to them, for 1 j others who might believe in Christ as firmly as he might not be able to do the same; and no Church could be Catholic that required subscription to any creed but that which all believers in Christ could accept. But it nowhere appeared in the Liturgy that a subscription to .any form of -doctrine was required except the Apostles' Creed, which had always seemed to him to be very nearly Catholic, though he had some nisgivings even of that. He did not wish, however, to be so radical as to be   ; BETROTHED.      -  185 impractical. He must, of course, take the world as he found it, and make the best of his opportunities. The question'in his mind was to determine what position was best calculated to promote the cause of Christ, and at the same time neither violate con- science nor restrict the expression of his opinions. He was familiar with 'the history of the English Church. It was not at first revolutionary, but re- formative. By casting out "what Rome had intro- duced, it had, though perhaps unconsciously, gone back to the original and Catholic basis. What had been done afterwards, however, in the intro- duction of Protestant dogmas, had impaired its Catholicity,; Was the same true of the American Church? Evidently it did not require ,subscription to the articles, either on the part of the candidate for baptism, confirmation, or ordination. Why, tlhen, could he not unite withi that Church? Was it not, in fact, his imperative duty to do so? ; If really Catholic in principle, it must be the true Church, whatever might be the spirit of its - mem- bers. So far as regarded its discipline and forms of worship, he could submit without violation of conscience. He had long talks with the Winslows; but their knowledge, aside from  the ordinary Church forms and routine, was limited. The professor had really never studied into the question of Catholicity. He readily comprehended Victor's ideas, but, the sub- ject being new to him, he could not say whether the practices of the Episcopal Church were Catho- 5     1"*   I186    VICTORn LA ITOURETTE. lie or, not. He felt sure, however, that Victor would find obstacles in the way he did not lntici- pate. Its general spirit he thought was any thing but Catholic, being narrow, exclusive, and intol- erant.  '   -- ! But Mrs. Winslow saw no difficulties at all in the way. She knew Victor would like the Epis- copal Church. Btu- her confidence rested in its respectability and refinement. She was sure, too, that it was Catholic, though the real nature of Catholicity she could not comprehend. The Deschamps, while entering heartily into his purposes could give him no information, having never been inside of an Episcopal Church, though they had frequently met with Episcopalians in society. In Detroit there were only Romanists, Puritans, and a few Methodists. One day the professor came to him privately; and said: ("How would you like to remain in Boston permanently, or at least long enough to familiarize yourself with the habits of our people? It is pos- sible you may: procure the position of instructor in modern languages in the college. As yet there has been no such department established there, but it was talked of when I came away. , I should be glad to present your name in that connection to the trustees, and to exert my influence to procure th4 position for you. In the mean time you could make yourself familiar with the principles and practices of the Episcopal Church, and decide at your leisure what-course to pursue."  ' .      .  I   'BErTROTHED.        187 The proposition impressed Victor favorably; and he thanked the professor warmly for the interest he had manifested in him. The interest of the Winslows in Victor sprung from no sympathy with his purpose. On the con- trary, they would have been better pleased if his religious views had been of the popular order. They were liberal; but their liberality resulted -from no earnest convictions. Mrs. Winslow was somewhat devout, and was much attached to her Church, -r- so much attached that she would have made considerable sacrifice for it, if necessary; but she had very little apprehension of Christ's real mission. She was kind, but frivolous; devout, but worldly; sincere, but not reflective. The pro- fessor seemed totally different in character from his wife; and yet they were not altogether unlike. He was not frivolous, but was equally worldly; not devout, but outwardly religious; not sincere, but reflective. At heart he was a sceptic, but was too conservative and cautious to avow this openly. He saw clearly that Victor's views were-correct so far as regarded the question of Catholicity, but he did not feel the inspiration of his spirit and pur- pose. Had he been a firm   believer in Christ, he yet would not have perilled his reputation to advance unpopular views, however much he may have secretly cherished them. Still they were much pleased with Victor, though unable to sympathize with his Christian spirit. Being really kind and liberal at heart, they did   188    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. not comprehend how much his views were in con- flict with public prejudices, or into what difficulties they would be likely to bring him. They thought if he did become an Episcopalian le would be like other Episcopalians, and would be esteemed as , such. Their liking for him sprung from his air of refinement, good breeding, scholarly attainments, and his familiarity with society. Besides, they judged that his family was highly respectable and wealthy. Mrs. Winslow, indeed, thought he would be a star in the cultured circle in which her family moved. She anticipated great pleasure in intro- ducing him to her friends, and had even thought of him as a possible and a most desirable match for her daughter., M. Deschamps comprehended at a glance both Victor's purpose and the difficulties that would be encountered in its promotion. He was a keen lawyer and an experienced and able practitioner; anm his knowledge of human nature, acquired in his long intercourse with men, assured him at once that Victor could accomplish little or nothing in the furtherance of his views. In the first place, he believed there was very little real Christianity in the world, and that the spirit of all the Churches was for the most part opposed to the spirit of Christ, and hence that Victor would meet only hostility, contempt, and persecution, whenever and wherever he should attempt to preach. Some accounted sceptics, like himself and the captain, might receive him kindly, and be benefited by his   BETROTHED.       -  189' teachings;' but such people were few. Most infi- dels, lie admitted, were as cold, selfish, and heart- less as others. Catholicity, if he rightly understood its meaning, would restore the Church to its origi- nal simplicity and purity. It would do away with all dogmatism, cant, superstition, and tyranny. To ask any sect, therefore, to become Catholic, would be to ask it to disband; for real Catholicity, if introduced, would inevitably overthrow the dog- matic basis upon which every sect was built. He told Victor how in his younger days he had enter- tained many schemes for promoting the interests of the poor and the laboring classes, but which,he could never carry out because they would not sup- port him in them. He had been a life-long anti- slavery man, and, although thlere never had been a nobler cause than emancipation, it had made - little, if any, progress. On the contrary, the agita- tion of the subject had only seemed to rivet the chalns more strongly upon the slave, and to bring obloquy upon all who advocated his cause. He had also done all he could for the Indians, with whom he deeply sympathized; but the more he strove to save them from abuse and intemperance, tihe less self-reliant they seemed to become, and the more easily victimized by such men as Garvey. "Now you will find," said he, ";that your efforts at reform in the Church will turn out in the same way. The moment you attempt to preach Catho- licity, the more dogmatic will the Churches become. They will be aghast at what, they will assume to . \ii       \   --1 90  YVICTOR LA TOURETTE. be your wicked heresies. The clergy will preach against you with the greatest vehemence, knowing that, should your views prevail, their honors and livings would be lost. And, as for the people at large, they are utterly incapable of comprehending and appreciating the, truth and honesty of your views. It may be that the Episcopalians, so far as regards their symbols and forms, are Catholic, -that is, one who is a real Catholic might unite with them without violating his principles, not being -compelled- to - subscribe any human dogmas; but, from what I know of the members themselves of that denomination, he would, I think, find him- self in most uncongenial company. Their Church may be the real temple of God, but be occupied by the money-changers." "Would you then advise me to giveup my mission?"  Victor and- Louise were at- this time engaged; and this was known and approved by Deschamps, though not suspected by the Winslows. Deschamps laughed. There was something al- most ludicrous in the idea of one so young as Victor supposing that a great mission had been- imposed upon him by Heaven; one that, if success- ful, would completely revolutionize' the Christian world. He had himrnelf, in his youth, had heroic dreams, dreams of becoming the champion of great reforms,--but had never entertained so wild a scheme as this. Without replying to Victor's question directly, he said:!'How would it suit   -- -          BETROTHED.     -    19  you to study law?  That would place you in an independent position, while you could still do something perhaps to promote Catholicity in the Church. Having established your reputation as a lawyer, you alight by your personal influence ac- complish even more :than in the ministry, since at the best in that you could hope to attain nothing more than a little notoriety. Respect and influ- ence are not often acquired by opposition to the popular will. And, now I think of it, you could write a book setting forth your religiouslviews that would be likely to reach more minds than you could reach by preaching. Your conflict with the priest assures me. that you would make a good lawyer."               -      ! As Victor made no reply at once, Louise feared he was tem'pted. She had listened to nis conver- sation with her father with great interest, but had said nothing.                 , "Do not tempt Victor, papa; for I know it would only make him   unhappy to abandon the purpose of his life now. And it would make me unhappy'too. He has no taste for the law, and I do not think would succeed in it; and, if le should, he would yet always feel that he had been untrue to Christ. As for me, I am ready to go through all trials 'with him for Christ's sake; and I know we will have greater trials than we can anticipate now. But I think we shall be happy if we are true to him, whatever may befall us in this life." ' No, I can never abandon the ministry," said O         192   - vICTOR LA TOURETTE. 'Victor. "If I had any doubt at all, it was on Louise's account; for I could not bear the thought of involving her in the obloqfiy that I am well assured will be heaped on me. But that matter was settled at the start. Her faith is stronger than mine. I confess that I wavered, and might have given up my purpose rather than have given her up; 'for I felt that it would not be right to ask her to unite her fortunes with mine, which I knew could not be happy in this life, should I persist in my course. But she would not permit me to change my purpose. - Indeed, she was so firm in tthis that I found that only )y' persevering in my previous plans could, I hbpe to win her hand. s So you see there is, no Alternative but to go on; and with her counsel and sympathy to support ml I feel that I can endure any trials and iabors tiat God may see fit to impose upon me, and even glory in tribulations." - "But you: do not seriously expect to convert many to your views?" "No; but somebody must begin this battle, And I ought not to shrink from the conflict. And I do hope to accomplish something, -to plant the mus- tard-seecd that may hereafter develop into the great tree.' " "But are you prepared for all disappointments? Suppose that, when you come to die, it should appear that, so far from having made the Church more Catholic, your efforts should seem to have made it even more narrow and intolerant?"    oBE'ROTHEED.       193 Victor hesitated.   - '"Papa calculates possibilities from his experi- ences in the cause of emancipation. But I am sure God will overrule all things for the best; The slaves will sometime be free. Do you not know, papa, that you at first stood up alone for emancipation, while now  many sympathize with- you?" "Yes, there is some cause for encouragement," said Deschamps, thoughtfilly. "It may be that all things will be overruled for the best, notwithstand- ing, the discouraging aspect of the cause. 'Whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad;' and perhaps the insane hatred which the slave- holders manifest towards us will result; in their destruction. And I can see, too, that if professing Christians should become a little more intolerant they would revolutionize the Church thro-ugh the reaction that would inevitably follow. Well, well, my dear children, I am -willing you should go on in the path you have chosen. In fact,! am quite content as it is, and love you the more for your devotion to principle. You will have my sympa- thy and support as long as I live ; and when I am dead, God, I trust, will be your helper. Without doubt all will be overruled for the best." : And Deschamps left them alone, after warmly shaking Victor's hand, who -was much affected, and folding his daughter in his arms in a long embra'e.       v-         ' 9    .    M     X    194    VICTOR LA4 TOURETTE. CHAPTER XI. CATHOLICITY AND CALVINISM.   '  THE second Sunday of the voyage the religious exercises were conducted as, at first', except that Reuben Smith, at the suggestion of Victor, officiated 'at the afternoon service, and preached a written sermon. .He began with a short extempo- raneous prayer. Then lhe read the eighth chapter of Romans, after which he prayed a half hour or more. After having first told God all about who he was, - great and terrible, and into whose pres- ence we come with fear and trembling,--he thanked him for having given his Son as a sacri- -fice for sin, whereby his wrath had been appeased 'and the elect justified and saved. He declared that all were by nature totally depraved, and that every thing men could do was wicked till they had been regenerated; that those who had been fore- ordained to be lost would be lost in spite of any thing they could do; and that they had no right to complain, for God could do as he pleased, it being only for his own glory that he had deter- nmined to create any one to be saved. His sermon was an expansion of the same ideas, the text having been selected from the chapter he   CATHOLICITrV  AND CALVINISM.    195 had read-: "Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called; and whom he called,-them he also justified; and whom he justified, them he also glorified." He had often tried to draw Victor into an argu- ment; but the latter had avoided him, having determined to have no more personal altercations. The captain and Deschamps had occasionally at- tempted to argue with him, but with little satis- faction. They were puzzledl with the doctrine of election. Though they felt it could not be true, they did not know how to answer his arguments learned at the seminary. On this occasion, they were exceedingly anxious that Victor should speak, especially as Reuben, with his peculiar assurance, asserted that no person could refute what he had proved, and challenged any person to reply to his argument. Garvey followed with a characteristic exhorta- tion; and while he was speaking Deschamps whis- pered to Victor, "Don't you think you had better speak? It may give the impression that you can- not answer Smith's arguments if you keep silence. \ But do as you think best." WI hen Garvey was through, Victor arose. He said he was reluctant, for two reasons, to make any rejoinder to the preacher's argument: first, because he did not wish to arouse any religious controversy on such an occasion; and, second, be- cause the doctrine of election was one of "the most ,. difficult to understand and combat in- theology.   196'    - VITOR LA TOURETTE.      ' AP It was one about which men of equal piety and learning differed, and could not well be, settled. It certainly, however, was not a Catholic doctrine, -not one upon which any person's salvation de- pended. In the times of Christ and his apostles it did not seem to have been even thought of. Cer- tainly a belief in it was not required, but only a belief in the Lord Jesus Christ. And if not essen- tial then, it could not be essential now. Still, it was well enough to discuss it, as a matter of inquiry and culture. Some might be troubled by it, think- ing that, if it were true, there would be no neces- sity of personal effort, since salvation would, in that case, depend wholly upon whether one were foreordained to be saved or lost, and not upon any choice or effort of his own. Besides, churches had been founded upon this dogma, to which all were refused admission who did not subscribe it, thus thwarting the purpose of Christ, who had expressly declared he would have all men to be saved. What right had any man or combination of men to ex- clude any one from the Church who did not hold - this doctrine? For his own part, his reason, his humanity, his sense of justice, revolted, not only against that ecclesiastical tyranny that would com- pel all who would come into the Church to sub- scribe this or alny other human dogma, but also against the dogma itself. God was our Father. This was asserted in the first sentence of the Lord's Prayer. Is it credible that our Father should have begotten any of his children with the express pur-   CATHOLICITY AND CAL VINISM.     197 pose of damning them to eternal misery,? God is love. Is it possible that he should have delier- ately created a sensitive being to torment him for :ever? He says he has no pleasure in the death of the wicked. Why, then, should he have fore- ordained themn to die? He says, "Why will ye die?" Is it possible that he should so mock our sufferings, when he knows that not only must we die if we are not foreordained to be saved, but that he has himself doomed us to perish? Could there be any more fiendish malice and cruelty than this? There were two arguments from which this dogma was deduced,-one from the Bible, and one from reason,--neither of which, in his opinion, was sound. Some were called the elect or chosen in the Bible; but this could not- mean that they were to, be saved by the arbitrary decree of- God, for the children of Israel were thus designated, and yet we read that some went down quick into hell. All the twelve apostles were said to be chosen, and Judas with the rest; and yet he was afterwards called 1 The son of perdition." The words, " chosen " and " elect" were one word in the original, and hence we could not understand by the latter those who were foreordained by abso- lute decree to be saved. Any person who chose Christ was chosen of God; and yet, if he should afterwards- reject Christ, he would be cast off, so that there was no absolute decree independent of our own choice. God did predestinate and fore-   198    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. ordain all to be saved who should believe in Christ.; but this did not mean 'that he had de- creed that any one should or should not believe in him. And what did reason teach us? It was said that God must foreknow all things, and hence, lhaving created all, must have known, when he created us, who would and who would not be saved, and must, therefore, have so decreed; for creating a man with the knowledge that he was to perish was equivalent to an absolute decree that he should perish. But this was assuming that to be true of which we knew nothing. It would seem, indeed, that God must have known every thing that was to result from his creations, and doubtless he, did know what would result that he had decreed; but it is not certain that he knew inr advance of its occurrence every thing he had not decreed. If the argument were good that he must have decreed any thing because he foreknew, then it would follow that he was the author of sin, if he had foreknown that Adam would fall when he cre- ated him.' He must have known, too, that Cain would kill Abel, and therefore must have decreed that he should. So far as regarded the foreknowl- edge of God, the subject was confessedly obscure. Doubtless he did foreknow what Would occur that was, controlled by his will; but what was con- trolled by human will was probably not a matter of foreknowledge with him, and for this reason, that till there, was a human will there were no   CATHOLICITY AND CAL VNISM.     19C circumstances to determine positively what it would be. The volition was the first cause of the results that flowed therefrom, and hence it was impossible that there should be any foreknowledge of those results, these depending upon what the volition should be, and not. upon any thing that had previ- ously existed. Should you present a- man two pieces of money just alike, for him to select one, what would there be to determine his choice? Nothing at all. He has no choice in fact, and yet he does -take one. There was no reason for his taking the one he does take in preference to the other, and hence his selection could not have been anticipated. The whole question was involved in the question of free agency. If God had given men independent wills of their own, then it was not possible to determine what their choice would be. But if men'were -mere machines, then could their actions be determined bythe one who con- trols them. If a mechanic, for example, had made a perfect machine,-a clock, we will say,-he could foreknow that it would run well; but, if the clock had a will of its own, he could not tell whether it would run at all or not. God made man perfect and with an independent will, and hence could not have known that he would sin. Of course he knew that he might sin. Should he not'create him, then?  That was another, ques- tionl; but Victor thought that if a single soul were saved, it was a, sufficient reason for the creation of our race.    200  ,  VIC   TOR LA TOURETTE. Finally, in the question of foreknowledge was involved a question of time. Time was not sub- stantive; and though we divide it into past, pres- ent, and future, there could be no actual division :of what was not a real substance. -Time was simply the consciousness of change; and as con- sciousness could only be in, the present, there was properly no time but the present. Foreknowledge was a knowledge of what would result in the pres- ent, either from the operation of natural laws or from' the influence of mental activities. If the laws were established and controlled by God, as doubtless they were, he knew, of course, not only what results would follow'therefrom, but also had determined what should occur. The saIne would be true of mental activities, if they were also wholly under the control of God; but this was not the case. He had given men the control of their own minds, and hence could not determine wiiat they would do or choose. When Victor sat down, the sailors, with whom  he had become a great favorite, began to applaud by/clapping hands; and so clear and convincing seemed his argument that, nearly all enthusias- tically joined in the applause. Even the professor seemed to catch the enthusiasm, and bowed and smiled. "Do you mean to say," said Reuben, fiercely, "that God is not omnipotent?" "I have never questioned his omnipotence," replied Victor, calmly.  - -   CATHOLICITY AND CALVINISM.     201 "Yes, you have: you said he could not tell what men should will. If that is not questioning his omnipotence, I don't know what is. It is nothing short of actual blasphemy." Victor still remained calm. "Omnipotence in God," said he, "means the power to do any thing he chooses, and I have certainly never questioned ,that."                 . "Any thing he chooses? It means he can do any thing at all. Does not the Bible say that nothing is impossible with God? Do you believe the Bible?"  "No matter what I believe. That is not the question. The possibilities of God are of truth and love,-not of falsehood, nor cruelty, nor of any thing absurd and foolish. I say he can do any thing he -chooses; but he cannot choose to do, any thing contrcary to reason, justice, and mercy." "Just as I said: you deny God's omnipotence." "How so- .  "Why, you say he cannot do so and so. How- dare you use such language of God? He can do every thing." "Do you think he could change his own nature, or speak falsely, or do any thing contrary to right? Could he become like Satan, or delight in wicked- ness? Only to finite and imperfect beings are there such possibilities." . -- "He could if he chose." "Well, could he so choose?" "Of course he could, he being omnipotent." s   9*   202     ViCTOR LA TOURETTE. "Then you jthink he could sin?" "He could if he chose; but of course he would not."  "Could he blot himself from existence?" "What a foolish question! I do not wish to argue with you, if you will not talk sensibly. The Bible says nothing is impossible with God, and that settles the matter. If you do not believe the Bible, there is no use in arguing with you. An infidel cannot be convinced." "'I quite agree with you tliat:there-is no use in arguing," said Victor, smiling; " so let' us drop the subject."            - Here the professor spoke. I suppose," said he, slowly, " that this is a free meeting, and that others can speak as well as our young friends who are studying for the ministy.. It is amusing to see them cross bladei in this harmless contest; but they do not seem to keep to the question in dis- pute. Both- admit that God is omnipotent, and I suppose would admit that he is also omniscient; but they do not agree as to what are possibilities. Suppose you let that question drop, except in one particular, as it is only partially involved inl the ,question of foreordination. The two points' of inquiry are, first, whether men are, free agents or not, and, seponld, whether, if they are, it is one of the possibilities of God that he should foreknow what would be the will or choice of an individual. I suppose, M. LaTourefte, you will admit that if a man is not a free agent, or that if God does , i   . ,               t   CA4THOLICITY AND CALVINISM.     203 foreknow what each man's choice will be, then the doctrine of election must be true?" "You are right in a partial sense," said Victor. "If man is not a free agent, I confess my theology is overthrown. -I could not believe' in any thing in that case,-not even in the existence of a God, and so not in foreordination, but rather in fatalism. Still, that we may not\ complicate the question, I will admit that Mr. Smith is right if men are not fiee agents, or even if God could have foreknowrn in each case what man's choice would be." "Why do you say, in each case? If he does nol know in one case, of course he does not know ir any case." "Let me explain," said Victor. ' There are cases in which a man's choice may be determined almost or quite to a certainty.' When the devil had got' into Judas's heart, Christ knew that:he would betray him. A man's disposition being known, and the temptations to which he will be exposed being also known, it is easy to tell what his choice will probably be. Perhaps, indeed, ar omniscient mind could anticipate it with certainty. Now, suppose it to be true that God does know what every man will do or choose, yet: even ther it would not follow that he did know before man's creation, or before Ban had sinned. He createc man perfect, and sirrounded hint with all things, that could please the eye and minister to his neces. sities and comforts.' There was no reason why h( -should sin, there being no evil in his nature, no:   VICTOR  LA TOURETTE. any necessity of his being to tempt him. All the circumstances and conditions of his existence were such that there was nothing to indicate that he would disobey. He had the power, of course, to disobey; but there being no occasion for disobedi- ence, there could have been no certainty of his fall. Now, if God foreknows, as I before remarked, it is bcause   e he so decrees, or because the conditions are such as to point to such a result as probable or inevitable. In the case of Adam, therefore, there being no decree, and n" conditions that necessarily or probably pointed tol his fall, his sin was not a matter of positive forek owledge. It was possible, it is true; but a knowledge of a possibility is not a 'foreknowledge, - not such a foreknowledge, at least, as to imply an absolute decree. What has occurred since Adam's fall is not material. rThough God( should know what every, man living will choose, that would not prove that he had foreor- dained any man to be lost or saved; for, not having known that Adam. would sin, he could not have known, when he created our race, thait any of Adam's posterity would' sin. In short, the whole question of foreordination depends upon whether God knev that Adam would sin or not. I con- tend that he did not know, for the reason that there was no occasion or necessitv for such an incident, -only a possibility through Adamn'si free agency." The professor laughed. W' ell, that is an'orig- inal View of the matter, I confess," said he; "but,   if true, I think it must follow that God. is not omniscient." ' How so?" " Why, if lie did not know that Adam would sin, he did not know every thing, did he ?" "That I do .not think follows. Omniscience means a knowledge of every thing, - of all facts, conditions:, and existences. Adaii's fall, at the time of his creation, was not a thing either accom- plished, decreed, or an inevitable or probable re- sult of any circumstances in being. There can be no knowledge of what is not, and, therefore, could have been no previous knowledge of Adam's fall." The professor was puzzled; and, the sailors beginning to cheer, again, he became confused, though he bowed and smiled. "You will have to give it up, Professor," said the captain, in a jocose tone. "Not so fast, Captain; I will corner him yet. You have admitted, M. La Tourette, that God is omnipotent; and, if so, he could have kept the serpent out of Eden, could he not?" 4No; I don't think he could, and yet permitted Adam to live." "You cannot mean that," said the professor, after the' merriment Victor's reply excited, and which the professor seemed to enjoy as well as the rest, had subsided. "Yes, I am serious. But Ii do not wonder you think my answer inconsistent with my avowed belief in God's omnipotence. The history of Adam   206    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. \4 . /    '   e '- I regard as a symbol of man's origin. And yet, for allpractical purposes, we may take it literally. So, too, in relation to the serpent. I do not suppose that, actually, a. serpent crept into Eden and tempted Eve. The serpent is the form and ex- pression of the most vicious, subtle, and loathsome conditions of existence, and is, therefore, the sym- bol used in the Bible to denote temptation. When I say that God could not have prevented the ser- pent from creeping into the garden, and yet per- ' mitted Adam to live, I simply assert Adam's free agency. Man could not have been created with- out a will of his own; for a creature that has not an independent volition would not be a man. He would be some other creature,- a mere machine, in fact. Self-consciousness necessarily implies free will; and as self-consciousness is what distinguishes man from other creatures, it is plain that, were he to lose it, he would cease to be a man. , He could not have been created without it, and could not exist as a self-conscious being without it; and hence, as any t ling unreasonable and absurd is not a possibility of god, man could not be deprived of free will and still exist. And this explains why God permitted, and still permits, sin in the world, for otherwise man could not have been created, or would be stricken from being." The discussion had become dull.  Most had already gone; but the professor still persisted;- "This talk about free agency is a mere abstrac- tion. The mind as well as the body-thought as   CATHOLICITY AND CAL VINISM.      207 well as action- is governed by fixed laws. I do not believe any -thing occurs without a cause. Men always do as the circumstances of their lives and as-the impulses of their minds dictate. They are wholly governed by these. There is no such thing as independent will or action. Here are two men, one moral, the other immoral; and their actions correspond with their characters inevitably. Each chooses, to do as inclinations prompt; and as he does not himself determine his inclinations,- they being the sequence of the nature that is born in him,- it cannot be properly said that he is a free agent. There is always something that dic- tates his choice to him. If one is hungry, for example, he chooses to steal a loaf of- bread; if not hungry, hq chooses not to steal. No two are alike, - one being tempted in one wayi another in another; and all do as circumstances and inclina- tions prompt. 'One is born poor, another rich; and, though just alike in mental qualities, the former becomes a criminal, and the latter the judge who tries and condemns him. Is this the result of deliberate choice, or of outward circumstances over which neither at first, had any control? Plainly the latter; and, if so, ithere can be no freedom of will. In short, men are not free agents at all, but are the creatures of circumstances by which they are wholly controlled." "Your argument, I confess," said Victor, "is very strong. It is hard to reconcile facts with the theory of free agency, or to understand how God   208    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. can be just, and yet judge us by our actions some being tempted more than othe s, andithe circum- stances of our lives being in a measure beyond our control. 'Still, the subject seems- clear to my mind now, though it has given me a good deal of trouble. We should not take our illustrations from actual life, because our condition is not as it should be, nor as God wills, but is the result of sin. We must go back to the begnining, when every thing was as God willed, and as he made it Suppose there had been two Adams, two Eves, and, two Edens: is it necessary to suppose that the history of each would have been the same? There were no circumstances nor conditions that rendered the fall of our first parents inevitable; but,' on the con- trary, there was every thing to induce obedience. And yet they sinned. Were they the creatures of circumstances??Was not their fall the result of their own choice? Is it probable that another Eve would have yielded to the same temptation? They plainly sinned against knowledge, against an ex- press command of God, and against their own nature and surroundings " - : Oh! we don't know any thing about Adam and Eve," interrupted the professor, laughing. '- They lived a good while ago. Doubtless an ideal state may be pictured in which man would be a free agent; but that is not our actual condition. And you say, yourself, their condition is only a symbol, Take thhings as we find them, and then we can arrive at some definite and practical conclusion."   CATHOLICITY AND CALYVIArSM.      209 "Well, then, let us suppose there are two infants born in the same circumstances in life, and just alike in disposition and faculties. One ends his career a criminal, and the other a judge. Do you not think their own choice had something to do with their ultimate fortunes:? Could not the one have lived as honorable a life as the other?!' "You suppose an impossible case.   I might ; grant that their fortunes were determined by their choice, if such were their fortunes; but it is impos- sible that two just alike in disposition and in out- ward circumstances should so diverge.   They would in fact come out in the end just alike. At any rate, we have as much reason to suppose this as the contrary." Victor was puzzled. He did not know how to illustrate his ideas. "You may be right in this," said he, " though I think not. Is it not true that sometimes one with every advantage fails, while another with every, disadvantage achieves success? Of course I do not refer to success in business, in which this is undoubtedly true, but to progress in spiritual culture." "I don't know about that. I never knew such a case." "Take, for example, Judas and Paul. The for- mer without hesitation became a follower of Christ, and yet proved a traitor to his cause. The latter was at first bitterly hostile, - a monster of cruelty, in fact, and, as he himself confesses, full of infirm- ities, - and yet made his life glorious beyond that of /! .,                . N    j -       \ 210    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. any other apostle. So far as natural disposition and outward circumstances are regarded, the ad- vantage was with Judas; and yet he failed, while I Paul triumphed over every obstacle. The same was true of Esau -and Jacob., The latter was plainly as mean in character as the other was noble. -How shall we account for these differences in fortune, unless we attribute them to diferences in choice?"I  ! "Your illustrations are again obscure. Grant- ing that there were such men,iand that their his- tories were as you state them, it yet would appear that their fortunes were, determined by circum- stances beyond their control. i Both Jacob and Paul were converted by miracles: each saw a vision in the heavens." "True, there was a miracle wrought in behalf of each, but in neither case was there any compulsion. Paul was not compelled to be obedient to the heavenly vision; nor was Jacob. They chose, however, to be obedient, and this choice determined their destiny. The same is true in every case. For each has a like miracle been wrought. To every one is a- promise made. All may see radiant visions. Our destiny in every case is determined by the choice we make. It is but cowardice to yield to temptation because one is more tempted than another. The children of Israel complained that God was unjust: their fathers had eaten 1 sour grapes, and so the children's teeth had been set on edge."   CATHOLICITY AND CALVINISM.      2" / , You do not think one can resist temptation as - well as another?" "I say that every one can resist temptation. Whether he will resist or not depends upon his own determination, and not upon the circumstances in which he is placed." -  "But you dodge my question. Can one resist as, easily as another?" "Certainly not. But that is not the question we are discussing. It is whether one has any power of choice or Snot."    ' ' I' Not exactly. It is whether one is a free agent or not. If one cannot resist temptation as ,well as another, what is the reason? Plainly because there are circumstances beyond his control that influence him; and of course, then, our' destiny is in a degree at least determined by circumstances. And if this be true, we are not free agents at? all. Is a starving man a free agent when tempted to steal bread?" 4 He can resist though hb starve." "But he cannot be free when constrained by hunger." "No, not free. That is not what I claim. By free agency is not meant' that one can do any thing he pleases, nor that he is  free from allrestraining and. impelling influences beyond his control. It means that he can choose the right or the wrong in despite of all restraints or impulses. He can also improve or become worse. Circumstances may excuse a man for certain: acts that another could   i 21W2.  VICTOR LA TOURETTE. not commit without great guilt; but nothing will excuse anyone for not making effort to improve according to his opportunities and strength. Sin has made all slaves; but God has given us a chance to attain perfect freedom, if we choose to be free, and has promised that we shall attain it, if we put forth sufficient effort."  "You admit, then, that men's wills are under k restraint."  "I certainly do not claim that men are omnipo- tent, and can do any thing they will. And I admit that the more imperfect and sinful we are, the greater the difficulties we have to contend with. Nevertheless, we are in all cases free to choose life or death. No matter how high we are, we can go. ;down; no matter how low, we can rise.' "How is it with the heathen? Do you think they have the power to attain salvation?" "Yes; all, however low or high in the scale of being, are responsible for the use they make of their opportunities. One can improve as well as another."          ,  "So, then, you think one may be saved without faith in Christ?" "Christ is the way-, the truth, and the life. So also th' way, the truth, and the life are Christ. The heath6n do not know of him by name; but as  St. Paul has taught, they have the law written in their hearts. They know something of truth, and will improve if they make good use of their knowl-' edge. Their chances of salvation are the same as   CA THOLICITY AND CALVINISM.     213 ours, for salvation is simply a question of improve- ment; and any person who makes good use of his faculties and opportunities will be saved, whether he be Christian or heat-len."  "What do you think of that, Mr. Smith?" said the professor jocosely. F "I think," said SmithL, "that such doctrines ,are simply monstrous. The heathen who never heard of: Christ be saved! How can you, Professor, con- descend to argue with him?" "You think, I suppose," said Victor, sharply, "that every person goes to hell who happens to differ from vou." "Never mind," interrupted the professor. "Ac- cording to your view, M. La Tourette,-which I think very liberal,-there was no necessity for Christ's coming minto the world, or dying on the cross for the atonement of sin." "That is another question." "I admit it; but I should like to have your opinion in relation to it." "God is just and impartial," said Victor, "and gives each an equal chance. All-men are judged by their works, the heathen as well as the Chris- tian. To the same degree that our, opportunities and faculties are increased are our responsibilities also increased. God's purpose is to develop every soul into a perfect, happy, and immortal being; and if this purpose is not realized in any individual, he must perish. God will not permit any sinful man to remain as he is. He must go up / ;   214     VICTOR LA TOURErTE. or down. But this purpose cannot be accomplished at once, but only by degrees or gradual approxi- mations. As soon as men were capable of under- standing his, mission, Christ was sent into the world.  That mission was the improvement of our race, for in improvement only is salvation possible. His gospel reveals the highest approxima- tion of the earthly to the heavenly life. And now that he' has coime, it is impossible that any person who knows of him, and comprehends his purpose, should live up to his opportunities without obedi- ence to his precepts. His gospel is the last link in  the chain that unites God with his creatures, but there are other links, of which the moral law is one; and I do not" think it is possible to undcler- stand the gospel till we have first learned this law. One, therefore, who is improving in any truth of God is approximating perfection, and-is climbing the ladder that unites earth to heaven, howheit that he is still afar off, from God. '"And as for the atonement, I do not understand by it a bloody sacrifice to appease the wrath. of God, nor a commercial transaction, nor a vicari- ous ;offering other than as a voluntary, necessary, and heroic self-sacrifice for the good of men that they might know the 'ay, the truth, and the life, and be incited to noble actions and aspirations. Christ sacrificed himself to the cause he repre- sented, Rand which he came to promote, - the cauise of God and humanity. His sacrifice will ultimately make all who follow his example at one with God.   CA THOLICzTY AND CAL VINISM.     215 It will bring them back to their Father's mansion, who, like the Prodigal's father, is ever waiting their return." "Then you do not think," said Smith, rising up in great excitement, " that Christ died to appease the wrath of God?" "No, I do not, -at least not in the sense you attach to the expression." "This is really slocking." And Reuben hast- ened away in great disgust. There were none left but the captain, Des- cphamps, and Louise. "You have driven him off as you did the priest," said the captain.       , - g  ;   216   . VICTOR LA TOURETTE. ' ' *      ,  ** n . CHAPTER   XII. CATHOLICITY AND MATERIALISM. FTER Smith had gone, the professor's tone be- came more confidential. "Iam surprised," said he, "' that he did not quote Scripture against you, for there is a multitude of passages to sustain his view. -I shall not, however, quote them my- self, as I quite agree with you in irelation to the atonement." , All. the-passages usually cited in support of what is deemed the orthodox view of the atone- Inent are easily explained," said Victor. "I am glad we agree in one thing, Professor." "In inore than one." This was spoken in a cordial- tone. "I do not exactly see," said the captain, "how God can be just and yet judge all men by the same rule. I think all can choose the; right; but some seem very unfortunate, and almost excusable for their sins." "And this visiting the iniquities of the fathers upon' the children," said Deschamps, "does not seem to me-to be right."  "It is right'" said Victor, " because, if this law were not established, greater evils would result. But God, I do not suppose, holds one accountable f    CA THOLICITTY AND MA TERIALSM e    217 for an inherited infirmity, nor for any thing beyond his control, but only for the use he makes of his faculties and, opportunities'. Our chances are just as good as Adam's were. Not having  known suf- fering, he rushed blindly into it; but we learn by experience to shun evil. He fell through igno- rance, as a child falls; but we may rise through klnowledge.  And I do not think any man can achieve greatness except by strugglings weith in- firmities. Paul became the greatest apostle because lie wag the vilest man. He had so many arnid so great infirmities that, by his strugglings with them, his life was ennobled more than it could otherwise have been. Doubtless it is impossible to achieve spiritual greatness except through trials hand temp- tations. Adam typifies our innocent -childhood as well as the infancy of our race. We were sinless when babes, but we would not like to be babes again for the sake of being sinless, , So we ought not to envy Adam's estate; for I do not see how he could have been very great or very happy before he had known 'suffering. Nor ought we to complain because our ,fathers have eaten sour grapes, and our teeth have been set on edge.' Our chances are as good as theirs. With such possi- biiities as are presented in the gospel, we have every thing to stimulate our efforts and aspirations. Besides, though we inherit the iniquities of our fathers, we also inherit what was good in them. The simple fact that every person is judged ac- cording to his opportunities for improvement fully 10  ;  .            .    218    VICTOR LA TOUREsTE. vindicates the justice of God. Where much is f given much is -required;- and of course, cwhere little is given, little is required." The professor shook his head incredulously. Y"Your theories are plausible,", said he, "but hardly reconcilable with, facts of every-day obser- vation and occurrence, and not at all with many things stated in the Bible. I have been arguing \ from a semi-orthodox position; but, should I take the position of the sceptic, I could ask harder ques- tions than any I have yet propounded. Speaking confidentially, I think the Bible itself could hardly stand very close scrutiny; and, indeed, the whole subject of inspiration is somewhat mythical. You said, yourself, that every thing was governed by fixed laws, whch, if true, would overthrow all revealed religion, do away with all special provi- dences, and render all prayers vain." "Do you not believe in the existence of a God?" said the captain. -, Well. Captain, I am more inclined to ask ques- tions than to answer them. Between us here,- and, of course, I do not expect my remarks will go farther, -I confess, I have no positive opinions on religious subjects, - only negative opinions. I doubt every dogma I have ever heard yet in the- ology. It seems doubtful, indeed, whether there be a God, whether' the Bible be true, or whether there be any life beyond the grave.'" '"And yet," said Victor, " you are a member of a Congregational church?"   CA rTHOLCITY- AD MA TERsALS     219 would do no good to/ parade my doubts before the world; anld until I can have a positive theology of my own it is useless to combat 'that of others." "If you wtere fully persuaded of the existence of a God, I suppose you would have no farther "I can't say exactly that, Captain. Stil, an un- doubting assurance that there is a Supreme Being of infinite power and intelligence would settle many questions in!my mind. I think, indeed, 1 should become a partial convert to M .: La Tou- rette s views of that case." Here a long-argument between the professor and the captain followed in relation to the existence of a God, to w}hich the others listened with great interest,  they took no part. It disclosed ow deeply the captain had reflected upon the sub'ject since his first conversation with Victor i He was fthoroughly in earnest. Every possible v    suggestion seemed to have been anticipated; and i the professor, with all his subtlety, learning, and : acuteness, was no match for him, though, With his accustomed tenacity, he continued the discussion and  finally contrived to confuse the captain by introucing:subjects upon which the latter had not The professor had admitted that if in a single   , 220    VICTOR LA   TOURETTE. creature, either in its structure or in the means -whereby it sustained life, there was undeniably forethought manifested, then there must have,been an intelligent Creator; but he denied that there was  any such  forethought manifested.  "All things as they are,"' he said, "are the result of attrition. By constant motion of:the particles of matter among themselves, they have become ar- ranged in natural and apparently intelligent orders. Each particle, by being moved around, has at last found its natural place, thus forminig what 'seems to be intelligent combinations. The complement of all motions, however confused,. must be a regu- lar motion. So also with the elements of life, which, by constantly commingling, have finally , resulted in tthe         various creatures that exist. It is no proof of forethought that the honey is provided for the bees, any more than it is that the air has been provided for all creatures to breathe; for if there had not been honey there could have been no bees, and if there had been no atmosphere there could have been no creatures to breathe it. By constant shaking up of, all particles, each has at last found the place into which it fits; and thus all the factors that are essential to the structure of any form have been combined." "Do you think," said Victor, "that a human being could have been produced by shaking to- gether all the particles that compose his being?" - '; I' do not say I think so. I only say that pos- sibly human being's have been produced by the {'  '  '      -' ' ' .  -  *' ,' 1 " 1 CA THOLICITY ArND MATERIIS      '221 gradual and natural assimilation of the particles that compose them. It is of course a great mys- tery how our race originated, one which is not explained by the Bible account at all. No man, I think, of common sense can seriously believe that the first man was made of the dust in a day,- still less that the first woman was made out of one of his ribs."'        - "I partly agree with you; but do you not think that at least forethought has been evinced in-his structure?- for that is the real question now, since you have admitted to the captain, that, if there has, there must have been an intelligent First Cause. The methods of creation, and the time required for the production of any creature, are other questions." "Not necessarily any forethought. All his facul. ties may have been developed by use." " That could not' be. Take the human mouth, for example.  It shows that there must have been foreknowledge that man Would require food, or he  would not have  been endowed  with that organ."              : ' It might have been produced by habit.  The blacksmith's arm grows strong by using it, does it not?"    -  "Yes; but there must be an arm to use, or it  could not, grow strong. Now, an organic creature must  !have a mouth at the very beginning of its existence ; for, if not,.it could not eat, and so could not live."   2222   EVICTOR LA TOURETTE. This illustration gave rise to a good deal of merriment. "Well, vou: seem to have cornered me. there ; but any hole might do for a mouth to start with." "Do you really suppose that any hole might be developed into a mouth by putting food into it?" "Noi--not any; but some might by a certain absorption." "' You are not serious?" "Yes, I am. Such a thing might be possible. I do not say that I think it could; but so long as there may be a possibility of such a thing, the proof of design and forethought is not complete." ' "Do you say that every thing may have been produced by bhabit, the original elements having once been brought together?" ', Yes."  ,  i' Then if we find any one thing depending upon another thing for its existence, that other thing must have produced it by habit?" "Yes. By habit I understand use and activity in some way. The air, for example, has produced all the creatures that depend upon it for life, by the action of its elements," "You will admit, too, I presume, that if one thing has produced another by use, it has also pro- duced itfor use." "I don't know about that.' Why should I admit it?" "Otherw-ise how will you account for the use or necessity of one dependent thing to that upon   CA THOLICITY AND MA TERIALISM,    223 which it depends, except by supposing some power anticipated and provided for that use or neces- sity?" "I see your point, and think you are right. I admit that if a thing comes by use, and is of use, it is also produced for that use." "Now, the bee could not have produced the honey for use, for the honey must have been pro- duced first, or the bee could n9t have lived. We must suppose, then, that the honey produced the bee. And it must follow, too, that the honey pro- duced the bee for its own use. Yet the contrary is true. The bee is of no use to the honey, but the honey is of use to the bee. How do you account for the fact that one thing which is of use to another is produced first?" The professor betrayed some c6nfusion. Finally he said: "I guess I erred in admitting that one thing always produces for its own use the thing it subsists upon. This is true, however, in some cases, but not in all. The vulture's beck has grown sharp and crooked perhaps by use and for use; but the honey could not have produced the bee byuse andc for use. I say now, therefore, that some things are produced by and for use, and others simply by use." "Do you mean that A produces B so that B may be a means of convenience and support to A, but that C produces D so that C may be of use to D?" "Yes; thatis my idea."   224    VIZCTOR LA TOURETTE. "The honey, then, proddced the bee, so that there might be a creature to which it would be of use. Also the mouse produced the cat for a simi- lar reason." ' "No, no. I deny that there was any purpose in either of these cases. The bee lives because there is honey, and the cat lives because there are mice; but it does not follow that there was any design on the part of the honey to produce the bee, nor on the part of the mouse to produce the cat." "Very well! Then you admit that there was not a purpose in the production of the bee on the part of the honey, and that the honey did not pro- duce the bee for use nor by use. And yet you claimed that not only was every thing produced in this way, but that the apparent forethought that was manifested in the production of any creature or thing resulted simply from its having been pro- duced by use or for use by some other creature or thing. Now, there is, evidently, a purpose served in the existence of the bee; namely, the gathering of the honey for the use of man. And, if that purpose resided neither in the bee nor in the honey, whence did it originate?" "I do not pretend to know. I only say that some things come by use simply, and that other things are produced for use by the design or habit of the producer."  "But, if we show that there was a purpose served in the, production of any thing, and that  that purpose does not reside in the creature, then,   CATHOLICITY AND MATERIALISM.     225 as you before admitted, there must be an intelli- gent First Cause. The purpose of the honey could not have been in the bee, nor of the bee, in the. honey. Must nrot the one who created the bee have provided the honey for the use of the bee?" "I say the honey produced the bee naturally. That is, there being the means in existence whereby such a creature as a bee could live, the bee came into being spontaneously. In other words, the bee was evolved from the honey." 4 But we are not discussing the manner in which, nor the means by which, any thing is made. The question is, whether there be an intelligent Cre- ator; and you have admitted that there must be, if it can be proved that there is forethourght mani- fested in the production of any thing. But, when I suggested that there was forethought manifested in the structure of the human frame, you avoided the illustration by saying it came by use. I then ' suggested that the human mouth could not have come by use; since there must have been a, mouth to use in the very beginning, or the creature would have died. Still you persisted. And you sought to explain ainy evidence of forethought there might be by imputing it to the creature that had itself produced what was necessary to its convenience or- support by use. I then suggested that the bee- could not have produced the, honey in this way, since the honey must have existed as soon as the bee, or the bee would have died. Then you ad. mitted you were mistaken in saying every depend-   226    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. ent thing was produced for use, and said some things were for use, and others simply by use. But when I asked you, then, to account for the purpose and forethought manifested in what was produced for use, and which yet did not come by uses you only reply by telling me how the thing was' produced. Now,-if you cannot account for the purpose of its production from any natural cause, you must, in accordance tWith your previous admission, confess that there is an intelligent First Cause. To say that the bee was evolved from the honey does not account for the forethought that provided -the honey for the sustenance of the bee.:" "I am not sure that there is any forethought manifested in the production of the honey. The fact that the bee uses it does not prove that it was provided for him. The bee exists because the honey exists; and, of course, if there were no i honey there would be no bees. The bee is simply the hatural sequence of the honey." , Then you would say, I presume, that the pro- duction of the fruit-tree is no proof of any purpose to produce fruit." "No certain proof."     ' "And because men love honey and apples, it does not follow that the bee and the apple -were made for man's use; nor, indeed, that any of the many things necessary to his convenience and use were made for him; but the existence of these things has simply caused him to exist.'" "That may be true."'   CATHOLICITY AND MATERIALISM. 227 "But you surely cannot believe that the fruits of the earth were not previously designed for-the use of man, or that he is simply the natural sequence of their existence." ' '"I do not sav I think so,)-only that such may be true." "Impossible'! It could not be true." "Why not?" "Because we know that like must produce like. A man is not anl apple, nor like an apple; and so we know that the apple could not have produced the man." ' "All flesh is grass," said the professor, laugh- ing. M"My theory is, that, if one thing makes use of another thing, the former has been produced by the latter, or has been an element in its produc- tion. Man makes use of the air, and so I infer that the air is an element in his production."' "Weli, if that be true in one thing, I presume you will admit it to be true in all, for there could not be more than one theory of existence or crea- tion."? "Yes; all conditions are the natural sequences of previous .conditions, according to my theory." "And the same would be true in relation to the emotional and intellectual nature?" "Doubtlessi"     -         ' "Then, because man is pleased with the singing of the birds, it. must' follow that the birds have produced  man, or at least that element of his nature that delights in and appreciates their music. -   228    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. The flowers, too, must have had part in the pro- duction of the eyes and nostrils of the young lady who loves. their fragrance and beauty. Matter imade the sciences, and the sciences produced mind, that there might be something to understand and appreciate the wonderful conditions and shapes into which the particles of matter had been shaken. Nay, the universe made God, and not God the universe." At this moment the servants came in to arrange the tables for supper. "Well, well," said th6 pro- fessor, with some impatience, "I suppose we should not reach any definite conclusioh if we-should talk all our lives." "' Perhaps not- replied Victor, A' with our pres- ent knowledge and acquirements. I do not doubt that there is a good deal of truth in yourtheory as regards the methods of creation; but certainly any theory of creation and existence, except that from one Supreme and intelligent First Cause all things emanate, and in him exist, must involve the greatest contradictions and absurdities."   END OF THE VOYAGE,       229 CHAPTER XIIL. END OF THE VOYAGE. TT was a bright May morning, just as the sun was l rising, that the ship touched her pier in Boston Harbor. Victor had been on deck since early dawn, partly impelled by the interest one naturally feels in the sight of a new country, but chiefly that he might spend as' much time as possible in company with Captain Holt before taking leave of him I The ship had come to anchor several hours before to await the coming of daylight before land- ing, and though he had been up all night, the captain had not retired, but had continued pacing the deck till Victor lhad come. The interest which had been awakenea in each other at the time of their first conversation had now ripened into an attachment stronger than mere- friendship, -so strong, indeed, that they could not meet nor sepa- rate afterwards without the strongest emotions. During the years that Victor remained in Boston, they met frequently, and, in the intervals between the captain's coming and going, were constantly together. Victor was always the first to grasp the captain's hand on his return, and the last to -leave the ship at his departure.   230    VIC TOR LA TOURETTE. 'The captain had -already entered upon the Chris- tian life, and with a resolution and purpose that nothing could shake. His mind was now busy withl schemes for benefiting others. "I am- sure," said he in conversation with Victor some days before reaching Boston "that I can do a good deal for the sailors, :ann doubtless can best serve Christ's purpose by labors among them. There is no class of people that need more than-they relig- ious instruction, and none that more readily appre- ciate kindly interest and sympathy." Victor entered heartily into his spirit, and the two discussed many plans by which it was hoped the captain's purpose might beI promoted. It was finallyl decided, among other things, that a building should be erected as a sailor's home. Its plan was not then fully determined; but its design would be to afford i-est, recreation, assistancie, and instruc- tion. At Victor's suggestion, a subscription had been started on the ship, for the new building, to which all the sailors and many of the passengers had contributed. The captain headed the list, with an amount equal to his entire wages for the voyage. Victor arid Deschamps followed, with a sum of equal amount from each. The professor also gave liberally. So great an enthusiasm was awakened that it was thought a sufficient sum had been raised to warrant the immediate commence- ment of the work. Still another subject occupied their thoughts. The captain was anxious to be baptized; but there  o   END OF THE VOYAGE.       231 was a difficulty presented to his mind similar to that which Victor had encountered in relation to the ministry. There was no church, he feared, that he could enter without being compelled to 'subscribe uncatholic dogmas. It was hoped that the Episcopal Church would prove an exceptioni though that was as yet uncertain. Victor had preached frequently during the voy- age, and especially during the last week, in which he had held a service every afternoon, and had so powerfully persuaded the sailors and many of the passengers of the truth of the gospel, that all who had not already been baptized were willing and anxious for an opportunity to profess Christ before men. Besides his first sermon, and another on Christian manhood, he had devoted all his attention to an exposition of the parable of the Prodigal Son. The theimes he derived from it were: "The Household of God;" "The Temptation;"  "Sep- aration from God; "Riotous Living;" "Hell, or the Famine of the Soul; ' "Feeding the Swine, or the Servitude of Sin; "Coming to Himself, or Conversion; " "' Penitence, or the Return Home;" 6"Resurrection, or Re-entrance into the Heavenly Mansion." The sensational idea that had at first, in the minds of others, been associated with him on account of his peculiar views, gradually gave place to a serious interest in his preaching, inspired by his marked earnestness and sincerity; and this interest finally to a full conviction of his truth, through the persuasion of his resistless eloquence e, persuasion of   1 232    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. and reasonings. His preaching was supplemented by private conversations, which,' however, were never sought by himself, though he was always glad of the opportunities they afforded of meeting every objection and difficulty, and for suiting his teachings to each individual's necessities. The im- pressions he produced, though not accompanied with any excitement, were deep and lasting. Even Augustus, after listening to the sermon on Chris- tian manhoo0d, was deeply impressed. "I never heard religion defined as true manhood before," said he. "I always thought it just the, contrary, -a maudlin inmatter, which one could not have any thing to do with, without a long face, at whining tone, and a sheepish look. But if it means what Vie preached to-day, I shall think a good deal more of it than I ever have before." The professor was still non-committal. "I have a good many hard questions to ask M. La Tou- rette yet. There are some facts'that will be hard for him to reconcile with his theories, especially in relation to the Bible and prayer. But I don't care to interfere now. I wish him success most cor- dially, and I must say I sympathize with many of his opinions. I only fear he will not be as success- ful on land as he has been on-the sea." As for Mrs. Winslow, her, enthusiasm knew no bounds. Victor having used the Episcopal liturgy in all his devotional exercises, she regarded the -work that had been done as pertaining to the Episcopal Church. She was a good worker, and   END OF THE VOYAGE.       233 had already planned the organization of a society of ladies along the members of' her congregation, to assist in the effort to establish a Seaman's IHome. M. Gensonn., the Romish priest, had been al- most entirely lost sight of after his encounter with Victor. He kept aloof from all company, except of persons of his own religion, of whom there were some among- the passengers, and upon whom no impression could be made. They were careful not to listen to any thing Victor said, and, while not stirring up any noisy opposition to his work, had-- done all they could to thwart it by their personal influence. Garvey had become remarkably quiet, his former companions having one by one dropped off until he was left quite alone. His confidence, however, had not deserted him; andd only a whole- some fear of the captain, who, after the insult offered to Victor, had given him a private admo- nition, and had watched him closely, could have restrained his otherwise irrepressible nature. As for Reuben, he had become almost an object of pity; but, while clinging still to the Winslows in spite of all slights and neglects, and even of ridi- cule, his hatred of Victor, though carefully dis- guised, had gradually become more intense. This was the way matters stood on the ship on the day of its arrival at Boston. Before the sun had risen, all had come on deck eager to look once more upon the land, and many anxious eyes were strained to catch sight of familiar and ,loved faces    234'    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. they hoped to see again after a long separation. But the gladness of a safe arrival in port was not uniningled with sadness. Many pleasant acquaint- ances had been formed, and some warm and last- ing friendships contracted, during the voyage; and now the thought of separation,'perhaps never to meet again on earth, filled many breasts with sor- row. There is nothing more sad than separation. Even when those! in whom we feel little interest, but whose faces have become -familiar, pass from our sight, a shadow is cast upon our lives. The echoes of retreating footsteps, the fading from sight of a distant sail upon the horizon, the place where paths separate, awaken unhappy impres- sions. The- world is so wide, life so mysterious, and the future so uncertain and shadowy, that separation is associated in our minds with sad fore- bodings, loneliness, and loss. Still more sad are those separations by which ties of mutual love and sympathy are sundered. By association we seem to grow together. Our thoughts, emotions, and impulses gradually assimilate; and, if' minds are naturally congenial, the more readily they assimi- late,! and experience the more pain at separation. -We know not what -it is that unites soul with soul. Doubtless there are real bornds Which, though t invisible, intertwine our souls, and bind them to- gether. Though regarded as imaginary, they yet cannot be without substance, for otherwise even the soul itself would not be substantive. As the ship was'being lashed to the pier, the   END OF THE VOYAGE.       235 passengers engaged in a general shaking of -hands, / and the interchange of kind farewells and good wishes. Little Amie, who had been Victor's con- stant companion, clung to him to the last, and was quite inconsolable at the thought of parting. But her father, M. Derambert, a Boston merchant, was one of the first to come aboard; and her grief was, for the moment, forgotten in the joy of meet- ing him; but she insisted on running back again and again to Victor, to remind him of the promise he had made her parents that he would not leave Boston without- seeing them. The Winslows, the Deschamps, Victor, and Reuben, who could not be shaken loff; lingered after the rest had gone. SBut at last the Winslows drove away, leaving first arranged for an early meeting. Reuben soon fol- lowed. -Deschamps, Louise, and Victor waited yet a little time, that they might bid each of the sail- ors a good-by, who had gathered around them, eager to grasp their hands once more. They ex- pected, indeed, to meet again, for Victor had promised to hold a service on the ship once more; but they knew that, at the best, they must soon finally separate. Louise was deeply affected. She had become acquainted with all the crew, had learned the name and circumstances of each, and had manifested the greatest interest in them. I was told by the captain, many years afterwards, that she was never forgotten. During the time she remained in Boston, she visited the families of the sailors who were married and resided there;   236     V ICTOR LA TOURETTE. and each sailor's wife and child received from her some little souvenir that was always sacredly pre- served. "The names," said he, "of Victor and Louise are very common among my sailors' chil- dren." What was still more remarkable, not one, so far as he knew, had ever proved false to his profession of Christ. Not any profanity or vul- garity was afterwards known   among them, but each became sober, industrious, and economical. Many built comfortable homes, and reared families that it was a pleasure to visit. Their houses were neat, their wives smart and tidy, and their children well instructed. Some of them became officers of ships through their exemplary habits; and, indeed, Captain Holt's sailors became somewhat distin- guished in the commercial world, so that it was deemed a quite sufficient commendation for one seeking promotion, that he had sailed with him. J f      p , '   GA TES AJ yAR.       237 CHAPTER   XIV. GATES AJAR. THAT   afternoon Gus called at the hotel, in company with the Rev. Mr. Willoughby. The latter was a dark-complexioned young man of -about Victor's age, dressed somewhat daintily in a clerical suit of black broadcloth, spotless linen, and white neck-tie. He wore also a heavy enamelled cross suspended from a guard of the same material. His manner was a little stiff and affected, result- ing, no doubt, from the consciousness of his minis- terial office; but on the whole he 4eeimed kindly and affable in disposition.  Gus brought a note from his mother for Victor, which ran as follows: ' "My dear Friend, - How fortunate! The bishop is to be here to-night, and on a special mission to our chapel. He will be here over Sunday, and will preach, and confirm on Sunday evening. He has always been my guest, and will come directly here as soon as he M\  arrives in town. I shall tell him all about you when I see him, and, as soon as possible after his arrival, will arrange to have you meet him here. "I have spoken to Mr. Willoughby of you, but only , for a moment. He will call upon you this afternoon. "Adieu till we meet. "MAbIAIE WINSLOW." *  . i  ' ' .  "   238    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. They came in a carriage; and Gus invited Louise to ride with him around the city, and over to Cambridge. M. Deschamps had gone out on busi- ness, so that Victor and Mr. Willoughby were thus, left to themselves. '"Mrs. Winslow tells me," remarked the latter, "that you have some idea of taking orders in tihe Church."  "Stcha possibility has been suggested. I am, however, but little familiar with the polity of your church; and, until I become more definitely informed in relation to it, I shall not be able to decide posi- tively. Mrs.- Winslow writes me that the bishop is expected here to-day. Where does he reside?" "Our bishop resides in Newhuryport, where he is rector of a church, but i is now 111 so infirm health that I pfresume some other bishop Will officiato here."    ' "Is this a large diocese?  "There are as yet but few churches; but we are growing, and hope to develop into a strong diocese in' time. IMore men are needed in the ministry; and if you should join us, I have no doubt youl will be able to obtain a parish. The bishop thinks pf starting another mission here; and there are mlany large and growing towns in the interior where tile services of the Church have not yet been held. You have been confirmed, I -presume?" "'ot in the)'Elpiscopal Church. The thought of u niting with you has but recently been sug- gested, Your parishioner, Mrs Winslow, to whom a,       ,    GATES AJAR, ,       289 I was indebted for the use of a copy of your Lit- urgy in some services I conducted on the ship, first suggested the idea." Victor did not care to enter into full explana- tions then, being intent chieflyi upon making 'himself familiar with the history and practical workings of the American Church.   The first point really to be settled was, whether he and his friends could unite with the Church without being required to answer respecting matters of doctrine farther than appeared in the offices for baptism and confirmmation. "I understand you have a confirmation in your church on Sunday," he continued. "Yes, there will be a small class for confirma- tion. I should be glad to have you join it. Have you been baptized?"  "In the Romish Church, in infancy." ' There is ;nothing, thien, to prevent your being confirmed." "You do not baptize a second time then?" '"Oh, lio! We hold that baptism in any denomi- nation is valid; at least, such is the view generally entertained."                I "What'do you require in the matter of belief?'" - Mr. Willoughby took from his pocket a prayer- book, anld pointed out the form of questions and answers in the office for baptism. , ,  "Is that all you require?" said Victor. "That is all. We usually instruct the class for confirmation in a  course of familiar lectures in   240    VICTOR LA TO URETTE. relation to the obligations they are about to as- sume, and also expect them to be familiar with the Catechism; the Apostles' Creed, the Lord's Prayer, ad the Ten Commandments." ,-Do you not inquire as to their belief in the doctrines enunciated in the Thirty-nine Articles?" "Not critically, not at all in fact. Some clergy- men do perhaps, but it is not usual.'  "If, then, I should conclude to be confirmed next Sunday, no' questions would be asked me, so far as regards-matters of belief, but those set forth in the office' for confirmation?" Mr. Willoughby hesitated. He began to feel a little suspiious that- all -was not right. But, recall- ing what Mrs. Winslow had said of Victor, he replied:- "Mrs. Winslow, who is one of the pillars ofA my Church, spoke very warmly of your character and abilities. With her indorsement I could not hesi- tate to receive you into the Church." "Suppose I could not subscribe to all or any of the Thirty-nine Articles?" Mr. Willoughby again' hesitated. "Do you not believe all those articles?" Victor smiled. "You ask me a question before answering mine. I will say, however, that I have not very critically examined them. My question had no regard to the merits of the articles, but simply to the principle involved in their insertion in the Liturgy. And I do not inquire simply on , my own account.  The officers and the entire y   - 6  \ GATES -AAR.         241 crew of the ship in which I crossed the ocean, and also some of the passengers, are desirous of being baptized and confirmed in the Church, and yet they know very little of theology. They could assent to the simple questions in the offices for baptism and confirmation; but, if you should at- tempt to question them on the articles, they would probably be uncertain, and quite likely would be prevented thereby from uniting -with the Church. My purpose, therefore, is simply to ascertain whether you can receive us without questioning us further in regard to matters of belief than the office for baptism calls for." Mr. Willoughby was highly elated. He was very anxious to have a large class -for confirma- tion, because it would give him. distinction in the, Church. The number confirmed, indeed, was the chief test of a clergyman's success. But, after ;av- ing carefully canvassed his parish, he knew of only three young girls to be confirmed, and one of these was doubtful. The thought, therefore, that he might yet have the largest class that had ever been confirmed in the -diocese inflamed his imagi- nation with glowing anticipations. They would hear of it in New York and Philadelphia, and it might bring him a call to a large parish. 'You need have no fears at all," said he, "in relation to the articles. I never ask any questions about them. It is not expected that a candidate for confirmation should be instructed in all matters l of theology; and, if you and your friends will join "        P   242  .   ... VICTOR LA TOURETTE. 'my class I promise you that you shall not be cate- chised at all. How many do you think there will be?" "I have the names of more than fifty. Of these I am sure of about twenty-five. Probably there will be forty. Some, after landing, may change their minds, and soine may object to uniting with the Episcopal Church. The matter was left some- what indefinite; but, I have the addresses of all, and promised to communicate with them. A few may leave town .before Sunday; but most will remain, and some reside here." ' "What will the bishop say," exclaimed Mr. Willoughby, almost in ecstasy,'" when he :sees so large a class come forward for confirmation? And no matter if most of them are sailors; they will count as well as others. But I suppose the pas- sengers were mostly wealthy people?" Victor did not notice the interrogation. The two spent some time in looking over the namies of the passengers, and arranged to devote most of the next day in calling together upon them. They then went over to Mr. Willoughby's tstudy, where Victor spent some time in examining the canons of the- Church, and informing himself in relation to its history and present status, when they sepa- rated.  M. Deschamps and Louise had returned when Victor reached the hotel, and both were very anxious to know what Wras the result of his inter- view with Mr. Willoughby. Though they had, ;*    'GATES- AJA R.        248 themselves, very little confidence that he would find the Episcopal Church to be what he had anticipated, yet for his sake they hoped he might, lest otherwise the disappointment might have" a depressing effect upon his sensitive nature; for the more he had reflected upon the possibility of his uniting with that Church, the more probable had it become, until a disappointment would have been a severe blow. Louise, who had been watching his return, came forward to meet him, as he entered the door of their private parlor. And bef6oe their lips met, she had caught the joyous expression of his face. "I am so glad you were not disappointed," she said. "But you do not know, I have not. told you," he replied, passing his arm   around her slender waist, and looking down fondly into her upturned face. "How is, it, my boy?" said Deschamps, grasp- ing his hand warmly. "Have you found at last a truly Catholic Church?" A shade flitted over, Victor's face. "I have only had a little conversation with Mr. Willough- by, and been in his study a little -while looking over his books," he replied. "On the whole I am favorably impressed. So far as regards the Church itself, I ami convinced that it has the true founda- tion, and is very nearly Catholic. There is no more required for admission than appears in the office for baptism.  Exactly viy the articles should have been inserted in the Liturgy, I am not yet clear.   I  .           ,      .-   244 -   VICTOR LA TOURETTE. , 1 Doubtless they are a declaration of the belief that is usually held in the Episcopal Church; but, as subscription of them is not required for admission, they do not destroy the Catholicity of the Church." It really makes very little difference ,vhat Episco- palianseare, or what they believe, if the Church itself Jis rightly constituted, will receive all who believe in Christ, and is capable of development into the kingdom of heaven. As yet, however, I am not fully informed in relation to it. The bishop will be here to-night; and, after conversation with him, I shall be able to decide definitely." Victor then related all his conversation with Mr. Willoughby, and also gave them the results of his examination of the history and canons of the American; Church. Fortunately the captain came in, and, soon after, Mr. and Mrs. Dera/nber:t and little Amie. Mrs. Derambert was as firm as ever in her resolution to-unite with the Church, and she hoped her husband would also- unite with her. Her! children, too, she was desirous should bye baptized. Some of the sailors, so the captain said, had expressed great reluctance/ at being baptized by any one but Victor, and could not clearly understand why he should not perform the cere- mony; ,but he thought all would finally assent to any arrangement he should make, though it would be a great cross for them to go into the church, some never having been inside of any place of worship in their lives. After tea, Professor Winslow called, in company   f   !1   GATES ABAR.        ^ with two gentlemnen, trustees of the college. There was to be a meeting of the trustees on the Monday following, at which ,they would like to have M. La Tourette present, and bring his diplo- mas, as Professor Wihslow had suggested his name as instructor in modern languages. The gentle- men calling were Judge Pickering, of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, and Dr. Miller, pastor of one of the principal Congregational churches of the city. The judge spoke German, and Dr. i Miller had some knowledge of Spanish and Ital- ian. Victor, was at home in .either language, and, in f, in all branches of a university education,- and produced a very favorable impression upon his visitors. In the course of the conversation, Dr. Miller remarked, "By the way, Deacon Smith was ex- pecting a nephew of his on Captain Holt's packet, who has been an attache of the French legation. Was he aboard?"  -   ' The question was addressed to Victor, M. Des- champs being at the moment in conversation with the judge, and the professor with Louise, who was his special favorite. "Yes; he was one of the passengers." "The deacon tells me he is a very promising young man, and purposes entering the ministry of our church. Did you see much of him?" Victor colored slightly. "I made his acquaint- ance only formally. Professor Winslow and fam- ily saw more of him than I did." / . r?' ' . '               ,       246    YVICTOR LA TOURETTE. "Who was that, Doctor, of whom you were speaking?" said the professor. "'A nephew of Deacon Smith's, who was a fel- low-voyager of yours."' The professor's' countenance fell, and he would have renewed his conversation with Louise had not the doctor continued: "I expect to have him as a private student in theology. The deacon tells me he is a young man of great piety and learning." The professor nodded.  "What did you -think of him?" persisted the doctor.   ,              , "Well, really, Doctor, I do not know that I am a good judge of one's piety; and as- for his learn- ing, there was little opportunity of testing that on the ship. He preached one Sunday afternoon, and handled his theme quite adroitly. I should judge he had some ability; but the young people became better acquainted with him than I did." The doctor noticed that there was a little embar- rassment dn the part of Victor and the professor, and this served to quicken his curiosity. "I hope I shall not be disappointed in him. I am very careful what students I receive into my family. You say he preached once:. was there any thing, peculiar in his doctrine or style? Young men now-a-days are becoming imbued with latitudina- rian ideas. I cannot, myself, tolerate unsound doctrines in the ministry; and if young Smith has got any strange notions in his head during his residence abroad, or contracted any loose habits, I   TEjSAT  AE AR. R .t *  ., , shall-have to decline to receive him, even at the risk of offending his uncle." "Oh! you need have no fears at all on that : score,"' replied the professor, laughing. "' He is a zealous Calvinist, - I can vouch for that - and is strictly orthodox all through." l6 Why, Doctor," exclaimed the judge, in a ban- tering tone, "I do not doubt-you would be able to eradicate any heretical notions any of your stu- dents might entertain. At any rate I hope you will not refuse to receive Deacon Smith's nephew, even if he should entertain some progressive j ideas. The world mioves, and the Church must also move, or it will become only a relic of the past. 'I think, however, no relative of Deacon Smith is likely to. become very progressive in the- / ology." The judge was a Liberal in his views, and occu- pying an independent position, - the judges being appointed for life: unlike the professor, he was unreserved in the expression of his opinions. Doctor Miller did not quite relish his remarks, and hesitated for a reply. But the professor inter- - posed, humorously : - "Please do not start any theological discus- sion, gentlemen. You might get M. La Tourette a-going; and, when he begins, he does not stop till he has put all adversaries to flight or silence." ' Indeed I I did not know that it was possible to put any one, to silence in a theological contro- versy. Every creed I supposed could be defended,   .:248 '  7CTOR LA TOURETTE. if not by reason, at least by Scripture passages ad infimtumrn. My curiosity is excited." The professor saw that he had made a mistake' by connecting Victor with theological controversy, - the subject above all others he wished to avoid, - as he knew his chances of obtaining a position in the college would be slight if his religious views should become known. -' So he spoke up quickly, and before the- doctor could reply, at the same time casting a deprecating glance upon the judge: "I see what the judge is after. Don't let him draw you into an argument, Doctor. I was merely joking M. La Tourette. He has not yet joined any Church, but my wife has been trying to per- suade him to become an Episcopalian. By the way, M. La Tourette, I had almost forgotten to deliver my message. The bishop is at our house, and Mrs. Winslow requested me to bring you up there this evening to meet him." When the visitors rose to depart, Judge Picker- ing shook Victor's hand most cordially, and ex- pressed his hope that the college would be able to offer him sufficient inducements to secure his ser- vices. The doctor was polite, but less cordial. His suspicions had been aroused. He felt a little sore, too, at the remarks of the judge, and had,  : moreover, previously determined that no more per- sons, of doubtful orthodoxy should be engaged as instructo s in the college, if he could prevent it. I         , a   GATES BOLTED    .    '249 CHAPTER XV. GATES BOLTED. "T BEG your pardon for my allusion to our theo- logical controversies," said the professor, as 'he and Victor left the hotel together. "I do not understand how I could have been so imprudent. Judge Pickering is a great controversialist, and nothing delights him- more than a conflict in re- ligious questions. In a moment more, if I had  i not given him the wink, he would have drawn you out. You understand my motive in desiring to conceal your religious views, which would nei- ther suit the orthodox nor the liberal elements in the college. Of course it will be proper for 'you to declare your opinions whenever the occasion / mav require; but just now it would be injudicious. It could do no good, and might detract seriously from your future usefulness. ;When the time comes for you to speak out, you will be in a positionlto maintain yourself. At present, however, I advise you to be cautious. We want to liberalize the college; butiwe have to exercise some prudence, as the Puritan influence is dominant at present, Should you unite with the Episcopalians, you will be in a good position, as they occupy a middle "*  .         ,    25o0    VcrTO   LA TOURETTE., ground. There is a strong prejudice against them, it is true, but not so uncompromising ais that which is felt on the part of the orthodox elements to- wards the Liberals. In fact, the Episcopalians are almost entirely overlooked in this controversy that has lately sprung up, and which is becoming every Eday more interesting." "I am very grateful," -said Victor, "for your kindness, apd for the interest you have taken in me. I would really like to obtain tthe position in:the college, that I may have- time to look around and determine at- my leisure my future course; a and, so long as silence is all that is required, I think I can be prudent. Of course, if I enter the college, it will not be for the purpose of teaching religion, but the modern languages, and I should really have no occasion and no right to teach any thing else. But I do not know that I can honor- ably conceal my views from the bishop, who will probably questioni me closely." ' The ,professor made no immediate reply, and they walked on for a time in silence. At last he spoke somewhat hesitatingly:- - "I do not see why you should make a confidant of the bishop. He is not your father confessor, and has no right to inquire into your views farther than may respbct your admission to the Church. And I understand you are as yet undecided whether to apply for orders or not. ' I think I would say as little on the subject as possible."  "But I am fully decided to enter the Episcopal I    -  GATES BOLTED.    ;  2 Church, if it is really as Catholic as it now appears to me to be." "Oh! you need have no fear. Episcopalians are not very strict in regard to the requisites for admission. It i; my impression that the bishop has nothing to do with the candidates for admission, except as a matter of form." By this time they had reached the professor's residence. There were many ladies and gentle- men il the parlor when Victor was introduced, who had called to pay their respects to the bishop; and what was his surprise to see among them Reuben Smith sitting beside a fine, elderly man, whom, by his clerical dress he inferred at a glance to be the bishop. Mrs. Winslow came forward with even more than her usual empressement to greet him', and with much vivacity introduced him to the company, and first to the bishop: "I am glad to present M. La Tourette, a much esteemed friend and one of my own countrymen," she said. The bishop arose, and received him with formal courtesy. The company probably did not notice the slight reserve in the bishop's manner, though Victor's impressible nature detected it at once. It wa's not his patronizing air, nor the result of a common Episcopal conceit, for these were to be expected, but a certain uncharitable expression of the eye, that Victor noticed. , A nod was the only sign of recognition that passed between him and Reuben. }       ,   -   252     VICTOR LA,-TOURETTE. A lively conversation ensued. The first question asked him was how he liked Boston. One com-, plimented- the French nation for its sympathy and aid in the revolutionary'struggle. Another ex- pressed surprise that he could speak English with so little foreign accent. He heard a ma- tronly lady inquire of Mrs. Winslow if he were married. The visitors, however, did not linger long, as it was already late when he arrived ; but long enough to enable him to judge-of their general character. Of course they were Episcopalians, and a fair illustration of what Episcopalians were. They: were, for the most part, stylish and fashionable people, refined and agreeable in manners, though 'not generally highly cultured; and there were some whom he designates in his diary as parvenus, but whom now-a days we should call " codfish." There was much said about the Church, but little about religion. Plainly their estimate of religion was limited -to their conception of the Church as it, was. It -was the Church,- all other Protest- ant bodies orily sects. And it was the Church, not from its Catholicity, but because it was believed to be from the original root. Its spirit and pur- pose were not considered, but its form only. It had retained the three original orders of the min- istry; its clergy had been episcopally ordained. Apostolic succession was the one thing requisite to constitute the Church, the key of the kingdom of heaven.  It was, therefore, just as Catholic as   GA TES BOL TED.       253 the Roman Church, having the same foundation. Another denomination, no matter how Catholic in spirit, or bow fruitful in works, could not be Cath- olic, because it lacked the apostolic succession. In short, this seemed to be their idea, that they were all going to heaven through the merits of ;their Church, derived from apostolic succession. This had tended to give them a disagreeable con- ceit, blind their eyes to the real spirit and purpose of Christ, and make their religion merely cold and formal. Victor was chilled and disheartened. "He heard no noble sentiments uttered; no liberal and pro- gressive ideas were advanced; no warmth and glow of real charity animated and inspired the hearts of the people. On the contrary, they seemed to be of narrow sympathies and illiberal views. He could not tell why it should be; but evidently, so far as he could judge from this brief interview, the Eng- lish Church in America was narrow, bigoted, and E superstitious,-judged from the character of its people. It'was the aristocratic and fashionable Church. It was exclusive and snobbish. It!was heartless and formal. Its spirit was cold and con- servative. There was in it no spirit of liberty and toleration. It sneered at democratic ideas. It had no sympathy with any reform. In conversation with Deschamps, Victor had learned of the movement for the emancipation of the slaves, and had come to sympathize. deeply with it; but he heard fall from the lips of a gen-   225%4   vICTOR LA TOURETTE. tieman present, who he afterwards learned was the senior warden of the church, an expression of con- tempt and disgust for all abolitionists. Reuben had been one of the first to leave; and, when he was gone, Mrs. Winslow whispered that she had not invited him there, but that he had made his call ostensibly upon' the bishop. , It was with these impressions that Victor found himself alone with the bishop, who began the con- , versation abruptly:- , "Mrs. Winslow has informed me that you desire to have a conference with me in relation to bec'om- ing a candidate for holy orders." He spoked in a restless, hurried way, as if it were a matter he wished to despatch as soon as possible. His tone, too, was superior, and calculated to repel any confidential advances.        i Victor was slightly touched, and rose to his feet at once, '"I presume, sir, you are very much fatigued this evening. Another occasion will do as well, when you feel more at ease." "No: bishops never have any leisure. Please be seated. This is the most convenient oppor- tunity, -possibly the only one." Victor had often met with Romish bishops, and had always experienced from them the greatest kinfdness and courtesy. They were, for the most part, devout men, hesitating at no sacrifices: neces- sary for the promotion of the interests of their Church, and, though clothed with great authority, were most amiable in their bearing towards their  * *  ' *     '  '  i   GA TES BOL TED.       255 clergy. If this Protestant bishop was a fair sam- ple of the rest, he thought there was nothing to be gained by the exchange. As eveni faith might be dead, so even the Church, though Catholic in form, might be dead also. Plainly neither these people nor their bishop had any conception of what Christ's purpose and spirit really were. A living body, however deformed, was more useful than one dead, however symmetrical. What the Episcopalians called "sects" might yet be more useful to Christ, though deficient in form. What did reformation mean? Simply stripping Rome of its tinselries and fond conceits? Was the spirit^- of Christ of no consideration, if only his dead body were retained? Fortunately, however, Victor had, to some ex- tent, anticipated these impressions, and so endeav- ored, to restrain himself on this occasion. No matter what the .spirit of the: people might be, he had determined: to accept the Episcopal Church, if its capabilities were the same as those of the original. Why should such people be permitted to monopo- lize the Church, which was the -common heritage of all who believe? Would it not be cowardly for him to refuse to enter its portals because others not in sympathy with its purpose had possessed it? Was not this the true battle-ground upon which the conflict must b1e fought? Did Christ refuse to recognize the sacredness of the temple, or stand aloof therefrom, because it had become a den of thieves? Did he not, in fact, enterit for the pur-   :Z 256"  VICTOR LA .TOURETTE.         i pose of expelling the money-changers and all'who had made it? a place 'of traffic? So he sat down,-as requested, though with re- luctance. . The bishop repeated his question: "Do you desire to become a candidate for holy orders?" "Such a thought has been suggested to me." "Do you mean that you are not. clear in your imind in relation to your inward call? A thought of enftering the ministry would hardlybe sufficient evidence of such a call. Do you think you have been I called of the Holy Ghost to preach and administer the sacraments?"  "I do not know that I have had any peculiar experiene,--certainly none of a supernatural character, From boyhood it, has been, my purpose to enter the ministry; and'I was only prevented from doing so by scruples Us regarded the Catho- licity of thelRoman Church." "As regarded its Catholicity? I suppose there is no question as regards the validity of the orders of Rome. I presume you mean you could not accept its tenets. A similar cause was the occa- sion of the secession of the English Church. So far, very good. But we were speaking of the inward call, which in your case does not seem very satisfactory; and -I do not think one should enter the ministry unless specially called to the: work."   t "What do you understand by a special call?" "Excuse me; it is not proper that you should ' -^   GATES BOLTED.-        257 ask me questions. I am desirous that you shouldl give me the evidences of your cHll, that I may judge of their sufficiency." Victor's face flushed. "I think you misappre- hend my position, sir.; I am not now applying to 'be received as, a candidate for orders, but only seeking information., Upon, the character of that information will depend my future action in the matter. Yet I think I can say now, in order to avoid any future, misunderstanding, that. I should not, under any circumstances, give my personal religious experiences and emotions. If I seek the ministry I shall do it honestly, and should be desirous of the fullest and closest scrutiny of my past history, of my moral character, and, of all my acts and qualifications. But so far as regards my private emotions, or my opinions on theological questions, aside from the essentials of a Christian faith, I should decline to answer any questions in this connection." The bishop was quite astounded. Besides, his dignity was wounded.  "Do   you not recognize my authority to ask you any question I choose, or to insist upon any qualifications I deem requisite for the holy office you seek?" "Certainly, so far as regards the essentials of the Catholic faith, but you have no discretionary authority, any more than  the successors of St. Peter have; and so cannot insist upon my  reveal- ing my private emotions and opinions. Discretion- ary power has never been   conferred upon any S    .      ,   ,         U    28     VICTOR LA: TOURETTE.  tribunal of earth, but pertains only to God. And, indeed, this is the information I seek; namely, whether I can be admitted to the ministry of the Church in the, manner and form prescribed in the canons and in the offices of the Liturgy, and with- out being required to subscribe the Thirty-niine Articles, or to answer to any questions respecting private doctrinles or emotions." "You cannot," said the bishop with emphasis, and in a-tone of sarcasm. "Indeed, sir, I am amazed at the misapprehension you evince of our character and polity. Doubtless your proper place is with lthe Unitalians, - certainly not with us. "Then you claim discretionary power similar to that which the Bishop of Rome exercises?,-" 4 I claim the power," said the bishop, somewhat imperiously, " to exclude any person I choose, from the ministry of this Church." "From what source do you derive such power?" "It is inherent in my office, sir." "Does your office confer upon you any power other than was delegated and defined by Christ? '" "It is delegated and defined by the Church." "I have seen io such authority delegated and defined in any rubric or canon. But I may have overlooked it. If, however, the Church has con- ferred upon you such power,-I confess I have mis- taken its character and polity. If, according to the whim, caprice, prejudice, or private opinion of any bishop, one with the requisite qualifications,     *       i   -      ;   CGA tES BOLTED. -    ,  259 E: and honestly seeking its ministry, can be excluded, I was mistaken in supposing it to be Catholic." "Your language, sir, is not respectful. I have,  not asserted that I could exclude one on such  grounds." "Pardon me, I understood you to say you had discretionary power, and could exclude any one you chose, and that I would,not be received. Please explain why you would exclude me, and why you define my proper place to be the Unita- rian ministry." "It is needless, sir, to enter into explanations.  I will say, however,-that your inward call does not appear to have been satisfactory; and evidently, from your refusal to be. questioned in relation to your private opinions, your views must be un-  sound."  "Do you think I am not a believer in Christ,  and that I cannot assent to the Apostles' -Creed?" ; "I cannot say; but there is mulch more re- quired."    , "Do you think I am deficient in education and  natural ability, or immoral and irreligious in char- acter? '"       . "I did not refer to your ability or moral char- acter." And yet you say you would not accept me as a candidate for orders, should I apply?"       - "I said you could not be received without first i being subjected to questionings to determine your   ; fitness.         . *r.       - '.'-f \  '    -   i ' - ^.;'7   - 2600 -   ICTOR LA' TOURETTE. "I did not decline to be questioned in relation to essentials. On the contrary, I am quite willing to answer all inquiries respecting them." "What do you- call essentials?" "Whatever is necessary to salvation, - the same that was required of a clndidate for baptism in the early Church; namely, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, such a faith as will lead one to obedience and good works." "Do you not believe in each and all of the Thirty-nine Articles?  "I decline to answer here,- though I have no dis- position to disguise my opinions. The articles are not Christ, nor -is 'faith in themi faith in Christ. They were set forth neither by Christ nor by his apostles, but by uninspired men, whose opinions are no more infallible than those of the Pope of Rome. Satan himself might believe them    all. And further, neither by the rubrics nor canons is one required to subscribe them i' "But- they are the doctrines of the Episcopal Church."  "Not if the Episcopal Church is a Catholic Church, as she claims. They are the doctrines of the uninspired individuals who framed them, and not necessarily of the Church. They maybe true, however, and I -may believe them all; but for the sake of the principle I decline to answer whether I do or not."  " For the sake of the principle? What d o you mean by that .?   GAiTES BOLTOED.       261l ' "I mean that Catholicity - that charity, breadth, and universality that would have all to be saved, and that would comprehend all believers in Christ in one fold and under one Shepherd - is absolutely essential to the constitution of the Church. Though I may believe all those articles, yet another may doubt every one of them, and yet be as firm and true a believer in Christ as I amt. And if he should be required to indorse them before being received into the Church, they would exclude him, and would in so far thwart the purpose of Christ. They are lot, therefore, Catholic. They may be true, but are not essential, representing as they do merely the opinions of uninspired men." "But the Church evid'ently expects all who would enter her'fold to believe in them; and I as her representative have not only a right, but am required, to exclude any person of unsound doc- trine."  "The Church is Christ,- not the people who are in union with it; and, as he has never required   subscription to these articles, you surely will not claim the power of enforcing them. Who" shall determine what is unsound doctrine?  Do you claim infallibility in settling all the disputes in'i theology?"  "Then you believe in tolerating all heresies in the Church?" "I believe in tolerating all honest differences of opinion. Heresy does not consist in doubting the infallibility of the Thirty-nine Articles, but in sub- -,            - -      .   - 0Ad   VICTOR LA TOURETTOE.     , version -of the vital, essential, and fundamental principle of the Church, which is faith in Christ; and there is no other heresy, though there are a thousand false doctrines of men, originating from ignorance, prejudice, and uncharitableness." The bishop betrayed in his nanner great irrita- tion. ' Your views, sir, are exceedingly loose; and I think our interview may as well terminate at once." "Then you call Catholic views loose, and would exclude me fromr the Church because I entertain them?" "I merely say that one holding your views can- not enter our ministry. Indeed, after what I learned of you from Mr. Smith, it was quite un- necessary that any interview should have occurred at all."' Victor arose at once. "Well, sir, if I cannot, enter the ministry, it is because I am excluded by the exercise of an arbitrary, uncatholic, and tyrannical power on your part; and I assure you that, liaving refused obedience to one pope, I cer- tainly shall not submit to another. Good-evening, sir."   ' At that moment a servant entered with refresh- ments, and Mrs. Winslonw appeared at the door. "Going so soon?" she exclaimed in surprise. And then, noticing the flushed face of Victor and. the indignant attitude of the bishop, she stopped in blank amazement. "The bishop and I are so much at variance in our   vhtjij.3 jjFILE . T     263 , views," said Victor, calmly, " that it is needless to prolong our interview." The embarrassment was so great that he made haste to withdraw. Mfrs. Winslow followed him to the door, and said in a low tone,- "I am so sorry it has turned out so. I had set my heart upon your uniting with us. And Mr.   , Willoughby will be dreadfully disappointed." Victor walked slowly towards the hotel. A fierce tempest was rang in  his breast. "Hypo- crites! do they actually think this whited sepul- chre is really the Church Christ died to establish? Why, if Christ himself should, return to earth and apply for admission to the ministry, this high priest would exclude him. What person of any manliness at all would consent to be questioned authoritatively of his private emotions or opinions? No wonder the clergy are what Deschamps says they are,-mere fawning sycophants, their preach- ing to sinners, like the barking of well-fed house- dogs at the beggars on-.the. street. I will have nothing more to do with bishops or priests. The Church, so called, is a den of thieves; and the farther J keep myself from it, the happier shall I: be. If in it, I should always be tormented with  its narrowness and intolerance, to say nothing of , its worldliness and sin. Served, me right for at- tempting to conform to the ways of this Babylon of the world. I feel as if I had fallen down to: worship a golden calf. I would die sooner than submit to such arrogance and impertinence again."   ,264    VZICTOR LA TOURETTE. Here the thought came into his mind, ' What shall I do? Somehow he sickened at the idea of preaching without regular ordination. He recalled his purpose to enter the Episcopal Church if it were on the true Catholic basis, whatever might be the character of the people that were in it. "It is true, I have as much right there as this bishop has. There must be a system, an outward visible form of the Church,; and plainly the Episcopalians hive that, though. they have no adequate concep- tion of its purpose and its possibilities of develop- ment. I would I were in; it is my true position without doubt; and I can go nowhere else. 'What shall I do? I am good for nothing,- utterly impractical." His spirits sank within him. The old feeling of depression after great excitement, and when his sensibilities had been wounded, came upon him, though he strove fiercely against it. Passing an isolated building, over the doorway of which was written in gilt letters illumined by a lamp, "The Wayside Inn," a beggar clamored for charity, - an old man with a besotted face. Victor paused abruptly. The beggar began his story with great volubility, the story, perhaps, he had told for years to the passers-by, --had been sick, wife and children starving, - could not get work. Victor hesitated. He would not encourage beg- gary, still less refuse a needed charity. A little questioning convinced him that the man sought only the means of ministering to his depraved appetite.   GA TES BOL TED .      265 The beggar finally grew angry, and cursed him as he turfned away. Two men, coming out of the inn at the moment, paused to listen. They were Reu- ben and Garvey, and both were slightly intoxi- cated. "Oho!" exclaimed Reuben, "here is our great reformer." "Oh, his hit?" and Garvey peered around in- sultingly into Victor's face. ',Hi wants ter git my grip on 'im. Hi'll take ther starch out er 'im." "Take care[" said Victor, fiercely, thrusting aside Garvey's brawny hand. A coward at heart, Garvey shrank back, startled at the-fierce spirit with which Victor' confronted him, and which was wholly unexpected. Reuben affected to interfere. "It won't do, now, Garvey; let him go."' Victor walked away slowly, and  with a firm step. "Here are some pennies, old man." Reuben spoke loudly. "I'll show my faith by my works." j The beggar clutched them eagerly, and, mutter- ing a blessing upon the giver, hobbled towards the inn. The two   then followed belhind Victor, insulting him by their conversation, purposely carried on in a loud tone,that he should hear it. 'Coarse, brutal natures not only seem to know instinctively what to say and do in order .to wound the sensibilities of those who are delicate and refined, but to espe- cially delight in this kind of torture. 12   266   -VICrox LA TOURETTE. "Say, Garvey, a'n't La Tourette a g-r-e-a-t theo- logian? ' ',Ha'n't -'e? Why, the 'postle Paurl wa'n't nothin' ter 'im." "Didn't you know he was a g-r-e-a-t reformer?" "Whew I Yer don't say!" '"Won't there be a crowd when he begins to preach here? It will beat Paul in Athens." - Won't hit be jolly w'en 'e gits ter our town? That nice coat er his ul be spiled has'ther old habolitionist's was." But the reaction in Victor's mind from the extreme depression he had previously felt to the fierce resentment with which he had met Garvey, prevented the derisive words from troubling hiem. On the contrary, he was now altogether' indifferent to any tling his enemies might say, and walked along lei-surely, ratherj slackening his pace than otherwise, while they adjusted their pace to his, so as not to approach him nearer. When he reached the porch of the hotel, he remained standing in the bright moonlight. Reuben and Garvey stopped short. There was something in his manner that intimidated them, and they turned back, not dar- ing to pass him. He knew that Louise would be waiting for him in the parlor, but he could not meet her yet. He sat down, with the moon shining full upon him; and, as he gazed into its face, a strange j6y and peace gradually possessed his soul. The depres- sion that had followed his interview with the   GAATES BOLTED.       -267 bishop had been dispelled by his encounter with Reuben and Garvey.-  The two influences had neutralized each other in his mind as two con- flicting waves produce a calmhn. His manhood had asserted itself against the weak despondency of a momentary disappointment, and which too often induces noble and sensitive natures to shrink from further conflict with wrong and prejudice. "Neither this conceited Pharisee nor the wag-. ging heads of these brutal men that just crossed my path shall deter me from my purpose," he said. "The, Episcopal Church is on the true. basis. I cannot resist that conclusion. At any rate, it is as nearly Catholic as the Apostles' Creed, which is near enoulgh for now. It must, despite the world- liness and' pride of its members, -be capable of unlimited development; it must be -the Church of the future. lWhy should I be discouraged at one failure? There are other bishops than this, - possibly. none so bigoted asl he; and, if I cannot enter at present, I may hereafter. I can bear any thing, I tlink, now. All I need is more cool- ness; and I am not bound to tell the bishop all my views, --especially when not asked, or when he transcends his authority,-forthat would be. cast- ing pearls to swine."  He was becoming more practical. He had no disposition, and never could have, to compromise with wrong or prejudice; but he began to com- prehend that without the exercise of a certain discretion he could not make the best of his oppor-   268    EvICTOR LA TO URkETrE. tunities. Christ's spirit was not uncompromising in this sense I He conformled to the ,law, paid taxes to Caesar, ate with publicans and sinners, and even tolerated the kiss of the traitor who betrayed him, while at the same time lie did not abate his efforts or his purpose. There was need of patience, of waiting his opportunities. lie did not regret what he had said to the bishop, -would say the same again in similar circumstances; but he was ashamed that he should have taken the matter so Imuch to heart as to be ready to renounce his purpose of entering the Church. To enter it he had not only an undoubted right, but was impelled thereto by a sense of .duty. But why were its people so illiberal? Was, it because there was so little of the -spirit of liberality and tolera- tion in the world? Plainly not. His success on the ship in iconverting so many to Christ was evi- dence of this. The truth was that many of the most progressive minds kept aloof from the Church on account of the bigotry that was in it, thus sur- rendering the body of 'Christ to his enemies. It was plainly the imperative duty of every lover of Christ to enter the Church; and enter it, too, not only for the purpose of placing himself in proper relations to it, but also to restore to the Church its proper relations to the world. Any person not in the Church, who finds fault with it on account of the imperfections of its members, ought to be ashamed of himself. It proves his own neglect and indifference that he is not, in it, laboring for   GATES BOLTED.        269 its purification. Every person, to the extent of his influence, is responsible for what the Church is, whether he be inl it or not. Christ died to estab- lih it, and is inseparable from it; and his purpose in the world can only be accomplished through this agency. Still, Victor's position was most embarrassing. Exactly how to accomplish his object was not clear. At last he rose up and entered the hotel. Though it was past midnight, a light was burning in Deschamps' parlor. Louise was still waiting for  him. He knocked gently at the door; but she had heard his step, and her hand was already on the knob. Yet she did not meet him with that -eagerness of expectation that some lovers encounter when they return from   a doubtful mission, and which makes it so hard to bring back disappoint- ment. She met him   always gently; and   now, when he pressed her heart to his, she seemed for- getful of all things else but his love. Peirhaps she read, at the first glance into his face, his experi- ences of the evening; for it was ever to her an open book, and revealed his thoughts like a spirit face. And so she seemed for a time to have for- gotten all about the  bishop, she had  so many pleasant things to ,tell him. He must see her work, - the handkerchief she had embroidered for the captain's wife, and  the little things she had purchased for his children. In such an atmosphere Victor could not feel his disappointment very keenly; but at last he said: -   270     VICTOR LA TO2URETTE. "But 'you do not ask me about my interview with the bishop. It was a complete disappoint- ment." "Did you feel very much disappointed?"This was spoken almost indifferently, as if she did not think he could. Why, Louise, I believe you do not care much about my perplexities in this matter. Do you?" She leaned her face against his.  I am sorry you were disappointed. Did you really have it much at heart to enter the Episcopal Church?" It was easy, now, to tell her all about it. In- deed, they made quite merry over the recital. But gradually their conversation became more serious, until the whole situation was discussed, and Victor's plans for the future were settled. Louise gently intimated that he had been too hasty in his iconversation with the bishop.  She even attempted to excuse the latter, who, of course, had all sorts of people to deal with. And she laid particular stress upon his not having understood Victor's ideas fully, at least not till he had become somewhat irritated.  His mind, too, had been already prejudiced by Reuben Smith, who had doubtless greatly misrepresented Victors views. And as for Episcopalians, she did not doubt they were about like other people, certainly not worse. Most people were proud and worldly. He could not expect to find many in sympathy with bis views. It was his mission to teach the Church Catholicity; and, if all were already Catholics, he   GA TES BOLTED.       271 would have no special work. Christ, came to call not the righteous, but sinners, to repentance, "What do' you think I. had better'do now?" said Victor. "Mr: Willoughby was to ome here to-morrow, togo with me to see my friends about joining his class for confirmation." "God will point out the way," said Louise, in a low voice. "When he has already done so much for us, we cannot hesitate to trust him for the future."   272    VICzTOR LA , tOURETTE. CHAPTER XVI. 6 COMPEL THEM TO COME IN." . W1LLOUGHBY had been around among 'his parishioners, and had been very success- ful in obtaining additional names for his class for confirmation. The encouragement Victor had given him had inspired him with an enthusiasm which he had imparted to others wherever he had gone. Some who had hesitated before, not liking to go forward to be confirmed alone or with only one or two others, hesitated no longer, when they Were informed that the class would be very large; and even Augustus had begun to think seriously of uniting with the Church. But when the young rector heard from an adjoining room the termina- tion of Victor's interview with the bishop, he was flled with dismay. The professor, too, who had. set his heart upon having Victor appointed instruc- tor in modern languages in the coiege, became alarmed. As for the bishop, he was seriously offended. His dignity had never before received so rude a shock. It wa's bad enough to have his authority questioned, but to be compared to ethe Pope of Rome was more than he could endure. nHe must,   -"COMPEL THEM TO COME IN."     273 - however, necessarily say something to relieve the embarrassment, though, when he spoke, his voice trembled.  "I regret--regret exceedingly, Mrs. Winslow, that I find your friend not qualified to become a candidate for orders. His theology is quite un- sound. Besides, he was not as respectful as one seeking admission to the ministry should be to his bishop. In fact, he seems rude and ungentle- manly." Mrs. Winslow's French blood flushed her face. "Indeed, Bislop, M. La Tourette is a gentleman of wealth and refinement. I certainly should not have introduced him  to you if Ihe were not; and"-               . . The professor, klznowing his wife's quick temper, had hastened in as soon as the bishop had begun to speak, and here interrupted her:-- "There must be some mistake, my dear. I am afraid that meddlesome Reuben Smith has misrep- resented our friend to the bishop. I hope no unpleasantness will arise." The bishop was a good deal startled by Mrs. Winslow's "words. It would not do at all to have a quarrel with this hostess. It would make a fear- ful scandal in the community, and was not to be thought of. He was, therefore, glad of the oppor- tunity of putting the responsibility upon another. "Thank you for the suggestion, Professor. I hope Mrs. Winslow   will pardon me. Mr. Smith 'did say some very severe things of your friend, 12*      .    a274 VcCTOR I   - TOURETTE. and which, doubtless, led me to misjudge him. Ah, Mr. Willoughby, I am glad to see you. I had not noticed'your presence before." All was soon lovely again. The reaction in Mrs. Winslow's temper: rendered her even more vivacious than usual The bishop, too, became extremely affable. He listened with great atten- tion to the professor's guarded exposition of Victor's theology, and professed, at least, to become greatly interested in him; and, when Mr. Willoughby also made known his relations to the class for confir- mation, he even expressed a desire for another interview, when he hoped the unfortunate/ misun- derstanding would be removed. Victor slept soundly that night; and, when he opened his eyes to the sunlight the next mnorniig, \he felt that something joyful had happened, even before he was sufficiently awake to recall the ex- periences of the previous day. When, however, he did recall them, his spirits drooped a little, but he still ifelt, strong and confident. Going down to breakfast, he heard voices in Deschamps' parlor; and, pausing to look in, he saw Mr. Willoughby in lively conversation with Louise. / "I (Good-morning, Mr. Willoughby..  The young rector sprang up at the sound of Victor's voice, and came forward hastily. He had expected to find his new friend in any thing but an amiable mood. :Besides, a kind of awe had been inspired in his mind for one who should have dared . to arouse the anger ofa bishop. a Indeed, he rather  , .   "COMPEL THEM TO COM o     .E ." 275 dreaded meeting him, and had prepared to over- whelm him at the outset with the most conciliatory and pacifying expressions, before he could have time to utter any surly or uncompromising speech. But the happy tone of his voice quite reassured hillm. "How do you do?  Why, how do you do?" --and both laughed heartily, though neither knew exactly what to say. Louise helped them out of their embarrassment. She began joking Victor about rising so late. It was past nine o'clock, and he would have to breakfast at the second table. Victor hurried away in mock alarm, but came back in a moment. "Willoughby, come down and take a cup of coffee with me, and we can talk over our matters." ' When the two were seated, Victor introduced at once the subject uppermost in their minds,. "What success have you had canvassing for your class for confirmation?"  "First-rate. I have eight additional names since I saw you; and, best of all, I think Gus will come. He is a good fellow,-- a first-rate singer; and, if I can only get him into the Church, he will be a--great hlelp io me."  "Glad to hear it. I began to fear your confir- mation would be almost a failure when I found I and my friends could not come in. Did you hear how my interview with the bishop ended?" "Yes, I   heard all about it. That is what brought me up here so early. But it is all right.   276    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. now. You've got two good friends in the professor and his wife. Nothing but a misunderstanding. There was a mnan there by the name of Smith; you know him. Well, he made all the trouble. But the professor explained your views to the bishop. , It was just a misunderstanding,- that's all.". ' You don't really think he will take me in now, after what has passed, do you?" "Of course he will." Then, lowering his voice, ",He could not help himself any'how. He has nothing to do with my class except to confirm it; and it is his duty to confirm any persons I present who are able to make the proper responses. All that is needed is to humor him a little. The truth is, he is very Low Church.; I don't belong to his party; but of course, as he is a bishop, we have to get him to officiate in confirmation. Bishops really have but little power in this country, - mere machines. They can 'make some annoyance at times, especially for' one who is entering the min: istry; but, if you are once in, you are as indepen- dent as they in your theology." "You quite surprise me. Are you sure he will not interfere if, I present myself for confirma- tion?"  "I am certain of it. You had better not see him at all in the mean time. Hie will keep quiet. The truth is, he is afraid of the Winslows, who are the chief support of the Church here, and might tale it into their heads to go over to Freeman; and I have sometimes thought, myself, they would go."   'COMES  tEM TO COME IN"     2" "Who is Freeman?" "He is the rector of -King's Chapel, the first Episcopal Church here, but which is now virtually Unitarian. He was chosen reader soon after he , graduated, stipulating, however, upon his accept- ance, tthat he should be permitted to omit the Athanasian' Creed. But he finally became a pro- nounced Unitarian in his theology; and so, when he applied to Bishop Provost for ordination, the bishop refused. The Church, however, stood by him, and so became independent. The loss of King's Chapel was a great blow to Episcopacy here, and has tended to make us cautious." "I infer from  your saying the bishop is Low Church that there is also a High Church party?" "Yes; I am  reckoned a High--Churchman, be- cause I bow in the creed and observe the saints' days." "The one have Romish and the other Protes- tant tendencies, I presume?"  "That is the general impression, though  not strictly true. , But you need have no fear of par- ties. You need not belong to either unless you choose. And, now I  think of it, I presume, from the little I know of your views, that you would be classed among latitudinarians, or Broad-Church- menl,." b What are they?" "Well, I   hardly/know, myself. There are a great; many of them in England, and now and then one here. They are a   kind of free-thinkers or *       278    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. philosophers; excellent Christian men, of course, and very learned and progressive, though not very popular."- A thrill of delight shot through Victor's breast. He comprehended the situation perfectly. The Catholic Liturgy was bearing its fruits in spite of all bigotry. Surely, if Freeman's congregation had stood by him, the Episcopalians as a class could not be very bigoted; and, if latitudinarians were. tolerated, there must be some degree of liberality in the Church. But here a thought was sug- gested, and he inquired:- "Why are such men unpopular?  (TI do not know that they are unpopular in England, for they have good livings there. In this country they are not strong enough to exert much influence; and their ideas aire novel and startling. In fact, I do not know of a single pronounced Broad-Churchman here, though doubtless some covertly hold latitudinarian views." "Is it not because they are in advance of the age? The pioneers in all reforms have been un- popular in their day." "' Perhaps so. -But I am not a proper judge in this case, as I have no sympathy at all with Broad- Church ideas."  h, thy should there be fewer Liberals in the Church here than in England?'" "I do not know, unless it be that the Church is yet so weak in numbers, or that; there has not yet sufficient time elapsed since its establishment here ,    'COMPEL THEM   TO COME INV."  279 to develop all the various schools of theology. Freeman was a Broad-Churchman; and, if he had not declared his views till after ordination, he would doubtless still have been in the Church." "Is there not less culture here than in England? and has not the prevalence of Puritan theology Q  tended to, make the Church more narrow and con-  servative?"       '  "Perhaps so; for, unless we can make it appear to the people that we are as Protestant and ortho- dox as other denominations, we should hardly be tolerated at all."  "That, I think, was a mistaken policy, and accounts for your weaknless. If, in the first place, you had taken Catholic ground,-a position of antagonism to the dogmatism of both Rome and Geneva, -and, instead of rejecting such men as t Freeman, had invited them into the Church, your final ascendency would have been assured; for a reaction against both Romish and Protestant super- stitionll and bigotry is sure to occur sooner or later. Indeed, from what Professor Winslow has told me, I infer that it has already begun. The Church is Catholic, and why should not its people be Catho- lic also?" I agree with youi that we erred in attempting to conform to Puritan theology; but the Low Church party is responsible for this. Our very name, 'Protestant Episcopal,' is the standing proof of the compromising and timid policy that prevailed, at first. But we probably should not' agree as to   280     VICTOR LA  TOURETTE. what is, Catholic doctrine, as you are a ,Broad- Churchman, while I am High.'\  "Are the High more tolerant of differednces of ' opinion than the Low?" "No at all; but so far as toleration is concerned that is not properly a word that pertains to our theology, but only to rites and ceremonies; for if one has been regularly ordained, and does not vio- late the rubrics and canons, he must necessarily be tolerated."  "Are there no trials for what is regarded as heresy?"   .  "There maybe in extreme cases, but they are very rare. The Church is broad enough to contaii within its fold all Christians." Victor was more than satisfied. He felt that he could conscientiously enter the Episcopal Church, in spite of the general narrowness, and bigotry of the people. Without doubt, Mr. Willoughby had presented the facts couleur de rose, and he6 under- stood from the first his: motive; but it yet seemed plain that here alone could real Catholicity be asserted and maintained. "Come," said' he, spring- ing up with alacrity, " we must be going if we visit all my friends to-day. I will do all I possibly ;can to persuade them to join your class, and I hope we shall not be disappointed."  The ambitious young rector was again full of bright anticipations. The two returned to the parlor, where they found Gus and Marie, who had just come in. 5  .  ;     t   -      '- "COMPEL THEM  TO COME IN."    281 I 'We will begin our work right here," said Victor. "Here are four for confirmation. Mr. Willoughby has persuaded me to join his class, and I hope he will be as successful with the rest." He then sat down and signed the paper that Mr. Willoughby had brought, and which contained the names of his candidates, and then 'handed-it to Deschamps., The latter's face flushed slightly, but he affixed his signature without hesitation. "Will you- sign now?" passing the paper to Augustus.    f The light, cheerfj 1 tone that Victor had main- tained prevented any embarrassment. "Are you going to sign it?" said Augustus, turning to Louise. -  "I have not yet been invited." This brought out Mr. Willoughby.   He did hope Miss Deschamps would not decline to affix,' her name. He was sure she would never repent such a step.  The Episcopal Church was, without doubt, the true Church, -he verily believed the only true Church. She would find the society congenial, most intelligent and  refined. Were there any difficulties in her mind? Perhaps she : thought she was not spiritually prepared for such a step.  One should, of course, be sincere; but the efficacy of the sacraments was sufficient to atone for all imperfections of our nature. Once in communion with the true Church, our salvation was secure, if we remained faithful.  Deschamps became exceedingly restive. Augus-   282t    VICTOR LA I OURETTE. 2'82'  ,L       Too tus began to look ashamed. , Victor saw that there was danger of losing what had already been gained. ' Baptism," said he, " is a straightforward, manly declaration to the world of faith' in Christ, and a covenant whereby we promise on our part to do his will, and he promises to aid us."  "t  Ys,'" said Mr. Willoughby, " and it is also the regeneration of our nature, by the Holy Ghost." c; He means that it is the beginning of a public Christian ife. Regeneration means the beginning, the genesis of a new life; that is, if the covenant is Centered into sincerely, and the promises are kept. He does not mean that there is any miraculous inwrought change of nature effected at once. But, Mr. Willoughby, we must hasten, or we cannot get around to-day, and so cannot discuss theology." Louise whispered to Gus, who came gallantly forward and affixed his name. At this, Marie clapped her little hands in great glee. "We won't quarrel any more now, will we, Gus?" Louise followed, though with a pallidi face and trembling hand. Mr. Willoughby began a con- gratulatory speech, but Victor hastened him away. The captain and his crew were overjoyed to see Victor; but they did not seem well impressed with his companion, who, when introduced, shook their hands daintily with the tips of his gloved fingers. The; captain, to whom Victor first made known his errand, manifested but little enthusiasm. Taking his friend aside, he- said: "Any thing you decide upon I shallt do my best to carry out; but I fear * ] ,    , COMPEL THEM   TO COME  N."  -283 that I never can persuade my men to go up to the church to be baptized by this young man. You had better get them together, in the6 cabin and explain matters before you go away. I will enter- tain your friend on deck in the mean time." Victor went into the cabin, and, at a motion from the captain, the other officers and sailors fol- lowed him. He reminded them of their former profession, and expressed confidence that all were still true to Christ. They crowded around him, some with tearful eyes, to assure him that they had not changed, and never would change, their purpose. He t;hen spoke of the large contribution- that had been raised to establish a seaman's ihome and mission, and said they were to be the practical founders of it. They were to be the first mem- bers; but it was necessary that they should first become members of the Church by baptism and confirmation, when they could, if they chose, form with their wives and children a separate congrega- tion. It did not make any difference who baptized them. Their public declaration of "faith in Christ was what was required. Mr. Willoughby was at heart a very kind man, only he was not used to sailors, never having met them before. It was for Christ's sake that he asked them to unite with the Church. He'told them how dear the Church was to Christ, and what was his purpose in it. Would they not all come in, and do their part in carrying on the great work? 'They asked him' a great many questions about   284    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. \.   , the ceremony of baptism, and he explained, all they would have to do. Still they were reluctant. They could not understand why he should not perform 'the ceremony. But at last one of the officers signed the paper, and then all consented that theii names shouldlbe affixed. Still there was evidently so much reluctance that he had great misgivings as to the result. Going on deck, he found the captain quite un- settled in his purpose. His conversation with Mr.  Willoughby had filled him with 'positive aversion to the Church. "You must not judge of it by men," said Victor. "Christ died to establish it; and his purpose in the world can only be accomplished through its agency. The Episcopal Church, so far, as regards its members, is as full of religious conceit and bigotry as any other; and yet in its nature it is Catholic. You enterdit by a declaration of belief in the Apostles' Creed,- the simplest formula known in Church history,- and by promise in, baptism to do the will of God. i should prefer a simpler formula still, but am satisfied with this as the best that can be had at present. There is nothing in it that the most Catholic Christian can- not indorse, though of course it is possible to con- strue it in a narrow sense. Thete .are, perhaps, more liberal people than Episcopalians, but none who have so Catholic a system. Indeed, I am con- fident it is on, the original basis, and capable of development into the plan and purpose of its- "      ,   '  " $  ? * }      .   "COMPEL  THEM  TO COME IN.'   285: Founder. Our relations to the Church need not be ,at all dependent upon the character of the people. Is it not our duty to enter it, and strive to realize in it and in ourselves what Christ sought to accomplish?" "Well, well," replied the captain, the shadow onl his face for the moment giving place to a more cheerful expression, "I will think about it, and- I do not doubt all will come around right. That my men are in earnest about this matter you cannot doubt, since, as you see, they have all kept to- gether as you requested, though many of us who live some distance from Boston are anxious to get away, as our vacation is short. -We are all desir-. ous of making a public profession of Christ, and I think we will be at the church at the appointed time. But if we are not there promptly at the hour, do not wait." "But don't fail, Captain. It would be a great gridf and discouragement to me, should you not be there."  Tears came into the captain's eyes, and he grasped Victor's hand tightly: "t I shall not fail in faith: you may be sure of that; but I cannot prom- ise certainly to come into this movement now." Victor went away with a heavy heart.   He begah himself to be half sick of the business. Not that he wavered in his purpose, for he had no Ireason to do ubt the correctness -of hi's previous conclusions; but he felt oppressed with that re- pugnance which many true lovers of Christ feel to   .V  . .  YV.\^Jl\., I J./.JL J. I ( 1.Z..I . --^' the details of religion, as presented in the practices of the churches, and which constrains them not unfrequently to keep aloof therefrom. No matter how true and manly their motives may be, they cannot be wholly insensible to outward and humil- iating influences. - How often is it said that such men lack courage to come forward and profess Christ in baptism! and in fact they do often feel a shrinking and shame they cannot overcome. But it is not shame of Christ they feel, nor of his gospel, but of the weak, drivelling sentiments and superstitions associated in the public mind with the act. Mr. So-and-So is " under conviction," or hasp6 "experienced religion," or has: "met with a change of heart," or " has becoine pious "- and all similar expressions fill their minds with aversion and disgust. The assumptionj too, of goodness and piety of those who think they have been "regenerated," and their Church conceit anal self- righteousness, excite repugnance .and contempt. To be called " inipeliitent sinners" by canting hypocrites, to be " labored with " by unreasoning zealots, to be treated with supercilious scorn by proud, cold-blooded formalists, is more than men of ordinary spirit and manliness can endure, however great their confidence in the truth of the gospel. The two walked along in sience for a time. The young rector was not aware of the impression he had made upon the 'sailors, but he had not enjoyed- his interview' with them. "You seem to have obtained great influence   .... -   '-a, ^rzA J g ' J 0 over the captain and his crew," he remarked at last. "But I must say I never should have patience to labor among so rough and ignorant a class of people. And to tell you the truth,I have great misgivings about receiving tthem into the Episcopal Church.   The Methodists are better fitted to labor among this class, as our people are too intelligent and refined to associate with them. I aln really, afraid to haye them come into the Church, lestj they may girve offence. I suppose, however, they will be more tidily dressed, when they present themselves for confirmation, than they were to-day."  Victor's first impulse was to return to the ship and advise his friends to keep away from Episco- palians and  their Church for ever.  But, he re- strained himself in accordance with his previous purpose. ' This is an unfortunate confession you make, Willoughb y, -that the Episcopal Church is not comprehensive of all conditions of men. No wonder Wesley marked out a new and independent course, and   became, though  unwittingly, the founder of a7 new sect. But I apprehend that the fault is not in the Church, but in the people. Otherwise it could not be Catholic.  But, to set your mind at rest, I  assure you that my sailor friends will bring no disgrace upon your Church, either through  ignorance or untidiness. Mrs. Winslow is much interested in them, and  has, perhaps, informed you of a plan set on foot during the voyage to establish a seaman's home." *'   -ZO   .. f2VICTOR LA TOURETTE. Mr. Willoughby seemed  more at ease after Victor's words, though not at all enthusiastic. 4' I wish you were tp perform the ceremony instead of me," he remarked; "for really I fear it may be embarrassing.'         - ' You must not show them any disrespect," said Victor, with a little acerbity in his tone. "They would resent it fiercely, for they are sensitive and high-spirited. I think I should say, in order to put you on your guard, that their chief objection to being baptized was, that you were to perform the ceremony.  Not that they had any objec- tion to you personally, but that your style was too reserved to please them. They are the most frank and generous people in the world, and make the warmest and truest friepds; but one must be on familiar terms with them to be popular. I ex- , plained your reserve, however; and, if you take a proper interest in them, have no doubt you will find them of great assistance in your work, - that is, if you seem to reach with the influences of the gospel all classes of people." The rector sought to change the conversation. His-companion's words awoke no enthusiasmn in his breast. "I presume those we are to visit now," he said, "are a different class of people, and that I shall feel more at holne. What! are you going in here?' "he exclaimed, in great surprise, and with evident mortification, as Victor stopped, i at"the door of a plain boarding-house. "C This is the street and number Mrs. Derambert *  ;? :!   J,- VAd 'A A4F   C(.,f IN."  Zoy gave me, and I remember she' said she was board- ing temporarily. I presume they are a plain fam- ily, but you will find them warm-hearted and intelligent. " The summons was answered by the landlady in person, -- a stout middle-aged Frenchwoman, her broad, good-natured face and bare arms. covered with perspiration, and- bringing with her to the door the ,aroma of the kitchen and a bevy of rol- licking children. She was somewhat abashed at first at sight of the two young men, and did not seem   to understand Victor's inquiry for Mrs. Derambert. But Amie, who had been frolicking with her children, came running in wild delight to meet her old friend, and little Pibrre, with eyes-- gleaming roguishy through his tangled locks, fol- lowed close behind her. Neither of the c6hildren's faces were quite clean; but Victor bent down and kissed them, and, lifting them both in his armns, carried them into the house. The rector followed reluctantly.  He was exceedingly chagrined and embarrassed. "I  can'lt stand this, La Tourette," he  said, in a low voice and with a flushed face, when the landlady had gone to call Mrs. Deram- bert. Victor laughed. "Of such is the kingdomi of leaven,"' he said, passing  his hand over the flaxen heads of the children, and glancing at the throng of mischievous elves that hung around the door- way, and peered in with curious eyes upon the visitors.  13         s     4   ' - . '- ' '        ' i' "   . -"                 "   290    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. The rector was not of an unkindly disposition. He tried to laugh, but his tone was derisive. "I suppose so," said he, " but they have a very earthly look." '"Of course they will romp and get soiled, but I never saw more beautiful children. What an ac- cejssion they would be to your Sunday-school, Willoughby! Here, go and speak to the gen- tleman;" and Victor gently thrust the children towardls his companion, hoping to put him in gobd humor before Mrs. Derambert should appear. "This is Mle. Amie, one of my best friends i and this is Master Pierre, a very brave little boy."  But the children drew back shyly. Pierre hid his face on Victor's knee, and' Amie shoolk her head contemptuously. "I don':t like him a bit," she said. 6"You see iyour chances are ruined, Willoughby."' At this moment Mrs. Derambert herself ap- peared at the door, --a sweet, sunny-faced woman, plyainly but neatly dressed. She shook hands en- thl siastically with Victor, and greeted his friend wiih a quiet grace, when introduced. "I am sorry you find my children so untidy," she said; "but they would be unhappy if they  d could not romp with the rest. We have a very kind landlady; but I shl be glad when awe can afford to keep house. My husband has but re- cently started in business here, and we find it necessary to be economical." Victor expressed an earnest hope that her hus- band would succeed.   Or +,- C- ^.iJA 4 :,.ZVZ -fI GU t "I think he will," she said. "He is not easily discouraged. And, indeed, ,our income is already more than it was in France, where my husband was only a clerk.. He came over to establish a branch house here for his employers, and has suc- ceeded so well they have now given him an inter- est in the business." . While she was speaking, she was arranging Pierre's curls, which, by a few skilful touches, were .restored to order. Fortunately, her husband came in at the time, it being near his dinner hour, He was a small, active man, very Frenchy in his manners and conversation, and, of course, polite and overflowing with good humor.  But nothing could break up Mr. Willoughby's stiffness and reserve. Victor was quite in despair, and even thought of taking his leave without elluding' to the subject that had brought them there. At last, however, he ventured to intro- duce it. Mr. Derambert said he had not seriously thought of uniting with any Church until his wife had sug. gested it and urged it upon him. He had been gto the Episcopal Church a great many times since he had been in the country, and had liked the service very much; but the people had seemed so unso- cial that for a time he had been going to the Meth- odist Church, where he had cfound the people to be very much in earnest and very warm-hearted. They had often urged him to unite with them; but he could not conscientiously say that he had   292    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. experienced what they called a change of heart, or that he believed in their doctrines. What his wife had told him of M. La Tourette's sermons on the ship had set him thinking, and they had discussed the subject of religion thoroughly. If there were !a truly Catholic Church anywhere, he would like to unite with it. Mr. Willoughby assured him that the Episcopal Church was Catholic. It was sound in doctrine, and had come down from the apostles. As for the MethodiSts, they were iere fanatics and religious enthusiasts.  "But they seem very sincere, and are certainly doing a great work among the poorer classes." Victor began to grow uneasy. He saw that if the merits of the Churches were to be judged by their works, there could be no good reason shown n why any person should become an Episcopalian rather than a Methodist. Taking an Episcopal Liturgy from his pocket, and turning to the office for baptism, he said, "This is the ground of our claim for Catholicity, -that the conditions are so simple, and yet comprehensive of all that is essen- tial." Mr. Derambert read the questions and answers over several times, and then said: c; There is noth- ing in this to which I could not conscientiously assent; but is there no private examination held in relation to other matters of belief, and also as regards the fitness of the applicant spiritually for admission to the Church?"   "COMPEL THEM   TO COXIE IN." 1  29 "None at-all. That is all that is essential. God 'alone is the judge of one's spiritual fitness. If no more was required by the apostles, no more is requisite at the present day.', "But do you think it is essential that one should unite Tith any Church at all? Cannriot one lead a Christian life, without?"  "Christ died to establish the Church on earth. It is his kingdom.  Without it his ultimate pur- pose in the world cannot be accomplished. It is not surprising, therefore, that he should require all His followers to unite with and uphold it." "Do you not think one can be saved otherwise?" "That is a question we should not consider. If we enter the Church  simply to save our lives, doubtless we shall lose them, for this would be a selfish motive. We should enter solely as a matter of duty, -to promote Christ's purpose, -to save others, and not ourselves. That spirit of self- sacrifice for the good of others that led Christ to die for men can alone make us one with him.?' "You astonish me. I never heard such a view advanced before. But it strikes me favorably. It looks reasonable, and explains that passage in the Bible I never could understand before: ' For who- soever shall save his life shall lose it; but whoso- ever shall lose his life for my sake and the gos- pel's, the same shall save it.' But I should judge that very few do really enter the Church from any such motive."  "I fear that is but too true.- And thiis accounts   294     VIC"TOR LA TOURETTE. for the intolerance, dogmatism, and bigotry there are in it. The motive that impels most to enter being selfish, it produces pride, narrowness, and : hypocrisy. It accounts, also, for the superstitions universally prevalent in the Churches, not the least of which is an idea that holiness is infused by the sacraments, or by some superhuman agency inde- pendent of personal knowledge or effort. Some think that, by baptism, or by the manner in which baptism is administered, their nature is so changed that they will be received into heaven. Others think that in parpxysms of excitement the Holy Ghost changes their hearts, and makes them ac- ceptable to God. But, in fact, the only way of getting to heaven is by following Christ's example, carrying forward his work, fulfilling his purpose, and being animated with his spirit. By personal effort to benefit others, and by aspirations for that which is above, are souls born into the heavenly life, raised from the dead, new creatures." Mr. Willoughby - became restive.  His face flushed, and he seemed on the point of interrupt- ing Victor several times. Butt the latter continued speaking with such emphasis and so hurriedly that no opportunity was given. "Now, if -one really believes in Christ, it is his duty to go before men and tell them so. This he can do in baptism, and in no other way; for this is Christ's appointed method. Baptism is the be- ginning of a public Christian life, the symbol bf Spiritual purification. It is called regeneration;   "COMPEL THEM   TO C OME      295, that is, the begetting of a new life,--the genesis, or beginning, of a new immortal manhood. If you are determined to enter upon this new life, and are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, then I hope you and your wife will come forward with us to-night."           , "We will," exclaimed Derambert, springing up and grasping Victor's hand.  "I see my duty clearly in this matter, and shall not shrink from it." The rector was quite amazed at Victor's words, and, as soon as possible, began to express his dissent.  I don't agree at all "- "Come, Willoughby, really we must be going. You can explain all that hereafter,"' iterrupted Victor, rising hurriedly. . So, shaking hands warmly with Monsieur and Madame, and kissing the children, he hurried his companion out. s When they were on the street, he hurried along at a rapid pace. '-See here, Willoughby, it is 'past one o'clock; and we shall not. have time to see half the rest on my list, unless we- hasten." "But, La Tourette, this is too bad. I am afraid you are getting me into trouble. Your doctrine is --I was going to say monstrous. It is certainly unheard of. I really don't know as I ought to receive people into the- Church with such ideas." "Oh'  you can give them such instructions as you like afterwards. Let me manage this matter. These people are my converts. I am simply taking you at your word. This is the test of the sincerity I '  i   296    V VICTOR LA TOURErTTE. of your statements. You said there was to ble no catechising, and that the Church was broad enough to receive all who believe in Christ." "Yes, Hdid, butI--did not anticipate such views. They are altogether strange'and unheard of. Men not enter the Church for the purpose of saving their souls? Really, -La Tourette, that is too much."  - ' Well, we will argue that question at length hereafter. Certainly it will do no hurt to enter the Church from an unselfish motive,-for the good of others. But if you really regard this as so serious a matter, it is not too late to shut the door against me and my friends. Freeman will, perhaps, receive us- or, if not, we can form a congregation of our own." The rector walked on in silence for a time. The temptation of a large class for confirmation was irresistible; and yet he feared his reputation would suffer therefrom. He, shuddered at the thought of any suspicion attaching to him of unsoundness in doctrine. Finally he said: "If you will agree not to compromise me at all, I will assent that you have your way. Nothing must be said publicly, that will be likely to get to the bishop's ears. Doubtless it can be managed' so that he will know nothing about the matter. And, in fact, I have not said any thing myself, that I should fear to have repeated." Victor smiled grimly. "No, there is no danger at all of your being -involved in the guilt of my a,  *,.e   -"COMPEL THEM, TO COME IN.",    297 heresies, if you are yourself sufficiently pru- dent.  But' if, contrary to your promise, you attempt any catechising, I shall withdraw; for I will not enter the Church except on Catholic prin- ciples."  "Very well. 'Of course I need not say any thinrg, except to instruct those who have never been present at confirmation, in relation to the order of the ceremony."      e "That is all that is necessary. It is proper, however, that you should, if you see fit, give a little exhortation to faithfulness, - though I hope your remarks will not be so churchy in tone as to disgust any who may not have been fully brought to think that it is impossible to enter heaven unless qne of your bishops has had his hands upon his head." "I will be as cautious as you could wish, I assure you, trusting to your honor not to expose me."                   * Every thing went on smoothly after this, the I rector appearing more at ease in their interviews with the people. He even seemed to have be- come imbued with the most liberal and Catholic spirit, and made no objection to any, though they encountered almost as many shades of re- ligious opinion as there were persons visited. I One doubted that there was a hell in the next life at all; another, the doctrine of the Trinity, as stated in the formulas ;' another, that all the books of the Bible were authentic; and another, while believing E               ,  i    298    VICTOR LA TOURETL'. in the future life, could not say that he had no doubt of its existence. One was a strong Calvi- nist, another- was Arminian in his views. The rector was quite pleased with one, who had very high notions in relation to the sacraments. Most, however, would start out as Low-Churchmen. All were firm in faith, and all ,were Catholic, so strongly had Victor persuaded them: of this while on the ship. Of course there was surprise mani- fested that he should have, decided to enter the Episcopal Church; but, by calling their attention to the office of baptism, all were easily persuaded of the correctness of his choice. And, fearing that the bishop's sermoni at confirmation might be nar- row and dogmatic, he particularly charged them not to be prejudiced by any thing they might hear or see; for they must rmnember that as the Church was Catholic, there was entire liberty of opinion in unessential and ddubtful matters. Not one individual in the Church, nor all together, could., change its character, as Christ had established it.  ,! ' i :. 1 ;. ..   BAPTISM AND CONFIRMA TIO.     299 CHAPTER XVII. BAPTISM AND CONFIRMATION. TT was near six o'clock when Victor reached the hotel; but he did not feel:weary, so deeply absorbed and interested had he been in his work. The experiences of the day had confirmed him in the course he had marked out the night before; and had quite driven away all morbid impressions that had resulted from his interview with the bishop. He felt that he had become a more prac- tical man, and could, now that it was clear what course he should pursue, overcome every obstacle. Deschamps was alone in the parlor. Louise, he said, had gone down to the ship early in the after- noon with the captain, and had not yet returned. The latter had -come up in great perplexity, to talk with them in relation to the approaching baptism. He said that after Victor and Mr. Willoughby had left the ship, so strong a prejudice had been developed against the latter that a very great reluctance to be- baptized by him had been ex- pressed, - so great that he feared not 'one would come forward that evening.  As for himself, though he had not signed the paper, he felt that it was his duty to profess Christ before men, without,   300      VIWCTOR LA TOURETTE. delay, and had endeavored to persuade his men to go forward with him; but could not overcome their prejudice. They ssaid they iwould wait till Victor had become a minister, and would then be baptized by him. But le thought that, if Louise would go down with him, she might overcome their reluctance, as no other person-not even Victor himself,-had so great an influence over them. "But I think it is all right now," he added; "for I have just received a note from her, saling that she would not be back to tea; but would meet me at the church."' \  After tea, Victor's friends began to come in, as , i it had been agreed that they should meet him I there before proceeding to the church. "A who were married, were accompanied by their wives or husbands and children, and the gathering soon became lquite joyous and enthusiastic. Not one was absent, and some brought with them friends and relations. When they reached the church, they found it already nearly half full. A rumor that there was to be a large number baptized brought many to- gether. Quite a sensation was caused by the- entrance of so many at once. Headed by Des- champs and Victor, the candidates went forward and occupied the front seats that had been re-. served for them.         The rector was evidently much excited. His yoice trembled as he whispered to Victor, "The   BAPTISM AND CONFIRMATION.      801l bishop will be here. He heard of. the baptism, and I could not avoid inviting him to be present. What shall we do?" 'No matter. I do not see'how there is any trouble to be apprehended from him." Just then the Winslows, accompanied  by the bishop, came in. The latter went directly to they' vestry-room, and was soon followed by the rector. Victor was in grealt suspense lest the captain and his men should not come; but, just as the hymn had been given out, the sound of many foot- steps was heard at the door. Turning to look, he saw Louise, leaning upon the captain's arm, just entering. He thought he had never seen her look so beautiful as sle walked with inimitable and unaffected grace up the aisle. She manifested no embarrassment, except that the slightflush habitual to her face wsas somewhat deepened.  Her dress exhibited the most refined and delicate taste, and fitted exquisitely her slender and graceful form. As for the captain; his appearance was stately and dignified. He could not have been more imposing and self-possessed had he been pacing the deck of his own vessel. The other officers and sailors fol- lowed; some of themn with -their' wives and chil- dren, all neatly dressed, and each bearing in his hand a prayer-book that had been purchased for the occasion. The rector had been in great trepidation, fearing, most of all, the effect, upon his fashionable congre- gation, of the advent of the rough sailors. BBut   802     vICtOr LA   TOURETTE. his anxiety was dispelled when he, saw them enter. They caused, indeed, a most profound sensation. The bishop had read the two first lines of the hymn he had given out, but paused abruptly in the reading to look upon the imposing cortege. There was a deep hush for a- moment after all had found seats, when he again announced the hymn, ,and, with  a fine, impressive voice, recited  it through:- "'Soldiers of Christ, arise, And p'ut your armor on, Strong in the strength which God supplies Through his eternal Son. Strong in the Lord of hosts And in his mighty power, Who in the strength of Jesus trusts Is more than conqueror. 2'  Stand, then, in his great might, With ll his strength endued; And taki, to arm you for the fight, The p noply of God,- That having all things done, And all your conflicts past, Ye may behold your victory won, And stand complete at last." Tile singing that followed reminded Victor of his first service on the ship. The voices of Augus- tus and Louise were prominent in the first two lines. Then the sailors, who were accustomed to be led by them, caught the inspiration, and joined in, wild and high.  The effect was tremendous. Passers-by on the street paused to listen.  Some came in, and many gathered about the. door.   BA PTZ AWD CCONFIRMATION. r. When the singing was through, the bishop sat- down, and Mr. Willoughby came forward to the font, He was very much agitated, and, for a mo- ment, was unable to speak. Victor, who sat front, seeing his embarrassment, stood up and whispered to him: "Many have brought their children. Will it not be best to baptize them first? It will give all a chance to recover from their embarrassment, and will take up so much time that the bishop will- not be likely to make any remarks." His confident and familiar manner helped to re- assure the young rector, and all went on smoothly afterwards. Eighteen children were baptized, and nearly double the number of adults. When the baptisms were through, the rector-announced the confirmation for the next day, and, after giving some formal instructions to the candidates, made haste to dismiss the congregation. Victor felt quite as much relieved when the service was through as the rector; for he had feared something would be said that iwould disgust some of his friends. All had come promptly forward, and had made answer to the questions in-the ser- vice without hesitation.  Himself, Deschamps, Louise, and several others had been baptized in infancy, but all stood upltogether either as candi- dates or sponsors. The captain was baptized first. Augustus followed, much to the joy of his mother, who was his sole sponsor, the professor declining to take any part. After the service, the bishop came forward and shook hands with seeming .'orO!-   3844  - IzCTOR LA TOURETTE. diality with Victor, and was introduced to Des- champs, Louise, the captain, and all the rest -who yet lingered. The young rector was overwhelmed with congratulations. The members of his con- gregation, especially the ladies, gathered around , him, and bestowed upon him all manner of com- pliments. Like most other young ministers in similar circumstances, from that evening he was spoiled; and a spoiled minister is one of the most weak, pitiable, and helpless of human beings. Haying lost -his manhood and independence, he becomes really of little use to the Church or to the world, a mere parrot or puppet set up in the pulpit for ornament and admiration. Many sought introductions to Victor, Deschamps, Louise, and the captain; but the rest were mostly neglected. The con firmation the next day was equally suc- cessful. Never before had so large a class'been confirmed in Boston, and probably not in the whole country. The bishop's sermon fortunately wag indifferent; but his address after confirmation so disgusted the captain and some others, that they would not have been confirmed, had they not been already. It was devoted in part to matters of Church ceremony, but chiefly to the necessity of continuing sound in doctrine. They should teach the catechism constantly to their children, and should read and study carefully the Thirty-nine Articles; and he particularly warned them against latitudinarian tendencies. Both sermon and address X,   BAPTISM AND CONFIRMATION.      05 were full of Church cant and insipid platitudes; and yet after the service, Victor overheard a lady say, "What a beautiful sermon and address!"- laying a particular and. long-drawn-out accent on the " beautiful." A gentleman said in reply, "Yes, a very powerful discourse. The bishop is certainly a very able man." Victor wass amazed. Except- ing the fine voice and imposing presence of the bishop, there was no merit- in his preaching. Not a single striking or original thought was developed,  and none of the real spirit and' purpose of Christ was manifest. ; As Victor was going out of the church, he 'was accosted by Judge Pickering, who had been at- tracted, as many others had, to the, church that morning, to witness the ceremony of confirmation. The two walked along together, their routes lying, in the same direction. After some general obser- vations, the judge said, "I was quite surprised to see you among the number confirmed to-day. Though Professor Winslow had said his wife had thought you would: make a good Episcopalian, I hardly supposed him serious,-only striving to throw dust in Dr. Miller's eyes. From what he had previously hinted, and has since said, in rela- tion to your views, I hardly thought you could unite with the Episcopal Church." "You expected me to become a Unitarian, I presume," said Victor, smiling. 't Well, -yes, I did, - or at any rate not to take sides against us. The bishop's allusions to us were " ] \ . / ' 'T     .    806    VICTOR LA -OU;REPTE. quite uncalled foir; and, in fact, all he said to-day was exceedingly weak and narrow ,in my estima- tion. And it was this same narrow and dogmatic spirit that compelled us to secede from the Episco- pal Church."      ' ' Then you were once an Episcopalian?" ' Yes, King's Chapel was originally an English church. It was, in fact, the first Episcopal church in America, but is now the first Unitarian; and I am greatly mistaken if other churches do not ;follow our example." "I think, I understand your feelings in relation  to the Episcopal Church, and I fully sympathize with you in your aversion to the spirit manifested in the- bishop's remarks. But you do not under- stand myr motives fully. I judge the Episcopal Church, as I do all others, by its Catholicity, and not by the spirit of its members. In uniting with it to-day, I professed faith in the Apostles' Creed, and in nothing else. That there is no more re- quired, renders the Church, so far as faith is regarded, very nearly Catholic. Without doubt, your people are far more liberal than Episcopalians, and I doubt not I should be better received, and feel more at home with you; but I do really be- lieve you have no permanent foundation or system. The first requisite of a Church is belief in Christ, which, I fear, you have seriously impaired. Doubt- less, had you remained in the Episcopal Church, you might have made it broad and Catholic; but by withdrawing the leaven of Catholicity you have left the lump cold and lifeless."   BAPTISM A ND CONFIRMArION.      807' "I admit there is some truth in wmhat you say,"\ replied the judge.  "I have myself doubted whether we had any permanent foundation' or system. Doubtless if the battle-for religious free- dom could, from the beginning, have been fought out within the Chturch, more would have been accomplished in the same time; for the multipli- cation of sects has been one of the chief impedi- ments to the progress of Christianity. But, if there is any guilt or indiscretion in schism, it attaches equally to the Episcopal Church; for it came off from Rome." "I think not," said Victor; " for in its separa- tion from Rome it did not attempt a revolution, but a reformation. Rome was not -the original Church, any more than the Church of England. Both rested on the samle foundation, and both were alike corrupt. By rejecting what Rome had arbi- trarilyi and without'authority introduced, the Enj- ' lish reformers did in fact, if not in design, restore the Church, in a measure at least, to its original simplicity."  "Do you really attach any importance to apos- tolic succession, so called, and upon which Episco- palians lay so much stress?" "It is important only as a matter of order, unity, and systematic and permanent development. It has no sacred significance, and is not an absolute essentiail of Christianity and the Church. All that is absolutely essential is that the Church, as an individual Christian, should be as its Master."   808-  :  VICTOR LA TOURETTE, "I would like to talk with you farther on this subject," said the judge in a confidential tone, as they were about separating. "If there were really a Catholic and apostolic Church, I should be glad to become a member of it; but I cannot think the Epiocopal Church is such. I feel certain its spirit is narrow and sectarian, and I think the posi: tion I occupy, in the present state of Christianity, is the true one."  "You may be right," said Victor. "Indeed, you are right so far as regards the outward aspect of the Church. I confess I had some misgivings and reluctance in the step I have taken to-day. But I have endeavored to act'conscientiously; and, look- ing to the future, -to the ultimate end and aim of the Church, which is unity in Catholicity,--I am confident it is the duty of all true Catholics to take their stand on the original foundation."   ! '    -   XA WEDDING.        '809 CHAPTER XVIII. A WEDDING AND TWO STRANGE GUESTS. :T HE next morning Victor had another and pro- tracted interview with the bishop. Though both were very guarded in their utterances they succeeded in making each other well understood. One was Catholic in theology, and the other styled himself Evangelical; and hence they differed less in regard: to what was true than in regard to what was essential. Both believed in the Trinity of God, in the Atonement, in the Divinity of Christ, in the necessity of regeneration, in the inspiration of the Scriptures, in the resurrection of the dead, in the judgment, and in future rewards and punish- ments. In short, so far as regarded the primary principles of systematic divinity, there was little difference in their views. But when; they came to discuss the essentials of salvation, expositions and definitions of doctrines, conceptions of truth, and the limits of theological inquiry and research, they differed totally, the one being broad and Catholic, and the other narrow and dogmatic. b The bishop thought that Catholicity consisted in sound doe- trines, such, of course, asg he himself held, and in apostolic succession, Victor defined it as the S of the Scriptures, in the resurrection of the dead,'   810X    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. i       . spirit of Christ that would have all men to be saved, and hence as tolerant of all differences in unessential -atters. The Church and Christianity did not co sist in dogmatic conceptions, but in eternal and immutable principles. The gospel was to be regarded as the revelation and enunciation of the law of spiritual development and life. At the conclusion of the interview, the bishop said that, when Victor should apply in due form to be admitted a candidate for orders, he would carefully consider his case, and decide whether to receive him or not. But Victor never made tile application, as he heard indirectly that, should he apply, his application would be rejected. Subse- quently he had an interview with another bishop, -a High-Churchman,; who came into the diocese, as the previous one had done, to officiate for Bishop Bass, the regular diocesan, but who, for some time, ; had been too infirm in health to discharge the duties of his office; but it terminated;, if possible, with less satisfactory results than the other. He was, however, finally received by Bishop Bass him- self, his ordination being one of' the last official acts of that prelate. It was brought about mainly through the influence of friends. Had he-been a young man-, poor and friendless, he could never, entertaining the views he did, have entered the ministry of the Episcopal C urch, or, indeed, of any other denomination. Sub'h was, and, to some extent, still, is, the bigotry a cd narrowness of the Church, that the elements it most needs to impart: t    A A WEDDING.       8" the spirit- of progress and enterprise are rbpelled. Should the apostles themselves again appear upon earth, and seek admission to the ministry, they would doubtless be rejected, and that, too, on the ground, of unsoundness in- doctrine; for we do not think either of them could, without qualifi- cation, indorse the creeds-and practices of a single denomination. On the week following his confirmation, he was appointed instructor in the college, though Doctor Miller vehemently opposed him, alleging that he entertained extremely dangerous; religious views. The fact, however, that he had recently joined the Episcopal Church caused the trustees to believe that the doctor's opposition was inspired mainly by sectarian motives. The Deschamps, after remaining two weeks in Boston, departed for their home in the West. Before going, the engagement of Victor and Louise was made public, Mrs. Winslow and Marie re- ceived the announcement with great surprise and evident disappointment. Augustus immediately left Boston, and joined the army. Mr. Willoughby, whose attentions to Louise had become quite marked, abruptly ceased his visits, and it was soon announced that he and Marie were en-gaged. Within a -uonth they were married, and eventually -removed to a distant city, the young rector having realized his anticipation of a call to a large parish. -He afterwards became a bishbp. , Victor remained in Boston two years, when he ,             Hir  ,     .r *-' / ' ^  '-  .   a 8i2    tVICTOR LA, TOURETTE. resigned his position and entered the ministry. He was offered a professorship, but declined it, having steadily adhered to the purpose that had first led him to America, though the knowledge he subse- quently acquired of the different religious denomi- nations, and especially of the Episcopal Church, early convinced him that little could, be done at. that] time for the promotion of Catholic ideas. While engaged in teaching, he Was a faithful wor er in the Church, and through his labors and influence contributed even more than the rector to its growth and prosperity, constantly visiting among the poorer classes, ministering to their ne- cessities, temporal and spiritual, and bringing them into the Church and Sunday school. His plan of establishing a seaman's home was successfully car- ried out, the captain, Louise, and Mrs. Winslow being his chief, coadjutors in the work. His religious views became -very well under- stood, but made very little impression upon the Church, the members being persons of little enter- prise or inquiry in relation to theological matters, -or otherwise narrow and bigoted; butk his ideas were tolerated through his personal popularity and influence, being regarded as pardonable eccentri"ci- ties. He formed many acquaintances and inti- macies among people of all denominations. The Unitarians were the most cultured and congenial, -he and the rector of: King's Chapel having early contracted a warm and intimate friendship; but even the members of the Puritan denomina- "   J   A WEDDING.       .,. 313 tions seemed quite as congenial and liberal, not- withstanding the narrowness of their creeds, as those of his own Church. This he could not well explain, but attributed it, to the force of habit. The Episcopal Church, from the fact that it was the Church of England, 'had, from the first, been regarded as exclusive and aristocratic; and this reputation, which had attached itself to it from causes wholly independent of its real nature, had imparted to it its outward character. Though he found no difficulty in bringing the poorer classes into the Church, they could not well be retained there, being driven away by neglect and social repulsion. Still he adhered as firmly as ever to the conviction that had led him into the Church; and, to the day of his death, this conviction was never shaken. , He believed the time would come,  I and at no distant day, when the outward character  of the Church would change, and hoped, himself, to contribute something to that result. He looked chiefly, however, to the reaction against the ex- cessive dogmatism of the day to bring it about. 'Scepticism and indifference, he thought, would so prevail, and scientific culture become so devel- oped, that the, Churches would be compelled to take more advanced and Catholic grounds in order to retain their influence. When confidence -in for- ! mal and dogmatic religion had become impaired, a stronger faith in Christ would be developed. Ec- clesiastical and rational materialism would then give place to a living, lo ving, and practical faith. "   314     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. He was married to Louise in the first summer vacation that followed his engagement., It hap- pened' that just before" this event occurred Lieu- tenant Winslow was ordered to Detroit. There had been some perplexity in relation to the mar- riage ceremony, there being no Episcopal minister in Detroit; and so, at Mrs. Winslow's suggestion, it was arranged that Mr. Willoughby should go on tthere with Gus and Victor. Eventually, it was decided that she herself, the, professor, and :Marie, now Jirs. Willoughby, should join the party. Icalnnot dwell upon the many pleasant' incidents of the journey, and which, are fully recorded in Victor's diary. He had travelled a good deal 'before coming to "America, but had never seen any thing, except it were the ocean, that had so impressed his mind as the vastness and solitude of the wilderness through which the greater part of their journey lay. And the impression lie then received seems to have so grown upon him in after years that he could not be contented except in the forests in communion with nature. "One loses,"' he wrote, "his own identity, and almost his per- sonal consciousnesS, in society. His individuality seems swallowed  up like a drop of rain in the ocean. He forgets his own soul, -is scarcely sen- sible of his own existence apart from others. But in the solitude of the wilderness these are vividly restored. He realizes then his personality, com- munes with himself, and seems brought face to 'face with God."  In the frequent descriptions I   A WEDDING.         815 find afterwards in his diary of his visits to the for- ests, he writes as if unconscious of any presence in the world but his own and that of God, to whom he talks in the most' familiar and childlike lan- guage. He has, too, long talks with the brooks and trees, and tells in one place of stooping down to look into the face of a shy, little wild blossom, and gives at length his conversation with it. Deschamps and Louise, with a few friends, were at the landing when the company arrived. It was a joyous meeting. Mrs. Winslow was in ecstasies ;, had enjoyed herself, she declared, more than she would; had she taken a trip to Paris. ; The pro- fessor seemed to have forgotten his wonted stiff- ness and reserve, and affirmed that he felt at least ten years younger than swhen   he started. Mr. Willoughby   and his bride did not seem much changed since their marriage, no more than was natural to their altered  relations; -though one might have seen even then a slight approximation to the stately bishop and benignant matronly lady they afterwards became. As for Gus, he seemed suddenly to have developed into full manhood. His tall form arrayed in uniform, and his soldierly bearing, gave him a most imposing appearance. Deschamps' residence was on the northern lim- its of the town, - a bright little cottage near the shore of the river, -and surrounded by ancient maples that stood out like veteran sentinels from the  dark, unbroken 'wilderness to the west. -It contained few of what are styled luxuries, but pre- (     316-    VICTOR LA TOURETTE sented without and within a rare delicacy of taste and refinement. But its greatest attraction -was its air of comfort and simplicity, that caused the guests to feel at home and at ease as soon 'as they entered its enclosures. The wedding took place on the day after their arrival, in, the evening, and was conducted in a quiet way, and with little formality. There were, a large number of guests present, most of them in plain -attire;-,chlaracteristic of a frontier settlement, the most noticeable of whom were two Indians, who had come out fro"m the forest just as the sun was setting on the evening preceding the weddiig. Their sudden apparition quite startled the Boston- ians, who were sitting on the back porch. Mrs. Winslow uttered a faint scream, and Marie came near fainting, when they first appeared approach- ing the gate.  Deschamps was not there; but Louise sprang up with exclamations of delight, and hastened forth to meet them as they strode up the path side by side with rapid steps. The greet- ing was most tender and affectionate, and all won- dered to see Louise clasping the neck of each as they bent over in turn to' press their lips to hers. They were dressed in fawn-skin tunics, gathered at the throat with brooches formed of the union of a circle, square, and triangle,-the symbol of their race,--and at the waist by broad belts, on which were wrought singular devices, representing their religion and traditions. Their limbs were encased in tightly fitting garments of doe-skin,   -A WEDDING.         817 isoft as velve't, and colored a; dark crimson, and their feet in yellow moccasins. Over the shoulder of each was gracefully flung a light fur blanket. Their heads were uncovered, their glossy hair hanging loosely upon their shoulers. Their mien was noble, every motion betokeninsg strength and grace of body, and manliness of 'mind. Victor had often heard Louise and her father speak of 'Kear * and Ottokee, and 'at once suspected that these splendid Indians were the great prophet and noble chief of the Lenni-Lenapes.  Louise blushingly presented him, - first to the prophet, and then to the chief. He says in-- his diary, "I experienced  a momentary embarrass- ment; but when I found that our strange guests acted and talked like other human beings, and even with greater ease and naturalness than any persons I had ever met before, I was soon on familiar terms with them. Ottokee at first was somewhat reticent, but with Kear there was not the slightest reserve. There was in him-no affec- tation, conceit, nor pride. His bearing was wholly natural, and always suited to the character of the person with whom he was conversing, seeming to comprehend it at a glance. I do not mean that he Was obsequious, but that he was always entertaia- 1ing, respectful, and attentive." Mrs. Winslow; though so much frightened at the first appearance of the two "awful creatures," soon became perfectly enthusiastic in their praise, She would not be ashamed of them in her parlors,   ' 318    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. and even gave them a pressing invitation to visit Boston. Marie declared it was quite romantic. If she were not already married, she would "set her cap" for Kear. She did really hope Gus would marry an Indian princess, after; all. "Do not talk in that way, my dear," said her husband, reprovingly. i"These men, you must not forget, are savages, and would doubtless murder and scalp- us, should we encounter them in the wilderness. If they were converted to Christianity, I would not object slo much to their visiting us, though it would not do to be too familiar with them even then, lest it should be unbecoming our station."'  Ottokee, from his more frequent intercourse with the whites, could at first express himself more freely than Kear. The latter, however, easily made himself understood by the skilful use of symbols in connection with the few French and , English words he had learned. 'His memory re- tained every thing he saw or heard. The expres- sion of one's face, of a gesture, or of the tone of voice in which words were uttered, was sufficient to convey to his mind the thought sought-to be ^imparted.          '  ,Deschamps, in conversation with the professor, had often spoken of Kear, and had explained, so far as he could comprehend it, his philosophy.  He had even asserted that Kear knew more of God and nature than was comprehended in all the science and theology of the schools. The professor   E A WEDDING.   :  . 319 was incredulous, of course, and even derisive, though he had expressed the greatest: curiosity and desire to see this Indian philosopher. Being- himself, as lie supposed, master of all the sciences,  of which this untutored Indian must be altogether ignorant, he did not entertain a doubt of his own' superiority. Doubtless Kear had developed cer- tain natural instincts by his life in the' wilderness, and to perhaps a remarkable degree. He might be able to follow a trail, for example, that, was invisi- ble to an inexperienced eye; but he could not. know any thing about trigonometry, astronomy, chemistry, or any of the natural sciences. Still, so intelligent a man as Deschamps would not have been likely to have made so confident assertions, unless there had been some foundation for them in fact; and so, feeling extremely curious to know what Kearts real acquirements were, he began to revolve in his mind, as soon as he saw him, how he should put them to the test. An opportunity was soon afforded him.  The evening following the arrival of the guests was remarkably bright and beautiful. The sun had set in a perfectly cloudless sky. 'As they all were sitting on the porch after tea, the professor congrat- ulated Louise upon the prospect of a pleasant day for the wedding. "Happy is the bride upon whom the sun shines, they say; and I sincerely hope this saying may prove true in your case." ; Deschamps laughed heartily. "I hope the say- :ing will prove false in this instance," he said; " for 'o rr yrv r v lurtr Irl ul IILULLZ7)   320    VICTOR LA  TOURETTE. Kear tells me it will rain to-morrow and the day  after. II fear, Professor, if you attempt to proph-'  esy, yot will not add lustre to the title I gave you, : when I invited our guests from the wilderness to be piesent at the wedding. I told them I, expected - a pale-faced prophet here, - one of great learning  and wisdom."         ,          I i"Much obliged for the compliment," said the  ; professor good-humoredly. -"Ordinarily I should @ not like to stake my reputation for wisdom on my power to forecast the weather, for I think that can  be done with certainty only by Him who controls the storms; but in this case I think I may safely do so." Then, addressing Kear, he said, "Are you sure it will rain to-morrow?"          I Kear bowed,'and yet seemed to hesitate some- what, either from reluctance to question the pro- fessor's wisdom or from surprise at his ignorance. "Two days of storm!" exclaimed Mrs. Winslow. "How dreary'! I hope you will prove a false prophet this time, Kear," "Oh! his prophecies neverlfail," said Deschamps. He can tell you not only what the weather will be to-morrow, but also for an indefinite time to come." "I shall credit that if it rains to-morrow," said the professor in an incredulous tone. "But can i he tell when the next eclipse of the moon will be?"  "You will see," said Deschamps, making known to Kear the inquiry, which the latter had not exactly comprehended -' , i 5 f Jo l   af WA LJ' ULi Vr.     .OA The professor was quite amazed when his ques- tion was answered correctly, and without hesita- tion, and suggested that Kear mus't have had access to some almanac. Deschamps laughed. "Oh! he is his own alma-, nac; and mine too, too, when he is present. They do not have any use for such things among the Lenni- Lenapes. Boston is, you see, behind the age." The conversation that followed is recorded in its , minutest details in my father's diary, but was so extended, embracing almost every subject known in natural science, religion, and metaphysics, that I cannot insert it here. Should this simple narra- tive, however, be kindly received by the public, iet will be followed by another volume, in which I shall endeavor to unfold, so far as I have been able to comprehend it, the philosophy of this great priest of nature; for even the professor so desig- nated him after the conversation was through, and in after years often alluded to him as the most  remarkable man he had ever met. Indeed, it is at the professor's suggestion, often made to me before his death, that I have undertaken, after much delay, to unfold Kear's philosophy and traditions, embrac- ing all matters that pertain to spiritual and physical culture, the relations of things seen and unseen to each other, and even social and political ethics. He had, of course, no technical knowledge of defi- nitions and terms used in the schools. What he knew he had acquired by observation and tradi- tion, the latter embracing only historical events "*        u  6   , '   322    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. and elementary principles., When, therefore, the professor questioned him of lwhat was contained inll 'text-books, he could make no answer. His sole text-book was Nature; and from this he had de- rived his knowledge. What ordinary minds could only understand through the most labored anfalyses and demonstrations, he comprehended at a glarice. The professor, for example,-drew a right-angled triangle, and, after erecting squares on the hy- pothenuse, base, and perpendicular, asked'him . which contained the most space, the square of the hypothenuse, or the sum of the two remaining squares. He replied instantly that they were equal. But how did he know that they were equal? '  He had measured them with -his eye. The professor then drew the usual lines by which the proposition was demonstrated.  But Kear shook his head. These were only to assist the eye, and were mere artifice, and opposed to his theory of culture, which allowed only of the tradi- tion of principles, observation, and reflection. The brooch he wore, and which was the tradi- tionary symbol of the tribe, occupied a good deal of their attention. It consisted of the union of a circle, a square, and a triangle. This, Kear said, rep- resented Existence. The triangle represented the infinitely little, the ultimate form and essence, and the source of existence. The square was the sym- bol of creation, or combination, of growth, and of infinite progression. The circle was the infinite   A WEDDING.         323 of infinites, the limitless in essence, duration, and extent, and, the sum, perfectness, and completion ' of all being. The first was the figure 3, the i smallest complete number. The second was the figure 2, the largest complete number. The third was the figure 1, the infinite number, and the sum of all numbers. In combination they were the symbol of God and man, representing the number 7, the trinity of trinities, the infinitude of qualities and combinations. For a time the professor insisted that Kear was mistaken in saying that the figure 1 was the infi- nite number. On the contrary, he said it was the smallest. Two men, for example, were more than one. But Kear said that all things in combination were one thing. Two men and one man repre- sented but fractions of the one -whole  When figures were applied to concrete substances, they were used arbitrarily, and with no reference to their intrinsic meaning. Two men could be rep- resented by i with as much propriety as by 2. Perhaps the most interesting part of the discus- sion related to language and expression. It would, however, occupy too much space, if inserted here.   824     VICTOR LA TOURETTE., ,              t CHAPTER XIX. IIVE YE ARS IN THE MNISTRY. SEVEN happy years followed the union of Vic- tor and Louise. Two healthful children, a daughter and a son named after themselves,:were born to them, and filled their home with. merri- ment, and their hearts with gladness. Our Grand- father Descliamps spqnt mudch time with us, though he still retained his home in Detroit, which we vis- ited each summer. But political disturbances pre- vented our grandparents in France from coming to America, though we were constantly anticipat- ing their coming the next spring. Once my father had made every preparation for crossing the ocean for the piurpose of bringing them over, but was prevented by the disturbed state of Europe. Immediately after his ordination to the ministry he took charge of a little parish in the country, not far from Boston, where he passed all but one of the years of his brief ministry. His success was most marked, and not only fully vindicated the practical nature of his ideas, but also proved that Catholicity was best suited to the develop- ment of real charity and progress. His parish was but a mission, and was overshadowed by other                t   FIVE YEARS IN THE MNSTRIY. 325' denominations, each of which had large congrega- tions. The business, political, and social interests were at first all against him, not only on account of the prejudice that existed -against the English Church, but also on account of the; paucity of I its numbers; those who were ambitious of political preferment, or success in business, though other- wise favorable, being indisposed to unite with so small a congregation. From the first,.he asserted and maintained the Catholicity of the Church. He had, of course, his own private opinions on' all questions of theology, which he maintained with earnestness, but did not preach them as essential to salvation, being careful to reiterate, so frequently that it could not be misunderstood, that, in the matter of belief, nothing was absolutely essential but faith in Christ, - such a faith as would induce obedience, and .bring forth good works; and Christ hle preached constantly and with the most vehe- ment and passionate earnestness. As soon as his views and teachings became fully manifest, he was assailed with a storm of denun- ciation and abuse. The clergy of the other de- nominations in the place, moved partly by jealousy of hiis pre-eminent ability, and partly by-alarm at the depletion of their own congregations; were the first to denounce him. -'"Sensationalist," "fa- natic,." and "heretic"' were some of the favorite epithets: applied to him. But when it became evident that, despite all opposition and detraction, his influence was steadily increasing, and sure to  inraina   826  -  VICTOR LA TOURETTE. become ultimately firmly established, they gradu- ally became more friendly, and finally even quite Catholic in their policy and teachings. In fact, the whole religious thought of the community became revolutionized; and,- while the various church organizations were still maintained, the utmost friendliness and  good feeling prevailed. This, of course, was not brought about at once, nor was the apparent friendliness and Catholicity of' other denominations altogether sincere. It was i found that no church organization could be main-! tained except on Catholic principles; and hence, as a matter of policy, each denomination strove' not to be outdone in liberality. From early asso- ciationsi or from preferences as regarded forms of worship, in relation to which my father had very little to say, most of the members were constrained' to adhere to the Church organizations with which they had before been allied. Indeed, he did not v seek to draw any from other Churches, but advised all who, through personal regard for him, might seek to withdraw from their own Church and unite  with his, to remain where they were, and use the influence they had acquired to promote Catholicity among their own brethren. When all denomina- tions had become Catholic in spirit, he did not doubt: that unity in all essentials would follow. Most of his accessions were from the large number of those who before had been accounted sceptics,  or as indifferent to all religions, but who became ' the most earnest and practical members.   FIVE YEARS IN THE MNISTRY.     327, From his Episcopal brethren my father experi- enced throughout his ministry the most bitter and persistent detraction. High Church and Low were alike hostile to his views. His great success at home, however, prevented any steps being taken to depose him flom the ministry, though many thought it should be done. He had no calls to other parishes. His name was often suggested, as many would have been glad to have secured so brilliant a preacher-; but malice, envy, and slander were at once aroused at the mention" of his name. A strong effort was made to call him to Boston, when Mr. Willoughby had resigned his parish, but the' senior warden rolled up his eyes in pious hor- ror at the suggestion; and there was otherwise so much opposition developed that the project was abandoned. The opposition, doubtless, was some- whlat inspired by a certain sermon he had preached there, which, though it discussed no question of doctrine, gave great offence to many members. It was entitled "The Self-satisfied Man." A young, pretty, and unmarried man-the pet of the ladies' - was finally called. It would be impossible to record one of a thou- sand of the petty slights, injuries, and insults to, whichlhe was subjected. The bishop, when offici- ating in our parish, always preached an offensive sermon. But nothing could daunt my father's resolution or abate his efforts. Secure in the con- fidence and esteem of his own people, and sup- ported by my mother's sympathy, he continued his ;        '\    2;3 5   VICTOR LA TOURETTE.  endeavors to fulfil the mission to which he be- lieved God, had called him. The members of other denominations often ex- pressed great surprise that he should remain in the Episcopal Church. Judge Pickering and the rec- tor of King's Chapel strongly urged him to unite with them. Professor Winslow also joined his entreaties with theirs. "Why will you," lhe said, "waste your life, talents, and education in the Episcopal Church, when you can attain the high- est eminence elsewhere? Whatever it may itself be, you can) do- nothingJ to promote Catholicity among its present members." My grandfather Deschamps also became very tired of the Church, finally ignoring it altogether, excepti when in our parish. But my father re- mained firm in his purpose. "If I should with- draw," he said, "I should be -compelled to abandon the ministry, as the motive that first induced me to enter would prevent my uniting with any other Church.' And I have experienced no greater oppo- sition than I anticipated, and am sure the cause I advocate must finally prevail." My mother was, if possible, even, more resolute than he. "I aim certain," she said, "that God put it into your heart to do this work. If, in your situation of pecuniary independence, you shrink from this duty, your life will prove a failure, and its opportunities wi-1 be lost. By this course only can you illustrate the true spirit of our Master." Meantime my grandfather had become very much t.                 FIVE YEA RS IN-- THE MNIZSTR Y.  829' enfeebled in health; and, as he could not be in-i  duced to give up his-home in Detroit and make his permanent 'residence with us, my parents finally determined to remove thither. I ,pass over the painful incidents of our separation from our dear people, who clung to us to the last moment, and wept with us at the hour of our departure. The whole village was filled with regret, the mem- bers of other denominations gathering around us, anld equally sorrowful with our own people for the necessity that had compelled our departure. The poor, upon' whonl my mother had bestowed our large income, saving. only what was necessary to the support of our economical household; and the laboring classes, with whom my father had exhib- ited a' deep and constant sympathy, advocating their interests and Lights on all occasions, show- ered their blessings upon us as,: they bade us fare- well. It was hoped - and this somewhat mitigated the grief of separation- that'we would return again when my grandfather's hlealth should be restored; and, clinging to this hope still, the parish for a long time declinedlto call another pastor,.though urged to do so by the bishop. But God willed otherwise. None we left-behind-save those only who with my parents have entered into their rest -have' seen their faces more. But I'forget,- nlearly all are gone. I, myself, then but a child, am now old in years, rand have uttered over many -we left behind the words, "Earth to earth, ashes ,      .    ,   :330"    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. to ashes, dust to dust." Many years after my  father had completed his earthly ministry, I re- turned to take up his unfinished work; and the joy with which I was welcomed back was only equalled by the grief of our departure. Here, 'With my father's people, have I spent all the years of my long ministry. Meantime the progress of Catholic ideas has been slow; but the many able and resolute spirits that maintain them now give the most confident assurance of their final triumph. Ah! the Church of the future! What anticipa- tions -so bright that we count as joys our labors and sufferings in Christ -- cluster aroumnd that golden city, the New Jerusalem, the last and brightest vision -of the disciple whom Jesus loved:!   OLD ANxD NEW   ACQUAINrTANCES.   331 CHAPTER XX. OLD AND NEW ACQUAINTANCES. IMMEDIATELY after we had Become settled in x Detroit, my father resumed his labors. There was no Episcopal church there, and he determined to found one on Catholic principles. Detroit, it will be remembered, was Garvey's home. He was, in fact, one of its most influential citizens, not only on account of the wealth he had amassed by his traffic with the Indians, giving them', in exchange for their valuable furs, cheap articles ofmerchan- dise and intoxicating liquors, but also on account of his confident and assuming manners and osten- tatious style of living. Really coarse and vulgar in nature, he was yet not profane, and was a strict observer of the letter of the law. Mean and sor- did, he contrived to obtain a reputation for gene- rosity by certain gifts, which, while requiring little sacrifice, were calculated to draw attention and excite applause. Blustering, pompous, and garru- lous, and naturally overbearing and brutal, he yet contrived to make himself popular by a coarse wit and jollity, and by a carefully studie( patronage of a large element of society, which, if not posi- tiv ely bad, was far from high-toned. Yely  badl   332    V CTOR LA rOURETT'E. But from his piety, perhaps, more than from any other source, was his influence in the community derived. Even those not religiously inclined liked him none the less for this, since, perhaps, they had a dreamy idea-that somehow his righteousness was imputed to' them, and that, when they became intoxicated Jon his bad liquors, his piety somewhat mitigated the offence. And, on the other hand, the really religious part of the community were prone to overlook his faults, lest in their exposure some reflection would be cast upon themselves. At the religious gatherings he was always foremost in prayer and exhortation, and was even accus- tomed to administer private admonitions to sinners. He was also somewhat of a theologian, sound in doctrine, and particularly jealous of all heretical notions. He had an only child, a son named Martin Luther, whom he had sent to Boston to be edu- cated, and who, he hoped, would become a min- ister. And in this hope he was really sincere. He did really desire his son to become a minister. All his own respectability and influence had been nursed by his piety, and no person in 'town was more respectable, none wealthier, and none more eminent in piety. But I even his sincerity in this respect was, mainly selfish. He would not have liked to be a minister himself, for the love of money was ihis ruling passion; but he desired his son to become one, as this would serve to assure his own standing and reputation in the community. It is not likely,   OLD AND NE W ACQUAINTrA CES.     333 however, that he Was/ conscious of any misgivings in his own ilind as to tte genuineness of his purpose. I doubt that the worst hypocrites are really con- scious of their own depravity. Certainly they are not addicted to self-scrutiny; for a disposition to know one's self is a Christian virtue. The Phar- isees, whom our Saviour repeatedly charged with hypocrisy, and so aptly likened to whited sepul- chres, iwere unquestionably sincere in one sense. They really believed themselves to be pious peo- ple. They might have known better, had they chosen; but, as they did not, this rendered them  hypocrites. Having eyes, they could see, but saw not; and having ears, could hear, but heard not. Still, there is in most depraved minds an instinc- tive knowledge of their meanness, though it does not often become a real consciousness. They can- not look squarely into the eyes of an honest man, except it be in brazen effrontery or reckless defi- ance. Thins seems unaccountable that one should be instinctively ashamed of that, of wh, ich he is not distinctly conscious. Even the worst criminals, when found guilty and condemned, for the most part deem themselves greatly wronged and abused, though not one would have liked to have had his crimes made public, even had there --been no -pen- alty to be incurred. Instinctively Garvey felt that he was a hypocrite, though of this he may not ever have been distinctly conscious. And this, doubt- less, induced him to seek to educate his son for the ministry. It was an instinctive effort-perhaps *          #   334    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. might be termed a sort of sacrifice--to fortify his own respectability; and having once resolved to make it, or--to use his own language, often re- peated --havingL " sot his 'art hon it," he became ex- tremnely solicitous in relation to his son's religious training. "Martin,' said he, "' are all the boy I've got; but I han't got only one hinterest in 'im.  Yer might think I'd want 'im ter help me in ther store, hand ter take care uv me hand my hold woman, w'en Iwe git ter be hold. But children are ther gift of God, hand if I 'ad miy quiver full uv um, I'd feel I horter give um all back, I feel, my Christian brethren, that er fond parent carn't do better than ter give his sons ter God. But if one an't got but one, it seems 'ard ter give 'im hup. I've often thought it must 'av been 'ard fur Elka- nah and Hannah ter 'av gin up Samuel, seein' Samuel was the only boy they 'ad; but they knew they wouldn't 'av 'ad him only on condition he should be a minister. i Hand so I tells my old woman, who wants Martin ter stay 'ome, 'tan't likely she would 'ad any son er tall, if it 'adn't ben understood he were ter be gin ter God. I've sot--y 'art on making er minister on 'im, hand there ha'n't er more likelier boy, if I do say hit. I don't mean ter go back on ther Lord, who gin me er son in answer to my pra'ars, hand make er trader' uv 'im now, though the boy wouldn't like nothin' better, and there ha'n't nothin' more 'spec- table. Boys, 'fore they git religion hand er change uV 'art, are purty much erlike; hand I don't git   OLD AND NEW A CQUAC   NTANCES.  335 discouraged, though Mr. Lawton, his teacher, when I write ter inquire if Martin shows any signs er piety,- says he car'n't give me much hincourage- ment. Hit would be er great 'fliction ter me if Martin shouldn't be one uv the 'lect. I've sarved ther Lord goin' on now forty year, hand I ha'n't sorrer fur't yit. He 'az prospered me hand ben my comfort in all my 'flictions." As hinted at in Garvey's remarks, the reports that had reached him in relation to his son's prom- ises of piety were any thing but encouraging. He had been expelled once already, and only reinstated at the earnest entreaties of his father, to which were joined the pathetic solicitations' -of the Rev. Timothy Baker, who ministered tothe spiritual interests of the congregation of which Garvey was a member, and who pictured in plaintive and touching language the grief and disappointment of Martin's "aged and pious parents," should he not be reinstated in school. He even hinted that the shock to Mrs. Garvey's health might be fatal, as she was very delicate. Though Mrs. Garvey is not to occupy a conspic- uous place in my narrative, I do not like to pass her by without further notice. I know little, how- ever, of her character or fortune, except what is recorded on her tombstone. This testifies that she was " a dutiful wife and adorned with piety." She, was Garvey's third spouse, and the last but one, and, as said of all the rest, was "greatly beloved." She died "a D. 1808, aetat. 45 years, 3 months, y           ,    886    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. and 6 days." A row of four granite slabs, now covered with rust, mark the resting-places of Gar- vey's wives. These are not of uniform height; but rise one above the other, as if each later wife rose higher in his esteem, the fourth forming the last regular gradation up to the costly and imposing monument that marks the spot where Garvey him- self, "fervent in piety," and "zealous in; good works," is "asleep in Jesus." Whether Martin's mother died, as the Rev. Timothy Baker feared she might, of grief and disappointment because her son did not become a minister, or was simply a victim of the ciruel fortune that robbed her hus- band of so many wives, cannot now be certainly determined. Deschamps simply said of her that "she was a poor, weak woman, wretchedly un- happy, and so impressed with her, husband's piety, that, though greatly abused, she was never known to utter any complaint." ' After Martin's reinstatement in school, matters went on smoothly for a timei he being promised, in a letter from his father, a double supply of spending money, if ,he would " try 'a{d ter git larnin'," and would "allers go ter meetin'." With such an I incentive we may presume that he did make some effort to keep within the limits prescribed by his excellent teacher, Mr. Lawton, whose school I 9myself afterwardsattended for a number of years. But, if we may credit Mr. Lawton's statement, Martin's character and genius were peculiar. "I never had a pupil," he said, "however unpromis- !* *   '    OLD AND, ANE W A CQUA /IVTANCES.    61 ing, except Martin Garvey, in whom I could niot discover some hopeful trait of character. His nature was a strange compound of cunning, vi-   ; ciousness, ignorance, and stupidity. He co'uld' learn nothing from books, except the simplest rudiments of English, while he excelled fin every kind of mischief. Strange- to say, he was popular with a large number of his schoolmates, partly through his generous prodigality, but mainly by a certain coarse jollity, very enticing with some boys. Some disliked him, but yet stood so much in awe of his brute nature, that they. treated him with a rude respect. In fact, had I not finally perempto- rily dismissed him, he would have completely de- moralized my school. His vicious propensities were only equalled by his ability to conceal his mischief." It is rarely the case that any person, however eccentric in nature, does not find some mind con- genial in sympathy and taste. Martin was not an exception to this rule. Before going to Boston his father had corresponded with Reuben Smith, who had, after considerable delay, just completed his theological studies, and was then acting temporarily as assistant to Doctor Miller, in relation to, placing his son at school there. Naturally this brought the two young men together. Though there was eight or ten years' disparity in age, and though unlike in genius and acquirements, they yet pos- sessed so many qualities in common, that a close intimacy was contracted between them. This was favored by the fact that Mr. Lawton, whose school 15  '-   -  v   838    "VICTOR LA TOURETTE. Martin attended, was a member of Doctor Miller's Church, and required all his students who had no permission fromn their parents to go-elsewhere, to attend there. Besides, Garvey had, in his corre- spondence with Reuben, made known his , desire thiat his son should become la minister, and had expressed a hope- that through Reuben's influence this might be brought about. Reuben was teaching a ,class of young men in the Sunday school, and persuaded Martin to join it;,and, moreover, considering it his duty to call frequently upon his pupil, the two came finally to understand each other perfectly. , One of the first developments of ;a congeniality of tastes was a fondness in each for strong drink; and this was frequently cultivated at the Way- side Inn, to which I have once before alluded. Mr. Lawton had, from its well known character, designated this house as -' The Whited Sepulchre, and had forbidden his students to enter it under any circumstanlce. It was kept by a middle-aged man, evidently a foreigner, but of what nationality could not well be determined, whom everybody called "Pete." His full name no person had ever heard; and, indeed, he had been so long and so familiarly'known by this, that. it is not likely any person had ever thought to inquire. He was a spruce, nimble little fellow, exceedingly polite and loquacious, but always, when quiet, wearing a sly, knowing look, partially concealed under an expres s sion of injured innocence.   OLD AND NE W ACQUAINTANCES.     339 Pete was a great and constant annoyance to the- dignified Mr. Lawton, who, after having so often warned his young men' against "The Whitedl Sepulchre," and forbidden them ever to cross its threshold, of course did not like to appear on terms of familiarity with its landlord. But he could not well avoid passing the house on his way to town; and it rarely happened that he went by without receiving a most polite and 'friendly salutation from Pete. At first he returned these recogni- tibons, though coldly, having often told his boys that they should never suffer themselves to be outdone in politeness, and not wishing to preach what he did not himself practise; but they became finally so familiar that he could no longer endure them, and passed them  by unnoticed. It was amusing, so I have been told, to see how he stiff- ened up and hastened his steps as he approached the spot. Pete, however, could not be discour- aged, but always took off his hat and bowed with the utmost' deference, notwithstanding his polite- ness received no appreciation except to call up a look of dignified disgust on the professor's face. One would naturally be surprised to find such a person as Pete in the suburbs of Puritanical Bos- ton at that time. Not but that tippling-houses were as common there as elsewhere, and their keepers as respectable, -for it was not considered disreputable then to indulge moderately in strong drink, - but that Pete was noti of Puritan stock, and had evidently drifted into Boston by some   340    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. chance; for at first he could not speak a word of English, and was a devout Romanist. He never told what the circumstance or chance was that had brought him there, but often alluded to it as a. providential matter. It had, he said, been the means of his conversion to the true faith; for Pete, I presume, was not an exception to the general rule, that one's religion is determined mainly by bhis social surroundings and business interests. But, 'however that may be, he was a convert to Protestantism, and was thereby not only tolerated, but even patronized and prospered. He was an Episcopalian, but prided himself in beirg liberal or Low Church in his views. He liked very much, especially after his acquaintance with Reuben and Martin, to attend the revival meetings, sometimes even leading in prayer, and telling his experience in a strange jargon of mixed languages. The story of his experience ran always, as nearly as it can be represented in print, about as follows - "Me feel, mee Kreeschun frenz, it gaot be; 'ere, yare 'Oly Speerut por oot. Me:get reeleezhon long tim 'go. Me vas Romany Catoleek. Me vas werry bat,-vas een tarkneesh ant te shatow ob teth. Oh, ven me teenk ob tat tim! Ugh! shut- ter to teenk ob eet. Te veeket prees let me no hab Beeble. Teenk ob .tat! No reat Got's 'Oly Vurt I He make heeself Got. He make me 'fess to heem. He take monee. Boot Got breenk me here. Me go to meeteenk; me get reeleezhon; me reat Beeble, and prae. No veeket prees any                     .,   OLD AND NEW ACQUAINTANCES. -841 more; no 'fess seens. Releezhon veetoot monee ant veetoot preece." Of course he did not mean that he could have , religion without cost; for he rented a pew in church, and was a contributor in a small way to. missions and other Churchl charities. Doubtless, by "getting religion," he thought, all sins were forgiven without expense or further trouble; and; while it did cost something to maintain his pew in church, the profit in a worldly sense far exceeded the cost. Every one knew the character of his horuse but no person, on account of his attend- ance upon worship and occasional' contributions, thought of molesting him. In fact, he had made himself quite popular by 'his eccentric and obse- quious ways.   342    viCTOR LA TOURETTE. '  **  \ *     :     . I  ,  CHAPTER   X.  A REVIVAL OF RELIGION. NOT long after Martin's reinstatement in school 'l an unusual degree of religious -interest be- gan to be manifested in Doctor Miller's church., Reuben had developed quite remarkable gifts as an exhorter, and the revival was generally attrib- uted to his influence. And this was doubtless true; for being young and unmarried, and hence very attractive to the ladies, it needed only repu- tation for smartness to render-him popular. The week-night service, which, under the conduct of the aged and somewhat prosy minister. had become exceedingly dull and ill atiended, suddenly became quite animated. The young people, and particu- larly the ladies, thronged to the lecture-room on Wednesdays evenings; and of course where the -young ladies go the young gentlemen are not slow to follow. The result was that the lecture-room became so crowded that the meetings were held in  the body of the church. Doctor Miller was quite OC rown into the, background. He usually, how- ever, for the sake of decorum, occupied the central seat in the pulpit, and opened and closed the meet- ings; but it was evident that he was regarded as   A RE VIVAL OF RELIGIOO   .   343 rather' ornamental than useful. Being, a sensitive man, and, withal, not wanting in, the vanity and conceit -a long and successful pastorate --for he liad been settled for life -is almost sure to engender, his natural 'or acquired humility and grace were not sufficient to sustain him, when he saw himself compelled to act a subordinate part, 'and even treated with contellpt in his own parish, and that, too, by his recent pupil in theology. But the religious interest, as it was called, deepened so rapidly, that his jealousy and wounded vanity, though not wholly concealed, were for a time unnoticed-. Conversions multiplied, the meetings became more frequent, until almost the entire week and the entire interest of the parish were devoted to them.  'Mr. Lawtol, though a sincere Christian, and, -moreover, somewhat rigid and, Puritanical in his faith, was not an enthusiast in religion. He be- lieved, of course, in revivals, and in the ordinary methods of conversion, -never, indeed, haviiig questioned that the Holy Spiritt was poured out on, such occasions, and that only by a sudden change, wrought through miraculous agency, was it possible to become a religious man. Still, he was averse to excitements of any kind, and but rarely took any part, in revival meetings.  His students being mostly sons of pious families, their parents were desirous they should have good religious training, and were quite willing, if not specially desirous, that they -should attend the revival meetings.  .     .     *    .   3844   VICTOR LA TOURETTE. Poor Mr. Lawton became sorely perplexed. To his minrd, " getting rqligion, and at the same time acquiring a knowledge of text-books, were not incongruous duties. 'But the revival sadly demor- alized his school; for he could not well refuse to allow his pupils to attend the meetings, though necessarily the evening hours of study were thereby , interrupted, and, as would naturally follow, the morning recitations of many became but little better than a farce. With most, indeed, study became an irlisome duty, and wholly impracticable to some, who, having been "struck with convic- tion," moped in their rooms, or mintatained a sullen,  silence in recitation. Mr. Lawton became thor- oughly disheartened, not to say disgusted. While theoretically he did not doubt that religion was of more importance than secular knowledge, practi- cally, as is natural with a faithful teacher, he gave much more attention to his text-books, as if a thorough knowledge of them was the paramount duty of life. And as matters -grew worse and worse, he not only absented himself from the meetings, but even contemplated, in his vexation, prohibiting his students from attending. But this he was too sensible and judicious to really attempt, as he knew that the interests of his institution, which , he had built up by years of patient and assiduous toil, would be irretrievably ruined by such a course; for the high reputation of his school was in a great measure due to the religious character that he had imparted to it. After much delibera- ,0   ,.' '    ' 'AREVIVAL OF RELIGION .    X 845 tion, he concluded that the most judicious course would be to remit the wonted discipline" till the religious excitement had abated. He therefore announced that the students who desired to attend the revival meetings could do so without special permission, and that the evening hours of study would be for a time remitted. The consequence was, since the meetings were protracted to a late hour, he almost wholly lost sight of his pupils during the interval between evening and morning worship. Reuben's intimacy with Martin could not be very well maintained without attractiig 'attention; and hence the former became exceedingly anxious that his friend should become pious, and also improve in social accomplishments; for Martin, though far from diffident, was extremely awkward'and unpol- isled in manners. There was between the two a real congeniality; but this would hardly have sufficed to ,have bound them together, had not Martin's purse, which his fond partnt always kept liberally supplied, been so attractive and essential to Reuben's tastes and enjoyments. Their visits' ,at night to the Wayside Inn, were not discontinued during the revival, but became even more frequent than before; for, owing to the lax discipline Mr.- Lawton had permitted, Martin could the more easily escape detection, while Reuben more than ever, bn account of his unwonted labors and ex- citements, felt the need of refreshment and recrea- tion. At these meetings the subject of religion was 15'    346    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. often discussed; and at one .of them in particular, Martin's funds liaving run low on account of their frequent dissipations,' his friend urged upon him more strongly then ever the expediency of becom- ing pious. "Your father,' he said, "will double , your allowances if he hears from me that you have  been converted. Do come up to the anxious-bench, Mart, to-morrow nighft, and I will make it all come right. I will write to your father myself, and tell him of the fact. Then you write and ask him for more money, saying you go so much in company with me you need to dress better, and, moreover, want to contribute more in the Sunday school. My word for it, Mart, the old man will shell out liberally." Martin was still a little reluctant.; "I hate to go forward, Reub, but I'll try; and mebbe I'll git religion, after all. How did you feel when you first got it?" "Why, I felt happy all at once; and, if you should feel so too, then you may know you've got it. I think you are under conviction, Mart, and have thought so for some time. And you must be one of the elect, having such pious parents. It is time you had come out. All you need do at first is to get up and say, 'I love Jesus,' and then sit right down. iThen you come to tell your experi- ence, I will tell you what to say; but you won't have to do that for some time." H Shortly -after the above conversation, :Martin: i "' came out." The first, night, with his head down \ *    .   IRE VIVAL OF RELIGION.     - 347 and with his handkerchief closely'pressed to his eyes, he went forward to the anxious-bench with a host of other young people, most of whom were young ladies.  Reuben was delighted.  In "his prayer on the occasion, which was unusually fer- vent, he alluded to his friend, and prayed especially that he might be converted, and so gratify the earnest longings of his' fond and pious parents. Martin began to feel: happy. Having " broken the ice," his natural confidence returned, so that by the next evening he was ready to come out. He did much better than Reuben expected; for, instead of confining himself to the short sentence his friend had suggested, he made quite an exhorta- tion, and even ventured to lead in prayer, praying with much fervency for the conversion of his fellow- students. He did really feel happy.   He had really wanted to get religion, for this he knew would replenish his purse, and would also give him a certain importance at -school, where, since his recent expulsion, he felt that his standing was not altogether secure. This happy- feeling he inter- preted as conversion. Of course he did not reflect much, if at all, upon the matter, but doubtless did  so regard if;. , True, he was dishonest: and a hypo- crite; but it is quite possible he really thought he had gotten religion'. And  we doubt  not that many, even with a good motive, and altogether sincere, are often equally deceived, whether thev' be those who are. converted by revival methods or by other mechanical agencies.   848     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. The proposed letters to Deacon Garvey were duly mailed; and even Mr. Lawton thought it his duty to inform hinm of the change in his s6n. He expressed himself, however, in guarded language, writing that Martin had made a public profession, and expressing a hope that he had truly met with a change of heart. Meantime, as the interest deepened, the visits of the two friends to the inn continued, and became, if- possible, more frequent and protracted.  "It is the only rest I can get," said Reuben, on one- of these occasions, when both were drinking freely, anid when'the revival was at its height; "and I could not get through so much: labor if I did not take it. Didn't we have a rouser, though, to-night, Mart:? Fill up again, old boy. ,We can afford to indulge a little more now. My fortune is made. You won't have to- foot the bills much longer, Mart." ' Why, what's up, Reub? Any more presents? But you ought to make money out of this thing, somehow. Bouquets and "slippers don't pay for the drinks. How. are you going to raise the wind? Hope you'll hurry up, for I'm dead broke. If the old man ,don't shell out soon, I'll go back on him. I'm getting sick of this thing, anyhow. It don't pay.  , "Why, Mart, 'pon my word, if you weren't one of the elect, I'd think you were going to. backslide. What's the matter? Have a little patience., It ain't time to hear from the old man yet. Why, I I , w**   A REVIVAL OF RELIGION.     849 thought you never did so well as you did to-night. You talked like an apostle, Mart; and, as for your prayer, 'pon my word, I couldn't done better my- self. You've got the gift, and I don't see why you shouldn't be a minister. But you've got the blues now, Mart, that's all. You must go into society more. There s nothing like the women to take the blues out of a man."' "Damn the women, Iteub! There's no chance when you are around. They'll spoil you too. Damn me,; if I don't think they have now! What are you going to do with them all?"  Reuben looked pleased and silly. Lowering his voice, "Oh, don't, don't, Mart! you make me blush. It's hard to disappoint so many; but I can't marry them all.'" "Get out, Reub! you're cracked. This thing is getting played out; and when. it's over what bet- ter off are we? One can see enough of the women without being a minister, if he's got money. But slippers and bouquets, I say, won't pay for the drinks. I'm going to leave. I can'tstddy after this; and lwhat wNrill- become of you then? Pete won't trust you when I'm gone. Old Lawton will shut down on me soon. Don't you see he don't come to the meetin's any more? And the old doctor, too, is getting glum. Damn me if I don't, think he'll shut downvl on you too!"     , "H,aw! haw haw! Mart, do you think I'm a fool? The old doctor shut down on me! The wrinkled old sinner! Why, Mart, he is played   350    vzICTOR LA 'TOURETTE. out. I'm going to shut down on him. He'll have to get out. Uncle Smith said as much to me to-day; and what Deacon Smith,'says has to be so." Then, lowering his voice a little, "Mart, I'll telt - you something: I'm' going to be married." "You don't mean it; Reub?" "Sure pop! and right off, too." "When?" "Next month." "To whom?" "Betsey."  "Good Lord! Reub, you're drunk. She's older than you, and horrid ugly." "But she's rich, Mart; an only child; and the old deacon can't live long. A'n't my fortune made, Mart?"  - "Bully for you, Reub-! fill up. Here's Betsey's health.'" ' s    EA VESDROPPERS.       351 CHAPTER XXII. EAVESDROPPERS. rT HE conversation related in the previous chap- ter occurred on Saturday night. Mr. Laaw- ton had been very uneasy during the week. His school was almost broken up by the revival; and he feare'd his own reputation for piety had been impaired by his withdrawal from ithe meetings. Doctor Miller, however, had called several times to see him, and had been unusually cordial, though evidently much depressed.' On the last 'occasion, the doctor, just as he was going, remarked: - "I have not seen you at the revival meetings of late, Mr. Lawton. Well, speaking confidentially, I cannot say I am much surprised; for I think, myself, they have gone about far enough. We have had revivals before, but not such- as this. I remember, when you were converted, what a deep interest was felt: but there is too much excitement in this; too much like the Methodists. But Deacon Smith says we cannot hold our own against the Methodists unless we adopt their meth- ods. What do; you think, Mr. Lawton? Do you not think we had better close these meetings?" The professor hesitated. He knew Doctor"Mil-, t . .     \   852    VICTOR L4A TOURETTE. ler was jealous of his assistant's influence, a#d was suffering from the pique and sense of injury an aged pastor would naturally'feel at the prospect of being thrust aside to make plaice for a younger man. Yet he had about the same impressions in relation to the revival, though he did not deem it prudent to commit himself fully. "I really do .not know what to advise, Doctor, I don't feel just right myself about this revival;- but it is rather my impression you had better let it take its course. Time will decide whether it be of God or: not. You have done a great work here, Doctor; and I do not think the people will prove ungrateful. At any rate, you are not doubtful of your final reward." s' Oh, no! I have no doubt of that. I feel that my, calling and election are sure; But I have spent nearly all my ministry here, and have labored hard in the service of the Lord. And yet I am not very old, - I think I am, in fact, just as sound in body and mind as ever, and good for ten years more at least, of active work. It is not pleasant to be laid on the shelf when one is capable still of usefulness. Besides, I am 'poor,- have not put by a cent for -my old age, - and my salary is very much behind." "Why, Doctor, you surprise me. Surely the people do not think of turning you adrift in your old age. And, indeed, they could not, for you were settled for life."  "4-Well, I am not sure. They are all carried     EA ESDROPPERS.        853 / away by Mr. Smnith. It is not pleasant, Mr. Law- ton, to be thrust into a; corner even if one's salary is continued. They wish me; to retire altogether; or at least it has been so hinted. Deacon Smith, who is the chief support of the church financially, even told me bluntly that it would be necessary, before long, to have a- younger man in my place." Mr. Lawton was Imuch pained at beholding the real humiliation and distress of his aged pastor, for whom he entertained the highest respect. "I think, Doctor, you take this matter too much to heart. Mr. Smith is, doubtless, a very popular young man, and withal quite gifted; but I cannot think there is any idea of putting him in charge of the parish. There is a good deal of excitement just now, and people may say what they do not mean. Depend upon it, the situation is not as bad as you think." Doctor Miller sighed heavily, and after a pause replied:- "It is, my anxiety in relation to the spiritual interests of my people that troubles me, more than any private considerations. You seem to have ia high appreciation of Mr. Smith ;-but I have, myself, grave  suspicions that his habits are not altogether correct. He has quite abandoned his studies, treats me with great disrespect, and in company with young Mr. GarVey, I   have reason to believe, fre- quents the Wayside Inn." Mr. Lawton was startled.  He had known  of - w -    354     VICTOR LA TOURETTE. I tke intimacy of Reuben and Martin; and, so far as the latter was concerned, the statement of the Doctor seemed quite credible. Evidently the good reputation of- his school was in peril. "'Impossible, Doctor,- you must be mistaken! Young Garvey is my pupil. Indeed, this is quite serious. Praiy, what are your grounds for so grave suspicions?"l The Doctor hesitated. His information was not positive ;4 and he feared, perhaps, he had gone too far. On several occasions he hadl detected the smell of liquor about his assistant; and, his sus- picions being thus aroused, he had only the day before set himself to determline whether they were well founded or otherwise. It was catching at a straw in his distress, for he really hoped something would occur to impair Reuben's popularity; inll which case his own influence might be restored and even strengthened. So after the meeting on the evening following had been dismissed, and the two friends-had gone out together, he followed them. At first they went to Reuben's boarding-place, and, after remaining there a short time, started off in the direction of Mr. Lawton's. The night was so dark that he could not see them; but he could hear their footsteps distinctly till they came to the inn, where they ceased. Though, he had quickened his pace, and had walked up as far as Mr. Lawton's, he heard no more of them. This quite convinced him"that they had' gone into the inn. That night he lay awake till a late hour, : .   .          a ^ *,   '  ' %     "   .    ;.      .    .        @.   i  EA VESDROPPERS. ;      355 meditating how he; might expose them without! bringing himself into discredit. At last a happy ' thought struck him.  Young Garvey was Mr. Lawton's student; and he had but to whisper his suspicions to the latter to bring about the exposure he desired. After a long pause and apparently much reluc- tance, he replied to Mr. Lawton's question: "I do not think it wise for me to state the' sources of my information; and, indeed, I should not have mentioned the matter at all, had I not felt impelled to do so from a sense of duty. Young Garvey being your student, I thought best to say what I did. Your investigations, no doubt, will disclose the truth of my statement."   . After the Doctor had withdrawn, Mr. Lawton's reflections were any thing but agreeable. He half suspected the Doctor's motive, and this inspired the hope that his statement was unfounded. But he felt that he" had been neglectful of his duty. Several circumstances he recalled 'to mind contrib- uted to increase his anxiety and arouse his vigilance, His course was immediately determined upon: he would watch the inn at night, and see for himself whether any of his students were accustomed to frequent it. That afternoon he walked past it; and, Pete not being visible, he-walked leisurely, carefully inspecting its structure. It stood on a corner formed by the intersection of the street with a narrow alley. The main entrance was from the street; but there were two others from the ,        ?   ,56    CI,'CTOR LA TOURETTE.  alley, one into the kitcheli and one into the central building of the group. All the windows were furnished with close shutters. That night he remained at home till near ten o'clock, and then walked down by the church. The meeting not being out, he passed oni some dis- tance. Retracing his steps, he met the people, coming out of church, and, that he might not be recognized, crossed over to the other side of the street. But as he was passing a street lamp at a; hurried pace, he suddenly encountered  Deacon Smith.         1 "Ah! good-evening, Mr. Lawton. Why, I'm surprised. Were you at the meeting, after all? You must have come in late, and occupied a seat near the door." The Deacon's sarcastic and inquisitive tone irri- tated him; and, as often happens with very prudent men when vexed, his reply was injudicious. "No, Deacon, I was not at the meeting, and have not been at any for some time. I have rea- son to thinlk matters are not going on as they should. In fact, I was out to-night for the pur- pose of satisfying myself in relation to certain ' thingsp I have heard." The Deacon was aroused. He was naturally , very passionate and arbitrary, accustomed to have his own way, especially in church affairs, and withal extremely sensitive and punctilious in all matters that pertain to the office of deacon in a most respectable and orthodoxchurch. His hard   EAf VESDROPPERS.       357 face always wore that mingled expression of solem- nity and reproof that frightens children into being good. From his deep-set, cold-gray eyes had been banished, by the habitual consciousness and practice of what was esteemed piety', all tender and laugh- ter-loving expressions. While he never omitted family worship, or neglected to ask a blessing at meals, he never sought to cultivate kindness or control his irascible temper. He was moral, but not loving; religious, but not charitable; gener- ous to the church, but not forgiving nor moved by distress. Of course he was never profane, though he constantly used God's name in vain. He would not lie nor steal, but would misrepresent facts and drive hard bargains. His character, wealth, and office all conspired to make him the autocrat of the church. No person cared to oppose him, and of course the minister was his humble servant. What 'fonder that he was aroused by Mr. Lawton's words. But he knew the latter was too dignified and high-minded to be addressed in the harsh lan- guage he frequently employed; and so he replied in what were for him somewhat guarded terms. "Indeed, sir, this is a serious charge, and must be investigated. Doctor Miller has told me you were not pleased with our doings. What do you mean, sir? Do you think, sir, I would allow any thing improper?  I assure you it is- a great work my nephew is accomplishing for the church. The Spirit has come with power, and was never poured out upon this community as it is to-day. But you '" ' * . ,*    358 -   VICTOR"LA TOURETTE. have seen fit to absent yourself, and even have ' ventured to asperse our doings. :Your remarks cannot pass unnoticed. They will not be tolerated in one who "-  t"Excuse me, Deacon. I shall not permit you to question my motives, nor dictate to me in any way. Y ou are quite mistaken in supposing lmy remarks referred altogether or chiefly to the re- vival meetings. I am chiefly solicitous about the welfare of the young men intrusted to my care and tuition.'"  "Ah! I understand. Having absented your- self from our meetings, you are unwilling your students should attend them. Well, sir, you can do as you thinlr best; but I assure you the parents of your boys will not approve your course: and in the end "- "'Again you are mistaken," interrupted the pro- fessor. "I am quite willing my students should attend the meetings, and, in fact, have remitted the evening hours of study in order to enable them to do so. But I have heard "-- Mr. Lawton paused here abruptly., He had no idea of disclosing the real purpose that had brought him there, but saw no way of avoiding it without giving the deacon false impressions. Moreover, he was aware that circumstances had placed him in an unfavorable light. And so, after-a moment's hesitation, he decided that it was best to partially explain the matter. "I have heard, though I can hardly credit the   EA4 VESDR OPPERS.       859 rumor, that one of my students is in the habit of visiting the Wayside Inn on his return from meeting; and my purpose was simply to ascertain 'whether the report be true." "Ah! -I beg pardon. Have you any objection , to disclosing his name?" "I referred to, young Garvey, who has already been once expelled for improper conduct." "Young Garvey!" exclaimed the deacon, in great surprise. "I can assure you the rumor is entirely unfounded. He is one of our most prom- ising converts, and has been commended specially by his parents to the care of my nephew. They always go home together. But if the rumor has obtained any currency,-and, now I think of it, Doctor Miller must have heard it, I judge, by the obscure hints he threw out to-day,--it must, be Instantly set at rest. The Church is quite as much concerned in the matter as your school. With your permission I will accompany you," "Certainly. I only propose, -however, to pass-, by the inn, and endeavor to ascertain whether any of my students are there. I  elieve  this alle leads directly to it."'    I  :A few moments' walk brought them to the place; and, as they paused in front of the inn, they heard: footsteps coming up the alley. Hastily concealing themselves, they awaited their approach. The steps proceeded from two persons swalking rapidly, who, when they reached the house, entered it from the allely. They could be but dimly discerned;        .      .      .      .       .'   360    VIreCTOR LA TOURETTE. but Mr. Lawton was so familiar with Martin's gait that he had no doubt of his identity. Grasping Deacon Smith's arm, he whispered:- ' Our worst fears are confirmed. One of them I am certain was young Garvey, and the other I have little doubt you were able to recognize." The deacon trembled with excitement. "We may be mistaken," he whispered; " or perhaps they are only stopping for a moment for refresh- ment." "' I am satisfied," replied Mr. Lawton, in a low voice. "Young Garvey must be immediately ex- ; pelled from my school."  '"Not so fast," whispered the deacon. "We must be more certain of their identity," They approached the house as near as the fence permitted, but could only faintly hear the murmur of male and female voices inside. "Let us go inside the gate," said the deacon, "where we can hear what is going on." Mr. Lawton was rather averse to eavesdropping, but finally followed his companion cautiously. Reaching the wiidow, they could plainly hear the conversation within,-some of which has been already narrated, - and which was any thing but edifying to, Deacon Smith. Reuben and Martin indulged more freely than usual that night, the former being in uncommonly good humor; and when at last they were ready to depart, both were highly elated. '"Pete! Pete!"I roared out Reuben. "Come \ *    KA VYEDS ?-KUF E RS.  here, you little devil! Here, ,charge this to me;' Pete, and I'll take you into my church, I will. You shall have ,the old deacon's place, you shall. I'll pay you, Pete, I will, by--! I'm going to marry Betsey; I am, by !" "' Yees, yees, Meesteer Smeet; yoo neeteenk paee woon shent. Boot yoo 'moost keep steel. Hoosh! hoosh! da veel hear yop on te street." At this point, Deacon Smith' hastily withdrew, followed by his companion. Neither spoke a word till about separating, when the deacon said:- "Mr. Lawton, you will confer a very great favor on me by not making public what occurred 'to- night. You will, of course, pursue what course you think best. respecting young :Gaxrvey; but I need time- to consider my own duty in the matter." Martin staid with his friend that night, being too intoxicated to find his way home alone. The next day was Sunday; and when they rose, at a late hour, they found two notes" on the floor, one for each, that had been thrust under the door by the landlady. i"Hurry up, ,Mart!" 'said Reuben. "' It's 'most time for meeting. Don't read' your letter now; we ha'n't time."  It was hot unusual for Reuben to receive notes in this way, and so he did not feel any particular interest in this. But Martin was more curious, and could not wait till after meeting before ascer- taining the contents'of his. Hastily breaking the seal and glancing over it, a fierce oath burst from   362  V. CT&R LA TOURETTE. his lips. "I'm gone. up, Reub! Old Lawton has found me out! 't  Reuben stood aghast for a moment. His face, haggard from the-debauch of the past night, be- came doubly pale. Then, hastily snatching the hnote from Martin, he read aloud as follows: - "MR. MARTIN L. GARVEY. "Dear Sir, - It gives me much pain to say that your connection with my school is ,'at an end, and cannot be renewed.. I need only say, in explanation, that your visits to the 'Whited Sepulchre' have been, fully ex- posed. Still, I wish you well, and will endeavor to keep the matter private. Please call this evening at my study, as I desire to have some conversation with you. O ,     Truly your friend, "SANFORD LAWTON." "Haw! haw! haw'! Reib, a'n't that bully? The blasted old sinner! why, he couldn't suited me' better. I ha'n't heard so good news since he expelled me before. I'm off for the West now. Won't you go along, Reub? And now I think of it, by  ! you're in the same boat. Good-by to Betsey.", Reuben stood speechless for a time, trying to comprehend the situation. Of course Mr. Lawton must know that he was at the inn with Martin; but. this might be concealed from the public. In fact, Mr, Lawton had promised in his note to keep the matter private. At last he spoke:- "Mart, you W'n't careful enough. It don't make so much difference with you, but 'm ruined if this   EA VESDROPPING.       863 thing gets out. Old Lawton may-not tell. You 4 find out to-night, when you go to see him, what he knows, and try to persuade him to keep dark. I'll goito him with tears in my eyes, if necessary." "Reub, this is all nonsense. I'll expose you myself if you don't go west with me. I've got a plan I but what's in, your letter? Read it." "Oh! that is only from one of the women. They  are all the time -- Here his eyes fell upon the address, which was in the handwriting of Deacon Smith. In breathless haste he tore it open and read: -               - "Sir, -I would like to see you privately before meeting in relation to a very serious matter that has come to my notice. Your condition at the Wayside Inn, and your lewd conversation in which my name and Betsey's were used, are known to me. Still, I am reluctant to expose you, as you are my relative. The affair is known only to Mr. Lawtton and mnyself, and may be wholly concealed from the public.     -- "Yours, &c., "JONATHAN SMTI. ' THE REV. REUBEN SMTH.        - "That will do, Mart'. -I know just how the thing stands now. They must have been listening, and you know we sat close by the window. But I Idon't see how they came to suspect we went, there. It a'n't so bad, after all. The women will stand by me, and I kno'w Betsey won't cast me off." Then, after a pause, he added, 'But I hate to face the old deacon. And you are going A   8 O    YICTrOR LA TOURETTE. away, too, Mart. If I stay,- tey will be so sus- l picious of me, they will beo; dogging my steps wherever I go. I tell you what, Mart, I can't stand it here after this, and I've half a mind to go west with you. What is your plan?" ," I ha'n't made it up altogether yet, but we can fix it. Lawton will write to the old man to-morrow. I'll Write to mother to-day to have her take the letter from the post-office-as soon as it arrives there, and burn it up. She has donethe same thing for me once before. Then I'll writ? you are going out there as al missionary, and that I am going with you to finish my studies under your private tuition. You can forge a letter from Mr. Lawton recom- mending this course. We'll make lively' times in Detroit; and, when we've cleaned every thing out there, we'll move again. And we'll git Pete out there, too; for the deacon will be sure toclean him out here. We can start as soon as I get the money I expect, from the old man, which may be to- morrow. What do you say, Reub?" "I think I'll do it, Mart. I hate to leave, but it is better than to stay. I won't see the deacon;, but I'll write to him and Betsey, and make it all right with them. I'll fix it so that people will say the old doctor sent me away out of jealousy. They will think I'm a saint for going out as a mis- sionary, and- a victim of persecution. I haven't studied Pete's countenance of injured innocence for nothing. But I won't be gone long. I'll come back and marry Betsey, and get the old deacon's -money, after all." ,A   ItH CROSS. L6S CHAPTER XXIII:  THE CROSS. EFO  RE leaving Boston, Reuben wrote a very penitent letter to his uncle, confessing that  he had been tempted, on account of the great excitement and nervous prostration to, which he had been, subjected, to enter the Wayside Inn that night with his friend, and that he had imbibed too freely. But he denied that such had, been his  habit, or that he was aware of having made any allusions to him or Betsey. He'also wrote to his I cousin so tender and affectionate an epistle that she freely forgave him, and besought him to return. The deacon was more obstinate, though publicly he professed greatl confidence in his nephew, who, he hinted, had been driven away by the jealousy of Doctor Miller, - which the people were not slow to credit, Mr. JLawton earnestly, but in vain, attempted to justify the doctor. The people were tired of him, and treated him with so much disre; spect and unkindness that the aged pastorb soorn  sank under his burden. When he was gone, many shed tears over his grave who had treated him with the most indifference and ingratitude. Deacon Smith was one, of the most cn ostentatious mourner s, al lnehdbe   rvn  wyb   h  eluyj-   366'    VICTOR LA TOURETTE, and his daughter placed with her own' hands the flowers on the coffin. The funeral sermon, which was regarded as a most eloquent and touching trib- ute to the memory of the deceased, was preached by Reuben Smith, who soon afterwards received and accepted a call to, the vacant parish. His popularity, however, did not continue long, the interest of the ladies in him sensibly abating after his marriage with his cousin. And I may add, since it can be more conveniently narrated here, that finally, becoming very unpopular in, his own denomination, he abandonedit, and became a High- Church Episcopalian. But his fondness for strong drink continuing to increase with his public and domestic infelicities, he was finally compelled to abandon--the ministry altogether. Deacon Smith soon after died, leaving his entire property to his daughter, but in such a way that her husband could have no interest in it. The last Mr, Lawton knew of Reuben Smith was, that his wife had obtained a divorce from him on the grounds of cruelty and desertion. My father had been preaching in Detroit about three months when Reuben and Martin made their appearance there. His success was somewhat equivocal. At first many were attracted by curi- osity, but the population was mostly so rough and uncultured that little impression could be made upon it. The greater part were, Romanists, over whose spiritual welfare presided Father Gensonn6, the priest with whom my father had had his first 1   I  THE CROSS.       867 theological controversy. There were, however, a, large nlumber of Protestants, of whom Garvey was the most wealthy and infliential, though really despised by the better part of the community. These were ministered to' by the Rev. Timothy , Baker,-a man really devout and laborious, but full of cant and of little culture. My father soon found he had far greater diffi- culties to? contend with in this frontier settlement than he encountered in the little New England village where his ministry began. His culture and polished manners were against him, and his sensi- tiveness of mind caused him constant unhappiness, through the hostilities aroused by Garvey and the priest. 'He was sometimes insulted, his services frequently disturbed, and at times serious appre- hensions of violence were entertained  by his friends. But he carefully concealed his trials from my mother, whose health had become seriously impaired by her constant watchings at the bedside of her suffering father, who, to our great sorrow, died the sixth week after our arrival'in Detroit. Augustus, now Colonel Winslow, who, since the marriage of my parents, had done duty at various posts on the frontier, often visited us. He had great respect for my father, and in some degree sympa- thized with his purpose; but his: devotion to my mother was constant from the time she first awoke his boyish adoration on the ship. My sister Lou much resembled her mother, and Lou was his special favorite. He did,not take much notice of I !  - , , t    '   3'68    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. me, but brought her the costhest presents from the East. The last time he was at our house, he took my fat er aside, and said: If your, wife is able to endures the journey, I advise you to remove to the East without delay. Troublous times, I fear, are at hand. A war witlh England is not unlikely; and, should it occur, the Indians will rise to avenge their wrongs. In that case your position as a well- known sympathizer with them   will be critical. But, if you cannot leave Detroit, I advise you to stop preaching for a time, and also to abstain from all intercourse with the red men. You have some very bitter enemies, who would improve the first opportunity of working your ruin." My father was somewhat -startled by these words, as he could not be indifferent to the safety of his family. His sympathy with the Indians was well understood. Almost every day some were enter- tained at our house, Ottokee and Kear being fre- quent visitors and most intimate friends. But while his friendship with the Indians excited dis- trust and enmity on the part of the whites, he felt that he could rely upon their aid in case of danger. At that time, too, his congregations were increasing, and his ideas beginning to take a strong hold upon many minds. And so, after much hesitation, he determined to remain at his post, whatever might be the result. As soon as Reuben and Martin reached Detroit, the former began to preach. The Rev. Timothy                     * *   TH rE CROSS.       869 Baker was soon thrown into the shade, and was treated with so much contempt that he was com- pelled to resign his charge. Though he had said some very severe and bitter words in relation to my father, he came to him for sympathy and aid in his distress, and was furnished with means to enable, him to return East.- As the surest method of combating my:father's influence, Reuben determined to have a revival. A series of protracted meetings was begun, He went around from house to house with Garvey, praying and exhorting. Exciting hymns were sung, and all the usual accompaniments of an--" awakening " were resorted to. As anticipated, there was soon a' great excitement aroused. Conversions were too frequent to be counted. , Garvey was in his glory. The whole town crowded to the meetings, and even some Romanists were converted., Great ef- forts were made to bring in the Indians, but no impression could be made upon them. In the midst of the ;excitement my father did not abate his efforts, but with impassioned elo- quence and power presented what he deemed to be the true gospel scheme of salvation. He op- posed vehemently the idea that any inwrought change of nature was brought about by miraculous agency.  Christ converted men by his truth and example, if they were converted at all. The Holy Ghost no more converted the souls of men than the sunlight planted the seed. Otherwise Christ had not died. Men must first believe and obey the 16'e       x   870,    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. gospel, or the Spirit could not develop in themn a new nature. They must receive Christ, or the Comforter could not be given. Religion was not merely in feeling right, but consisted in thinking and doing right.: It was a true purpose, not a passing emotion. It was effort to aid others, not merely to save ourselves. It was charity and the spirit of self-sacrifice, not merely fervor or con- ceit of righteousness. Repentance was reform, entered upon deliberately, intentionally, -and of lone's own choice. Regeneration was the begin- ning, not the end, of a new life; the- conception, not -the birth, of a new creature. There was no new birth in this life. That could only occur upon our entrance upon a new world. We could not, as Nicodemus said, enter a second time into our mother's womb and be born. i As Christ taught,  the new birth was a birth of the spirit into a new world, the heavenly condition. There was not a single passage in the Bible-the Greek Testa- ment, from which the English was derived- which taught that a man could be born again in this life. Every word rendered " born" in Eng- lish was "begotten" in the original. Regenera- tion meant begotten, and denoted the conception, the beginning of a new manhood, and not a new birth. Nor was there a single example recorded in the Bible of a miraculous change of nature. Paul saw Christ in the heavens, not the Holy Ghost, --and was convinced of his truth, and fol- lowed him deliberately and of his own free will. I      THE CROSS.      .- 371 But his efforts were for a time vain. It was an easier way to get to heaven by a miraculous con- version and change of nature than by charity,- by emotion thani by self-sacrifice and good works; and so the method he taught was -unpopular. Few, and those mostly Indians, came to listen to his eloquent appeals, being drawn away by the more novel and sensational attractions of the great revival. It was useless to reason and explain,- "Great was Diana of the Ephesians." Still, the triumph of his cause seemed only a question of time, so untiring were his efforts and so powerful his assaults upon the popular delusion. Already had the excitement begun to wane, and his congregation to return, ihen the event oc- curred that terminated his ministry. Martin, who had figured as a prominent exhorter, was seen several times intoxicated on the street, riotous and profane. Drunkenness was more prev- alent than ever. After the meetings, Garvev's store was thronged till a late hour in the night, and the riotous crowds returning home made the night hideous with revival hymns. The better part of the community withdrew from the meet- ings, and began to listen with more attention and thoughtfulness to my father's teachings. Meantime, rumors of Indian hostilities' began to agitate the community. These were not alto- gether unfounded; for the remnants of the tribes that inhabited the adjacent forests had become, through Garvey's influence mainly, utterly de-     372    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. bauched and profligate, being frequently guilty of theft, and sometimes of violence. But they were more frequently the aggrieved party. One night, several were killed at Garvey's store by drunken whites, and no arrests were made. Nor' indeed was any notice taken of the matter publicly, except that Garvey, in the meeting following, prayed that the poor heathen around them might be converted, and continue peaceful aind submissive. But on another occasion, when in retaliation for an outrage upon his daughter, an Indian killed a white man, a- fierce excitement was, raised. And. as frequent conflicts and sometimes bloodshed oc- curred, in which the whites were generally the aggressors, the public mind became frenzied with alarm,. A public meeting was called for the pur- pose of devising measures of safety and protection from the savages. In that meeting my father stood 'up boldly and: denounced the wrongs to which the red men were subjected, charging that reckless and unprincipled whites were the cause of most ,of the disorders and bloodshed. A storm of shouts and hisses interrupted him and drowned!,his voice. It was 'an opportunity for his enemies they were not slow to iralprove. Reuben Smith sprang to, his feet. "You see, fellow-citizens," he' ex- claimed, "to what results this man's pernicious teachings tend. Not content with corrupting the minds of men, and thwarting the work of grace by his wicked heresies, he would also destroy your property and your lives. It is through his influ- '   THE CROSS.        873 ence that it is no longer safe to walk the streets, and that we are in constant danger of the toma- hawk and scalping knife." A loud burst of applause followed; and imme- diately demonstrations of violence towards my father were made. But for a timne the angry mob was held in restraint by his firm and determined bearing. At' this juncture the voice of Father Gensonne, the Romish priest, was heard. The French had, from the first, been more friendly to the Indians than the English had been, and, on account of his nationality and relation to De- schamps, not so hostile to my father. The priest saw that there was danger of bloodshed, and feared that some of his own people would become involved by attempting to defend my father. Moreover, he deemed this a favorable opportunity of promoting his own interests at the expense of both his rivals; for he was no less inimical to Reuben Smith than to my father. He besought the people not to proceed to violence. They should strive to judge M. La Tourette charitably. He regretted the inflammatory remarks of the young man recently from   Boston. Excitement was not judicious in serious deliberations. M. La Tourette had, perhaps, not intended by his course to imperil the lives of the citizens. He' hoped, however, he would in future 'be more cautious about giving encouragement to the savages, by his habitual hospitalities to them. He had been told that Indians who were connected with Tecumseh   VICTOR LA TOURETTE. had been seen at M. La Tourette's house; but doubtless he did not know they were spies, or he would not have entertained them. The priest continued at some length in this strain, craftily insinuating the most serious charges against my father, and striving to excite the most false and alarming suspicions. When he. was through, my father arose and re- pelled the insinuations in the most indignant tones. In conclusion, he said, turning to the priest: "I understand your motives, sir; but your purpose shall be thwarted, though it cost me my life. I reiterate the charges I have made. The white people themselves-those unprincipled men who but a moment since were ready to do me violence because I spoke the truth-are guilty of most of the disorders and bloodshed the red men are charged with. Treat the red men justly, and " The fury of Garvey's followers here broke forth afresh. Reuben raised the cry, "Traitor! traitor!" which the mob took, up with deafening yells. , A score of savage men rushed upon my father, who, while standing unmoved, offered not the slightest resistance as the brutal mob crowded around him, striving with each other for opportunities to reach him. Savage blows fell upon his unprotected head. Martin Garvey, reaching in between two brawny ruffians, thrust- a knife again and again into his  body, till he sank down bleeding and senseless. At that moment a band of seven Indians, headed by Ottokee, with terrific yells and uplifted toma-   ,THE CROSS.   875   hawks, leaped into the assembly. A terrible panic ensued. Almost instantly a wide path was cleared to where my father lay. Ottokee snatched him up -as if he. had been a child, and, without pausing, turned and fled, followed by his companions. ",  't6  .   VICTOR LA TOURETTE, CHAPTER XXIV. THE FLIGHT.& THOUGH I was but six years of age, I remem- ber as it were but yesterday my experiences on the 'day; my father was assaulted in Detroit. Every incident, however trivial, is distinct in my mind. I remember the hour of morning worship, the collect my father read, beginning, " O God, who. knowest us to be set in the midst'of so many and great' dangers," and ;his strange earnestness of mariner. At the breakfast hour he seemed so dis- trait and sad that I whispered to Lou, "Is mamma going to die?" My mother, who at that time was very feeble, had not yet risen, her sleep having been more disturbed than usual during the night. Hastily writing a letter, which he addressed to Colonel Winslow, and caressing us with even more than his usual tenderness, he went out as the clock was. striking nine. After he was gone, Lou and I busied ourselves with our lessons till near ten o'clock, when, as was usual, Paulina, our governess, dismissed us to pur- sue our sports in the open air. As we ran out on the porch, we caught sight of a band of Indians emerging from the foir'est and rapidly approaching - . THE FLHT   THE, F I[GHT.,     83" our cottage. We recognized at once the tall form of Ottokee in advance. Ottokee always brought us presents sent by his wife ,and children, and we ran forward to meet him in high glee. But this time he seemed to have forgotten us. He had no painted plumes, pretty boxes, nor baskets of ber- ies. "   Where papa?" he exclaimed, almost fiercely, even forgettinglr  to stoop down to caress us as he was wont. "Gone down town," said Lou.. And then, as he turned away instantly and strode with rapid steps down the path, she called after him: "Papa will be home pretty soon."       , But he did not seem to heed her, and Lou burst into tears. She had never before received such a slight from Ottokee. We had no heart after that for chasing bees and butterflies in the yard, and sat down sorrowfully under the big maple where Ottokee had built us a- seat, and had swung our hammocks from the tips  ; of the swaying branches. The opening of the porch door attracted our attention. We looked up, expecting to see Paulina coming out to call us to our studies; but it was mamma that appeared. She reached out her hand towards us; and we ran to meet her with cries of delight, it had been so long since she had been, out in the yard. But our merriment died on our lips as we leaped upon the porch; for we saw then -what we had not noticed before,- that she was ghastly white, and was trem- bling and gasping with some great agony. We i  f       , .   VICTOR LA TOURETTE. screamed with terror. I ran and grasped her hand. "-Mamma,! O mamma!"I sobbed, hiding my face in the folds of her dress. Lou struggled up to get her arns around her neck, and poured forth a torrent of tears. Her eyes, fixed and tearless, seemed gazing upon, some scene of unutterable anguish. "Papa! poor papa!" she gasped. Summoned by our cries, Paulina and the nurse hastened, to our aid, and at last our united en- treaties seemed to partially restore her to con- sciousness. She gazed around wildly for a moment, as if in search of some person not there. "Where is Kear, Paulina? ' Quick! put up the children's clothes; they will soon be here."  Passing into the house, she began hurrying, in the wildest haste, different articles of dress into a large basket that stood on the table, while the servants looked on in mute amazement, seeming frozen with terror. "Please help me," she pleaded; and then, seem- ing to comprehend the cause of their hesitation, she exclaimed, passionately, "Don't you know  they will murder us if we remain?" At that moment, distant shouts and the report of fire-arms were heard, and the servants ran screaming with terror from the room. Mamma looked beseechingly to us. "Help me, Lou! Bring papa's Bible." We sprang to do her bidding. In a moment more the basket was filled; hurried steps were heard on the porch; and four Indians, in hot haste,   THE FLIGHT.   burst into the room. Without pausing an instant, or uttering a word, each seized his burden, and the next moment all were fleeing like wild deer to the forest. We had a long start of our pursuers ; but their savage yells sounded behind, and the frequent crack of a rifle admonished us that they held us in view. The Indian who carried me was but a boy. Only four -weeks before, during the full of the moon, Ottokee had been at our cottage, and had brought with him his son, a tall, graceful boy, with a frank, manly bearing, and a face beautiful with its min- gled expression of gentleness, courage, and intelli- gence. He staid three days; the most joyous, I think, Lou and I had ever experienced. We be- came enraptured with Wiota. He opened to us a new world of romantic adventure and childish sports. He could leap at a bound across the wide brook that flowed past our door, and with me in his arms. He climbed the big maple in pursuit df my black squirrel that had escaped from its cage. How we shouted and laughed as both leaped from limb to limb! WWhat screams of delight when the little runaway was caught! Our ca oe skimmed over the moonlii waves like a swallow when he held the oar. What treasures we gathered with him from the woods,-grapes, berries, nuts, and wild blossoms.! When he had gone, he seemed to have taken all our sports with him; and his prom- ise to come again became our brightest anticipa- tion.  \ ' ;' ;         l 880     ICTOR LA TOURETTE. Our pursuers were gaining upon us. The Ind- ians were panting with'their burdens. I could not see behind; bift the report of rifles and the hum of bullets were constantly sounding in my ears. Suddenly a faint whoop was heard afar off, and a little to the right; and as Wiota turned, obedient to the signal, I caught sight of Ottokee, standing in the edge of the forest, his tall formpartially concealed by the trunk of a giant sycamore. I felt, then, that we were safe; that nothing could iharm us when Ottokee was so near. But why did he not come forth to help us? I raised my feeble voice to call him,-"Ottokee! Ottokee!"- but he remained motionless. All at once, as we came near, 1ie raised a wild, fierce yell, in which Wiota and his companions joined, and then instantly ceased running. The forest returned the shouts in a thousand echoes, as if a concealed army of red men had taken up the cry.* Wiota set me upon my feet. Looking back, I ;saw our late pursuers running towards the town, in apparently the utmost consternation. The ruse had succeeded. Fearing an ambuscade, our would- be murderers had fled. One of our number-the one who bore the 'basket, and who had been in the rear-was des- perately wounded,-but had not slackened his pace till now, when he fell gasping upon the turf. For- (tunately, we were near a spring of water; and he and my mother, who, had also fainted, were soon reviyed.   THE FLIGHT.       - 381 "Where is my husband?" she exclaimed, wildly, and endeav'oring to rise. "Safe now,',  said Ottokee, tenderly, but turned to hide his tears. Mamma instantly detected his emotion. " Safe? safe? Dead, do you mean?" she cried, piteously. "No; not dead," he exclaimed, lhurriedly, and grasping her outstretched hand  to prevent her falling. "-The shadow is dark," she faltered; "but Kear is a great medicine-man."  Soo1n after, Wiota, who had stood as a sentinel by the trunk of the old, sycamore, came running. A few rapid words were uttered in the Lenni- Lenape dialect, upon -which the Indians sprang up, and hurriedly resumed their burdens. The wounded Indian having already gone on, another took his burden. Ottokee lifted my mother as a babe in his arms, and, followed by Wiota and the rest, plunged into the dense forest.  , I afterwards learned that a company of soldiers from the fort had come out in pursuit, and that, after it was discovered how few in numbers our rescuers were, we were followed far into the wil- derness.  It was past noon when we started. 'For hours w2 went on rapidly and without pausing a mo- ment. At first I was so frightened at the thought of being pursued again, that I clung tightly to Wiota's neck, hiding my face on his shoulder; but at last I began to be attracted by the novelties of the way. Lou and I exchanged signals., and finally  .     .        .   :382    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. began to talk with each other, We had rare; sport. I caught tufts of leaves and threw at her jlaughed when the whirr of the partridge, starting up by the way, frightened her; shouted gleefully when we leaped over the brooks, and when, looking up, I caught sight of the clear sky through the tree- tops. But at last [I became tired and fell asle6p. When I awoke, I was lying alone on' a bed of leaves under e huge hemlock.- For a moment, not being able to recall the incidents of the day, and startled by my strange surroundings, I called out, in an ecstasy -ofterror, ,' Mamina! mamma!"Lou and Wiota came running. Lou laughed. Wiota lifted me in his arms. It was still daylight, though I saw, gleaming through the tree-tops, the rays of the setting sun. A little way off from where I had been lying were four Indians sleeping. Otto- kee was not one of them. He had gone back, they said, to help our wounded comrade, who had fallen by the way. "Victor!"Ca feeble voice calling me. "Mamma!"  I sprang out of Wiota's arms, and ran towards her. "Don't waken papa," she said, softly, folding me tenderly in her arms, and covering iny face with kisses. - She was seated on a soft couch of hemlock, and reclining against a hammock stretched between two slender trees. Beside her, motionless, and wrapped in blankets, was'a form I did not at first recognize; the face and head so dreadfully bruised,      ..- '  -  ' ' *" ', '.             \    THE FL IGHfT. '383 8 mangled, and swollen, that I shralnk back with horror when I first beheld it. "Poor papa!"               - - For an. instant I 'did not understand her mean- ing. "Is not Victor sorry for papa?" The truth flashed upon me. It brought to my soul its first great agony. i But I could weep then. With my face pressed to mamma's, I poured forth torrents of tears till Wiota came and took me in i his arms. He 'carried me a little way apart to where a spring of water bubbled up from the earth, and where a fire had been kindled. A part- ridge was roasting on the coals, emitting a savory odor. As I had eaten nothing since morning, my appetite was at once aroused, and my grief for the moment forgotten. Dried venison, pop-corn, roasted partridge, and grapes,- with cold water from the spring, made a most delicious repast. That night I lay awake a long time on my leafy couch, thinking of the strange adventures of the day. Had it not been for my grief at papa's suf- ferings, of which I was now and then reminded by his unconscious meanings, I should have been happy, for I had no fear with Wiota beside me. The moonlight gleamed here and there through the tree-tops. The woods were filled with a strange. din, - crickets in the leaves, and katydids on the branches, while frowm afWay off came a multitude of mingled murmurs that excited my imagination and filled my mind with childish fancies. But I   B84  ;  :VICTOR LA TOURET'TE. fell asleep at last, overcome by the constant chir- rup of the crickets. ,We had already resumed our journey when I awoke. The night was dark and chill; but I was wrapped in a; blanket, and pressed warmly to Wiota's breast. -Daylight was not long delayed; and, when it came, I saw that our number, had increased during the night. I could count twenty Indians following Wiota, among whom I recog- nized Kear. Papa, mamma, and the wounded Indian were carried on blankets. Ottokee carried Lou, and- was leading the way. We rested frequently that day on account of the wounded; but, just as the sun was ,setting, we encamped by a beautiful stream which I after- wards learned was the Kalamazoo. The next morning, when I awoke, I was lying in the bow of a canoe that Wiota was propelling rapidly down the stream. Lou was sitting: in the centre, as happy and merry as the birds that were flitting all around us, and filling the forests brim full of melody. Now we were gliding under the branches of trees almost overlapping the little stream, now shooting like'an arroqy down the rapids, plunging like a sea-gull throueg the foam, and then gliding over waters so smooth and deep that we could, see the sky and forests all, mirrored in their glassy depths. ';Wiota, was not less merry than Lou and I. Papa was better, he said. He told us all about is home, soon to be our home too; of the play- mates we would have there; of his little sister iR     '                    Neola, not as big as I; and of a thousand sports we could have.  It was a little p1ast midday, I think, when, rounding a wooded highland, we beheld the site of the village. None of the wigwams were visible, but we saw the smoke curling around the tops of the trees all along the hill-side. The grove was all alive with women and children who camne throng- ing to the pebbly shore as our canoes approached. Many of them had never seen white people before,' and gazed upon us with speechless wonder; while Lou and I were no less amazed at the unwonted scene, the' strange ways and curious' costumes of the people. -But' the momentary surprise we at first inspired was succeeded by the merriest greet- ings. Before the day closed, we were quite at home among: our strange playfellows. Waunee, Ottokee's wife,-- afterwards scarcely less dear than our own mother,-with her little daughter Neola, Wiota's sister, of whom he had told us so much, -a shy little girl of four years,- was the first to greet us. On our way up, to her wigwam Neola and I became very intimate. She had a pet fawn that attracted my attention at once, and which became the medium   of our mutual approaches. It would gambol and skip around us, thlrust its nose into our faces, and then run on before, finally tempting us to embark together in a hot but vain pursuit. Henceforth Neola and I were inseparable. We- grew up together, our lives intertwining more and more as our years increased, 17           - Y   886    VICTOR LA TOURETTE.        - until our thoughts, emotions, and spirits were blended in one. Neither time nor outward change has been able to sunder the tie that binds us to- gether; nor has death itself seemed to separate me for an instant from the presence, love, and sym- pathly of my spirit bride. * ', /   CONCLUSIOv.-        887 CHAPTER XXV. CONCLUSION. "MOST  unconfsciously--there is so much - that must be -left untold-I find myself approaching the close of mye narrative. Were I wrliting for the lovers of romance and adventure, and not for the purpose of unfolding though in :this I fear my effort is vain -a certain great print ciple that is the true leaven of the Christian faith, which represents in his Church the spirit and pur- pose- of Christ, and by which alone there can be ultimate unity-and brotherhood -on earth, I would' - have begun where I ,am compelled to close. I would have told in detail the story of my own life in the forest and in the city. Not that in itself, it presents the usual charms of romance, fqr it is full I of hopeless grief and disappointments, but because of its; association with certain othme liv s that at- ; tained, after: years of toil and trial, to the full frui- tion of earthly bliss. But my father's life was. nobler than theirs have been,.and, though it ended in obscurity, was not lived in vain. And if there is any thing in which I am myself permitted to glory, it is in the effort I have mlade, and am still making, to fulfil his dying injunction, that I   388     VICTOR L.4 TOURETTE. A     .    ,      ; i should enter the ministry of Christ, and assert, and constantly maintain, the Catholicity of the ' Church. Yet, that my narrative may not close too ab- ruptly, I will briefly sketch the incidents that fol- lowed our removal to the wilderness.  What was written in the introductory chapters will suffi- ciently indicate what our life there became; and it is not necessary I should agaii refer to my parents, except to say that through the skill of Kear their lives were prolonged till the autumn of the year following our, flight tq the -wilderness, and were attended with little furter suffering. My father died ,first. His injuries were of such a, nature that' at the best his existence here was but ,weariness; and at last he fell asleep, waking to consciousness in this life only for a brief moment, in which he bade us all farewell, and left for me the injunction to which I have' already alluded. My mother survived him only long enough to see ,the earth close over his remairn. Under the gath- , ering shadows of the twilight following, her pure spirit-fled away to join him in that land of peace where there are no separations, where every true aspiration is realized, every noble effort rewarded, and where the love and life of God are mingled together into one crystal river. Lou and I; after the death of our parents, re- mained at Bord du Lac, tenderly nurtured by our foster-parents, and instructed every day by Kear in all the things that pertain to the true develop-   CONCLUSION.        889 ment of soul and body. Meantime we heard little of the great world outside,-only rumors of a great war being waged between England, and. America, and that the Indians, under Tecumseh, had conspired together to avenge their wrongs. One dav that mighty chief and his brother, the great prophet Elskwatawa, visited our tribe to enlist the Lenni-Lenapes in the struggle. They were received with kindness; but neither Kear nor Ottokee favored their project. Kear said the do- ninion of the white races could only be resisted by. moral influences. Their vices were more dan-' gerous than their arms. Only by standing aloof from all intercourse with them could the red men esscape destruction. He approved of a close alli- ance of all the tribes, and would do all he could to promote it. Let all drop their mutual jealousies, and unite to repel the vicious influences of the whites, and in time their interests would be re-. spected; for there were-many true and just men among the whites, whose influence would finally prevail to secure to the red men their rights. He continued at great length, explaining in its minutest details what he deemed to be the true policy of his people.  When- he had concluded, Tecumseh arose. For a; moment, overcome with emotion, he could not utter a word; but at last, in passionateutterances, he began his reply. The great prophet of the Lenni-Lenapes was wise;  but his wisdom  was vain. The ancient glory of the race had departed, and could never be ,  *       ;*    , J"   390     VIC TOR LA TOURETTE.     e restored. The Great Spirit had hidden his face. The- red men must: perish for having forgotten the traditions of their fathers. The winds sighing through the hemlocks, the waters murmunurg, the voice of the raven, boded "in his ears only evil. The ancient flame could not be rekindled. Whly should he seek to fan the ashes in which the 15str spark had been extinguished? It was but too true that to contend,in arms would end in exter- mination. Still more resistless were the vices of the white men.  What, then, was his mission? Was it peace? No; it was war! Was it that they should perish in slavery? No; in liberty! Was it that they should die ignobly in debauchery? No; in honor and glory! Was it that his race so wronged should submit to injury? No; but that all injuries should be effaced in blood! Did he  crave pity? No; he would have only vengeance! I He appealed to Kear if this were not the tradi- tion of the race,--that death should be chosen rather than dishonor. Which was most praise- worthy, ' to die by the rifle of the soldier, or by the fire-water of the trader? He reminded themn of my father's example, whom he called their "pale-faced prophet." Did his white brothers show him any pity or mercy? Did he not choose death rather than dishonor? Did he not teach that the sacrifice of one's life for others secured a' home in the happy hunting-grounds? The red men would perish, but they might yet die in honor. Vice might be repelled, but it could be repelled   CONCLUSION.        391 only with th-e tomahawk. Besides, it was too late to' counsel peace. The struggle had already begun. Many of their brethren had fallen. Would the noble braves of the Lenni-Lenapes look on un- moved? Would not the wrongs and sufferings of their brethren arouse them to action:? Already were the pale-faces upon their borders.  Soon ,wouldc trading-posts be established on their own hunting-grounds. Would they  wait till, their young m-en were debauched with fire-water, their'  wives and daughters violated, and their wigwams in flames?-till they were utterly helpless to avenge their injuries? His impassioned spirit so fired the breasts of our young men, that, despite the united persuasions of Kear and Ottokee, many of them, of whom Wiota. was, one, enlisted with him. And so identified had my- existence become with that of th'e tribe, I was ashamed of my pale face, and, though but a child, longed -to go with Wiota.- Lou's spirit was equally aroused. Though Waunee appealed to her with tears to dissuade -Wiota from going, she remained silent. Whether a stronger bond. of attachment subsisted-between her and Wiota than is natural between children of the same family, I cannot say. I 'have never questioned her of this.  But their relations seemed not less intimate than mine with Neola.   She was then just budding- into womanhood; and the free life of the wilder- ness, combined with the careful training of -Kear, had imparted to her form the highest elasticity and   392    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. grace, and to her face the brightest bloom. 'In after years, in Mrs. Winslow's parlors, where were gathered the elite of Boston society, on thee occa- sion of her wedding reception, her beauty was. unrivalled.' The professor declared, that she was even more beautiful than her mother, whom he had once thought the loveliest woman he had ever seen. General Winslow was proud of his young beide, -his '"Indiani princess," as he called her, - i allusion to the ,pleasantry that had passed be- tween him and Marie on the ship. Her marriage proved a happy one, but sometimes the tears would start to her eyes when I alluded to. our noble i brother; and her son and daughter bear the names of Wiota and Neola.  The events that followed Wiota's departure are so sad that I cannot dwell upon them. Lou never saw him more. After he was gone, there was no more merriment in our previously happy home. Kear and Ottokee were much troubled, and con- stantly in consultation. At length the latter went away, and was -absent many days. When he re- turned, we learned that in great peril of his life he had been to Detroit, having heard that Colonel Winslow was stationed there, to consult with him in relation to Lou and me; for he and Kear, hav- ing most gloomy forebodings in relation to the future ,of the tribe, were anxious that we should be restored to our friends, if possible, while there was yet opportunity. I cannot describe the scene which followed the   ,   .     CONCL USIONv.       393 announcement that we were to be taken to Detroit and delivered to Colonel Winslow. When the time came for our departure, I clung in frantic terror to Waunee, who, refusing to be comforted, held me as tightly in her own embrace. Kear and Ottokee could not repress their sobbings.^ Only by the assurance that we might return again, when there was no longer any danger, were we finally persuaded to embark in- the danoe. that was wait- ing on the shore.  At the head-waters- of the 'Kalamazoo we were delivered to Colonel Winslow, who had come out with a detachment of soldiers to meet us. He received us with great joy,!and treated us most kindly.  Having received the letter my father had written on the' day of his assault, he had been unremitting in his efforts to fulfil its requests. Our property in Detroit had 'been carefully preserved. He had also been in: constant communication, till their death, with our grandparents in France, who had been so sollci- tous in relation to us that they had sent over an agent to prosecute a thorough searichlfor the lost children. My father had been reported killed, and my mother was so feeble at the time of our flight, it was not supposed she could have long survived. It was thought, however, their children might be living; but the disturbed state of the country prevented any thorough search searchbeing pros- ecuted among the remote tribes.. We were sent on to Boston at once, where we were placed under the care of Professor Winslow. 17*   394    IICTOR LA; TOURETTE. Lou was sent to a boarding-school, and I was placed under the tuition of Mr. Lawton, with whcm I remained till I entered the university. After the country had become settled, I visited Bord du Lac every summer during my long vaca- tions. Indeed, I was never happy except when there with Neola. Kear, Ottokee, and Waunee were always as dear, kind, and loving as they had been of old; but Wiota was changed. Of the band of young men who had- followed Tecumseh, he alone had survived; and when he came back, and found Lou gone, -and still more after some,- communications had passed between them,- he became gloomyand desponding. For weeks at a time he would be absent from the village,-in fact, was seldom seen at home, -.spending his time mostly in the seclusion of the forest. Still, When we met, he was not unkind. I pitied and loved him, and often tried to bring him back to himself, but in vain. He would answer my ques- tions, and often did me a kindness, but shunned me even as he did his parents and his sister. From year to year great changes were wrought. The fall of Tecumsedh, and the establishment of a permanent peace, brought numerous settlers into the wilderness. Settlements were made even on the banks of the Kalamazoo; and one, now the site of one of the chief towns of Michigan, not far from Bord du Lac. Here Martin and Pete estab- Elished a trading-post, and gathered around them a gang of desperate characters. Pete had followed   CONCLUSION.        395 Reuben and Martin on to Detroit, and, -after Gar-- vey's death, had become a partner in the store. Garvey died by violence, having been, one morn- ing, found dead in his bed, his throat cut, and his body otherwise mangled. His assassins were never discovered, though I have heard strong suspicions expressed that they -were of his own household. I could ,not fail to note, at each successive visit I made to Bord du Lac, the baneful influence of the white men upon the condition of our tribe. The influence of Kear and Ottokee became gradu- ally impaired, and, diseases and. vices creeping in, , the number constantly decreased, till scarce a dozen families survived. The two were broken-hearted, though they did not abate their efforts. In vain had they besought the tribe to flee from the pres- ence of the whites deeper into the wilderness. At first the reluctance of the people to leave their homes had constrained them to linger, till finally they had become sodclemoralized they could not be persuaded. The prophetic utterances of Tecumseh were coming true. All this Kear had foreseen, but was powerless to prevent after the disasters of the war.          ,   , While I was at Bord du Lac during the summer following the close of my senior year in college, a grave council was held by-tvhe survivors of the tribe, at which I was present. Ottokee and Wau- nee had at last consented to my union with Neola; and it had been arranged that, as soon as Bishop Willoughby and other friends could, come on to 1 x   -396    VICTOR LA TOURETTE. Bord du Lac, the marriage should take place. The next day I was to start for Detroit to see General Winslow, with whom I was to intrust the neces- sary arrangements, after which I was to return and await at Bord du Lac his coming. My engagement to Nebla had long been knownn to my friends; and the idea had been suggested by Mrs. Winslow, and enthusiastically seconded by all the rest, except the bishop, that they should' all go on to Bord du Lac on the occasion of the wed- ding. " "How romantic it will be!" said Marie,- "'a wedding in the woods." But her husband was not at all enthusiastic, though, after a good deal of persuasion, he was finally prevailed upon to assent, to the arrangement. In the first place, he did not approve of my marriage with an Indian woman, and was moreover timorous about ":trusting his life with the savages in the wilderness." But General Winslow finally persuaded him that there was no danger to be apprehended, promising to send out a guard of soldiers with him, if he de- sired. The council was held to determine what should' be done aftei Neola's narriage. Of course it would be necessary for me to spend most of my time within the confines of civilization, not only for the t purpose of completing my studies, but also to enable me to fulfil my father's injunction; but the wealth I had inherited from my grandparents would enable me to provide abundantly for all my Indian friends. In fact, my legal guardian, Pro-   CONCLUSION.        397 fessor Winsl1w, had already purchased for me of the government a tract of several thousand acres, including the Lenni-Lenape village and the lake, so that the tribe was secure in its possession. Buti the constant intrusion of white men into the vil- lage, and the annoyances and' insults the Indians were subjected to, rendered their condition most unhappy. Besides, they were not safe from personal violence. Several. members of the tribe had been murdered i shot down, in one instance, in mere wanton cruelty. But what had alarmed my foster- parents most, and which, when I first heard it, filled me with the utmost consternationi was, that Martin Garvey had seen Neola. The first tirnehis lustful eyes had beheld her, he had madcle insulting advances. After that, she had never ventured far from the cabin unattended, and had been watched over with constant vigilance by her fri'ends. At different times, too, white men, who were recog- nized as members of Martin's gang, had been seen prowling around the cabin. I had endeavored to persuade the- members of the tribe, and especially my foster-parents and, Kear, to remove within the borders of civilization. Of cqurse I did not expect them to live in the city, but they could live near me. There were forests even in Massachusetts. The proposition was enter- tained by the council, but met with little favor; and it was finally decided that immediately after the wedding, the tribe, which then numbered but twenty-seven persons, of whom  the most were   VICTOR LrA TOURETTE. women and children, should remove to the North, beyond the reach of the white men. I parted with Neola at our cabin door, as it was not deemed safe for her to venture as far as the shore of the river; and now, when I recall her memory, or see her in my dreams, she is revealed  in the same lovely garb, attitude, and expression I beheld when I glanced back upon her from the shadow of the forest. Kear was to accompany me as far as the head- waters of the Kalamazoo, where it was agreed he should await my return. On our way to the shore, Wiota, iwho had not been seen for a long time,. suddenly confronted us. We were both startled at his wxfild and haggard look. He did not utter a word, but wrung my hand for a moment in mute agony, and then plunged into the forests. I called after him, and waited for a time, hqping he would come back; for in the joy of my approaching marriage I felt more keenly than ever his grieF, and could not bear to see him so unhappy. Brt he did not come back; I saw him but once more, and then I buried him under the old oak on the bank of the river.  It was quite dark when our canoe touched the shore at the accustomed landing at the head-waters of the Kalamazoo. Kear had scarcely spoken all the way up; but as we wrapped ourselves in 6ur blankets, and were about to lie down to sleep, he suddenly grasped my hand. "Victor," said he, 4"I cannot solve this mystery, but it will be re-   V;   CONCL USION   299   vealed to-night. The spirits of thei dead are I thronging around me; but I am not permitted to see their faces nor understand their whisperings." I had had before a superstitious reverence for Kear, for there were some things he seemed to know that could have beer revealed only by inspi- ration; but this was the first time he had ever alluded to any communings with the spirits of the dead. I was filled with the utmost amazement and alarm. My impression was that his great grief at the misfortunes of his people, and his con- stant labors and anxieties in their behalf, had unsettled his mind, and perhaps even dethroned his reason. I had always slept soundly there after the weari- ness of the long journeys from Bord du Lac or Detroit, there was such a restful influence imparted' by the murmurs, of the forest, and the lullaby of mingling waters; but it must have been near Ipid- night when I fell asleep that night, and my sleep was troubled. Indeed, I am not certain that I had slept at all, when I was aroused by the voice of Kear. I sprang up at once. He was seated in the stern of the canoe, which was headed down the stream, and was holding the paddle in his hand as if about to depart. "Why, are you going home so soon?"I ex- claimed, in great surprise. He turned towards me his face, which by the moonlight I saw was ghastly pale, and replied: "We must return to bury the dead."  VICTOR LA TOURETTE. I sprang to the shore at a bound, and, grasping his shoulder, exclaimed fiercely: "Kear, Kear  what is -that you say? What do you mean? Dead? -Whois dead?" For a time he made no answer; but at last, looking up with an expression of the most ineffa- ble tenderness and pity, he whispered: "All are dead! all but me. I am the last of my people."  "All? Who? You do not mean that, that "- An awful presentiment choked my, utterance. "Yes," said Kear, divining what I would say, "Ottokee, Waunee, and Neola. I saw them all in  my dream." Trembling and tottering, I stepped into the canoe, and sank down utterly unnerved and helpless. Still, though momentarily overcome by the evil presentiment Kear's words and strange manner had inspired, I could not believe that those from Whom we had parted but a few hours before were really dead. I am  not naturally superstitious, and gradually, as we glided down the stream, re- covered in some degree my self-possession. The i dawning of the morning also served to dispel still more the weird impressions associated with the moonlight, and I ventured even to express to Kear my doubt of the reality of his vision. "Kear, I cannot think all our friends are dead so soon. Your dream was but a fancy, the ex- pression of your recent troubles and anxieties." I had never before expressed any lack of confi- dence in any statement he had made; I doubt   whether he had ever heard his truth questioned until now. He seemed startled, as if aroused suddenly to consciousness by my words, and turned towards me as if not fully comprehending them. But he did not reply. Bowing his face upon his hands, he suffered the canoe to drift down the tide. "Kear," I finally whispered softly, feeling the evil presentiment coming over me agaih, ' are you sure our friends are dead?" "Poor child," he sobbed, "there is no hope. Ottokee has told me all; and I saw their bodies lying cold and stiff in the moonlight." "Who murdered them?"I gasped faintly. ' Martin Garvey and" - "Martin Garvey!"  I fairly shrieked the name. A cold perspiration burst out on my brow, and my knees smote together, as a possibility worse than death was suggested to my mind. "Bit ;Neola escaped," exclaimed Kear, hur- riedly. "They would have carried her away, but for, the silver dagger you gave her." Though these last words of Kear brought full cpnviction to my mind of the reality of his vision, -for I had secretly procured for Neola, and at her request, a silver dagger, of which Kear could have known nothing,-I yet experienced a mo- mentary relief. I have never shed a tear for her, though even then, as I turned to assist' Kear to propel the canoe down the current, the full con- sciousness of my utter and hopeless bereavement    402    VICTOR zLA fOUETTE., came upon me. I saw clearly what I have since fully realized, - though I did not think I must wait so long,--that I must, henceforth seek con- tentment solely in devotion 'to Christ's purpose, and consolation only in the promises of the life to come. Even in that hour'of trial, a strange ex'ul-- tation gradually sprung up in my breast. Neola's love and heroic example I determined should be the inspiration of my own efforts and sacrifices. But, as we approached the site of the village, my courage wavered. Perhaps I still entertained a faint hope that iKear had been deceived. I could hear the throbbings of my heart; and only by my exertion with the oar could I restrain my agita- tion. Rounding the highland above the village, an emotion of hope momentarily thrilled my breast as I saw the smoke curling above the tree-tops as was wont. But the grove was deserted. No chil- dren were seen at play; and an ominous stillness brooded over the valley. I glanced back at Kear. He seemed unlmoved; but his face wore; the same gloomy and hopeless expression. Catching my eye, he said, "Victor, have you courage to look upon the faces of the dead?' I did not reply. A great sob I could not utter choked my speech. In silence we drifted down the stream, rapidly approaching the accustomed landing. Something on the shore attracted my attention, which I could not at first make out; a small bundle of clothes it seemed,   CONCLUSIoN.        408 lying in the edge of the water. But as we drew nearer I saw, with a thrill of horror, a little hand. It was a dead infant, tossed, doubtless, from the bank into the river, and thrown by the tide 'upon thie shore. Thle stillness was so profound that I was startled by the grating of the canoe upon the pebbles. Kear stepped out at once, and, drawing the deada infant from the water, and washing the blood from its mangled face, laid it down tenderly 'in the shade of the forest. The -scenes following, that were presented to our sight as we walked slowly through the grove, were too- horrible for detail. The bodies of women and children strewed the ground; and, when we reached the hill-side, burned and blackened corpses were seen amid the smouldering embers of the wigwams. But we did not linger long there, but passed on towards the lake. As yet we had seen the bodies of none of the men of the tribe, except that of, one old man partially consumed among the smoking ashes of his wigwam. As we drew near the lake, my .strength and courage again wavered, compelling me to lean heavily for a moment upon Kear for support. Near the cabin we came to the scene of conflict, where - the dead bodies of seven Indians and as many white men strewed the ground. The history of the struggle -was soon apparent. Ottokee lay dead in front of the cabin door, which had been beaten in with axes. Inside we found Neola and her  ,              ,   404    VICTOR LA TO URETTE. mother. When the door had been beaten in, Otto- kee had leaped out, tomahawk in hand, and ]lad, instantly been shot down. Waunee was horribly cut and mangled with axes by her murderers as she had stood between them   and her daughter, while ,the latter, still clasping in her right hand the dagger she had buried to the hilt in her heart, had knelt down and fallen forward with her face upon her mother's. The murderers, seeing their purpose foiled, had hastily retreated from the cabin, doubtless fearing an attack from the village. But, as they were just entering the forest, Wiota, with his six comrades, --the entire force of the village, -had burst out upon them. The conflict must have been brief. How many the whites numbered could not be determined; but the fallen Indians were each riddled with bullets. Yet not one had fallen unavenged, for each had buried his toma- hawk in the head of an enemy. Martin and Pete were among   the dead, the former having been slain by Wiota.  The last act was the massacre of the defenceless women and children and the burn- ing of the village. The remainder of the day we spent in bringing the dead together at the place of burial under the old oak; and, as soon as the moon had risen, we continued the work, not resting till we had buried all. I often wonder what could have sustained me in that great agony; for, after I had seen Neola, I felt no more weakness till the dust was closing over   COVCL USION.        405 her. I knelt down and lifted her head gently, putting back the silken tresses from her lovely face. But it-would ill become me to linger here, and perhaps I have alluded already too frequently to my own grief; for I would gladly hove had no part in this narrative, if otherwise its purpose, could, have been unfolded. With her right hand still grasping the dagger she had buried in her. pure and loving heart, and with her left-,not less tightly the golden locket containing my likeness - dressed in her green and russet robes, and wrapped in her scarlet blanket, we buried-her; laying her down gently in her grave upon a soft couch of fern, and covering her first with leaves and blos- soms.* Kear and I reached Detroit the same evening' that our friends arrived there from Boston. For weeks I remember no more; and but for the con- stant care of Kear, who did not leave my bedside till I awoke again to consciousness from my delir- ium, I should not have been long separated from my spirit bride.] General Winslow   made some effort to bring the surviving murderers to justice, but in, vain. The soldiers and border men sym- pathized with them; and even the public press, though it was noticed but by one or two papers, excused the massacre, the usual plea being set up, that the deed was justifiable as a measure of retal- iation, and of security to the frontier settlers. Kear and I did not part company for many years. We- spent some time in Boston, after which  ,   406'    ,    izCoR L TOURErE T  we crossed the ocean, visiting my father's, early home, lingering long among the mountains of a Switzerland, and then passing over into Africa, where we spent a winter in the solitudes of its deserts and forests. Thence crossing over into Asia, we continued -our journey eastward till we reached the northern shores of the Pacific. Land- king on the coast of British America from a Rus- sian vessel, and spending some time among the Indian tribes of Oregon and Missouri, after an absence of ten years we sat down once more under the old oak on the bank of the river. The entire journey, except when crossing rivers and oceans, we had performed on foot; and, after leaving Europe, we had not entered a single human habi- tation. Kear's experience in the forests, his uner- ring judgment, and his instinctive knowledge, preserved us from all dangers, and ministered to every necessity. Our life was wholly natural; yet we experienced no discomforts, suffering neither from cold nor hunger. But, as I purpose at some time hereafter to write a history of Kear's life, it is not necessary that I should recount here .the incidents of-our journey, nor the circumstances of our final separation. , , \ mbridge Press of, John., on Son cabide .rs fJh  o Sn   j  r-. * X j c/c/- rs -D j.  nerd  jrup  c ZonS   ;-W THE CHRISTIAN IN THE, WORLD. By Rev. D.  t. FAUNCE.    x6mo.   Price $I.50.    Contents: The Statement; The Method; Principles; The Christian         in Prayer; The Christian in- his Recreations; The Christian in his Business,  From the Boston Cultivator. It will be remembered that by the will of the late Hon. Richard Fletcher a fund was bequeathed to Dartmouth College, from the proceeds of which should be offered biennially a prize of $500 for the best essay on the importance of holy living on the part of Christian professors, and to the' author of this admirably written work has the prize been awarded. This earnest, practical, appeal for a: higher standard of Christian living comes fresh from the heart, and we think must reach the heart and bring forth fruit in the lives of those who read it. In its wide application it comes to the Christian in his business and social relations, his daily duties and recreations, telling him how in all these varied relations he can be a "Christian in the World," and a blessing to his race. From the Christian Era. But the characteristic of the work, one which will attract to it a class of ;ntelligent, spiritual-minded Christians, the unorganized fraternity of the inner and the outer life, is its lofty, uncompromising, exhilarating idealism. It exhibits the perfect man in Christ, and to that picture it points with. the calm earnestness of conviction, though with the humility and sympathy begotten by the consciousness of sin and the remembrance of divers stumblings in the way of life. From the Syracuse 7ourernal Mr. Faunce is a clear and forcible writer, whose name is familiar to readers of the Baptist press, and in' this essay he has most powerfully and practically developed his subject.. He first impresses the practicability and positiveness of Christian duty, demanded alike from Christians and busy men in the world. The first five chapters are devoted to the Statement, Method, and Principles involved, devoting the remaining chapters to the duty of the Christian in rayrer,. in his Recreations, and finally in his Business. The full, rich, practical suggestiolns: - contained in this essay, the earnest spirit which inspired it, and withal its pleasantp flowing style, render it one of the most desirable of books on kindred topics, and we bespeak for it at least a place in every Christian library. Sold everywhere by all Booksellers.     Mailed, postpaid, by the Publishers,         ,  ROBERTS BROTHERS, BosTON. -;   , Messrs. Roberts Brothers'       Publications. SINGERS AND SONGS OF THE LIBERAL FAITH; being selections of Hymns and        other Sacred Poems of the Liberal Church in America, with Biograph- ical Sketches of the    Writers, \and  with   Historical and Hustrative  Notes.   By  ALFRsD    P. PUTNAM.   8vo. Price  3.oo00.  ' * From the New York Inxdetenden. The service which has been done by Dr. A. P. Putnam, of Brooklyn, to those communions usually called Liberal, by compiling hisjbeautiful book entitled "Singers and Songs of the Liberal Faith," is one not easily exaggerated.  As literature, these hymns have a high value; but they signify most as expressions of religious sentiment, as devout utterances of trusting and aspiring souls . There is, as Dr. Putnam reminds us, very little heresy in hymns. And we pity the bigot,who could read this volume through without feeling some drawings of Christian fraternity toward the people whose 'deepest life is here so nobly expressed. From the Liberal Christian. It is very creditable to the editor that he has embraced so large an area and reaped the fruits of fields lying as far apart as the utmost extremes of our Zion., We find no evidence of any partisan or school prejudices in his selections; indeed, we know no work from which personal biases have been more successfully or: creditably excluded. In this respect, Dr. Putnam's volume is a true Irenicon,. 'a peacemaker; sweetly reconciling the discordant voices of denominational polemics, in the harmony accordant of song-. We cannot doubt that the assem- bling of so many and such dissimilar thinkers, in one chorus of praise, is a long' step towards a union in higher sentiments of those temporarily divided by intellectual diversities.               , From the Christian Union. Ti;e literary value of Mr. Putnam's collection is unusually high, when we: compare it with that of other volumes of religious poetry. To our minds the: most convincing evidence of the existence of religious feeling among the people is the immense circulation of books of religious verse. We speak from actual knowledge when we say that certain compilations of religious poems have sold in greater numbers than the works of the most popular poets. These pious verses have, as a rule, been entirely devoid of poetic Expression or sentiment, but their subjects have reconciled readers to all literary defects. Admirable as is the spirit; which accepts' such books, we cannot help believing it would be improved and. elevated if the same thoughts- were presented in language more poetic; for spirituality is, practically ,the poetry of devotion. iWe hope, therefore, that Dr. Putnam's book will be largely bought and read. Sold evyerywhere by all Booksellers.     Mailed, postpaid, by! the  Publishers,  ROBERTS BROTHERS, BOSTON,      
         
       
   
