
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 50, Issue 3, pages 201-320. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:50+issue:3+year:1954&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Indiana and Fugitive Slave Legislation
            Emma Lou Thornbrough∗
            Of the many aspects of the slavery controversy which absorbed a large part of the energies of the 
                        United States
                     in the decades before the Civil War, none produced more bitterness than the question of
                    the rendition of fugitive slaves. In the constitutional realm this gave rise to conflicts over the
                    respective spheres of authority of the national and state governments and led also to problems in
                    interstate relations. A study of the legislation of Indiana relating to the subject of fugitive
                    slaves will, perhaps, throw additional light on the question as it affected the whole nation.
            The provisions regarding both fugitives from justice and fugitives from labor were found in Article
                    IV, Section 2, of the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    , which said:
            "A person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or other crime, who shall flee from
                    justice, and be found in another State, shall on demand of the Executive authority of the State from
                    which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the crime.
            "No Person held to Service or Labour in one State, under the Laws thereof, escaping into
                    another, shall, in Consequence of any law or Regulation therein, be discharged from such Service or
                    Labour, but shall be delivered up on Claim of the Party to whom such Service or Labour may be
                    due."
            Although there appears to be some evidence that the framers of the Constitution thought that the
                    article would be self-executing, Congress in 1793 passed "An Act respecting fugitives from
                    justice, and persons escaping from the service of their masters."1 The
                    first part of the law dealt with the 
                  
                     ∗ Emma Lou Thornbrough is associate professor of history at 
                                Butler
                             University.
                  
                     1
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, I, 302-305.
               
                     procedure to be used in the extradition of fugitives from
                    justice. It provided that upon the presentation of a copy of the indictment or an affadavit charging
                    the fugitive with crime, it became the duty of the governor of the state to which he had fled to
                    have him arrested and delivered to the agent of the state from which he had fled.
            Section three of the act dealt with fugitives from labor. In these cases the claimant or his agent
                    might arrest the slave in any state or territory (without the necessity of securing a warrant) and
                    take him before any 
                        United States
                     judge or state magistrate. Evidence in the form of oral testimony or affadavit was to
                    be submitted by the claimant; if the judge or magistrate was convinced of the claimant's
                    right to the fugitive, he was to issue a certificate authorizing the removal of the fugitive to the
                    state or territory from which he had fled. The act provided penalties for obstructing the arrest of,
                    or harboring or concealing, a fugitive.
            From the fact that both the constitutional provisions and the law of 1793 link the rendition of
                    fugitives from justice and fugitives from labor, it is apparent that the framers of both the
                    Constitution and the law thought that the procedure for the return of fugitive slaves was in the
                    nature of an extradition process rather than a judicial trial. Hence it is not surprising that the
                    law did not provide the judicial safeguards, such as a jury trial, which are guaranteed in the Fifth
                    and Sixth Amendments of the Constitution. The federal law merely provided the procedure for removing
                    a fugitive to the state from which he had fled.2
            
            Theoretically, at least, the fugitive, once returned to the state from which he had fled, if entitled
                    to his freedom, could institute a suit in the courts of that state. In practice, however, the
                    fugitive's fate was nearly always determined by the hearing before the magistrate which the
                    federal law provided, It soon became apparent that the law did not provide any protection to free
                    Negroes against illegal seizure and enslave- ment. Indeed, the act made it relatively easy for the
                    unscrupulous to kidnap free persons, claim them as fugitive slaves, and receive warrants to carry
                    them away.
            The threat to the liberty of free colored persons created a dilemma for state lawmakers, particularly
                    in states like 
                  
                     2 See Allen Johnson, "Constitutionality of the Fugitive Slave
                            Acts," Yale Law Journal (
                                New Haven
                            , 1891-), XXXI (1921), 161-182.
               
                     Indiana which bordered on slave states. On the one hand there
                    was an obligation to protect the liberties of the colored residents of the state; on the other was
                    the obligation under the Constitution and laws of the 
                        United States
                     to return fugitive slaves. As early as 1810 the legislature of Indiana Territory showed
                    an awareness of the problem and enacted stiff penalties for kidnaping. It provided that any person
                    who attempted to remove a Negro from the territory must first prove before one of the judges of the
                    court of common pleas or a justice of the peace that he was "legally entitled to do so
                    according to the laws of the 
                        United States
                     and of this territory… ." After such proof had been given, the
                    claimant was to receive a certificate authorizing the removal. For failure to comply with this
                    procedure the penalty was a fine of $1,000.00—one half of which was to be paid
                    to the informer, the other to the territory. The guilty person was also liable to a damage suit by
                    the aggrieved person.3
            
            In his first message to the General Assembly after Indiana became a state, Governor Jonathan Jennings
                    recommended legislation "to prevent more effectually any unlawful attemph to seize and
                    carry into bondage persons of colour, legally entitled to their freedom, and at the same time as far
                    as practicable to prevent those who rightfully owe service to the citizens of any other state or
                    territory, from seeking within the limits, of this state a refuge from the possession of their
                    lawful owners." The legislature responded with "An Act to Prevent
                    Manstealing." To protect free Negroes, the act provided that any person who forcibly seized
                    or arrested a person, with the design to take him out of the state, without establishing his claim
                    according to the laws of Indiana or the 
                        United States
                    , was subject to a fine of from $500.00 to $1,000.00. The law also
                    prescribed a procedure for reclaiming fugitives which differed from that provided in the federal law
                    of 1793. Under the Indiana law the claimant was required to secure a warrant for the arrest of the
                    alleged fugitive from either a justice of the peace or judge of the supreme circuit 
                  
                     3 Lewis B. Ewbank and Dorothy Riker (eds.), The Laws of
                                Indiana Territory, 1809-1816 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1934) 138-139. This is volume XX of the Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916-). Jefferson Count records show that two ersons were indicted under the
                            act in 1816, gut neither wm convicted[: 
                                Jefferson County
                             Civil Order Book, 1812-1818 pp. 163, 167, 168, 170, 178. (The unpublished court
                            records cited in this article are on microfilm in the Indiana State Library.)
               
                     courts, and the arrest was to be made by either a sheriff or
                    constable. After the arrest the justice of the peace or judge of the circuit court was to hear all
                    testimony from both plaintiff and defendant, i.e., claimant and fugitive. If he decided that the
                    plaintiffs claim appeared to be well-founded, a trial was set for the next term of the circuit
                    court, at which the alleged fugitive was guaranteed a "fair and impartial trial by a
                    jury." If the verdict was in favor of the claimant he was to receive a certificate for
                    carrying the fugitive out of the state, but only after he had paid the costs of the trial. The act
                    also imposed fines on persons who gave false certificates of emancipation to runaway slaves or who
                    knowingly harbored runaways or encouraged slaves to desert their masters. In 1819 the measure was
                    amended to provide that in addition to being fined a person convicted of manstealing might receive a
                    whipping of from ten to one hundred lashes.4
            
            It is obvious that the laws of 1810 and 1816, particularly the latter, raised questions of possible
                    conflict with the federal statute of 1793. The Indiana lawmakers sought to avoid this pitfall by
                    providing that claimants must retake fugitives under either the Indiana law or the
                    law of the 
                        United States
                    , thus making the law permissive rather than mandatory. In other words, either procedure
                    might be used. The procedure for arresting the fugitive under the Indiana law required a warrant and
                    arrest by the sheriff, whereas the federal law did not. More important, the Indiana law provided
                    that the case should be decided by a jury, while the federal law provided for a summary hearing.5 Because of the apparent conflicts some persons argued that the Indiana law was
                    unconstitutional. At the same time others maintained that the act of Congress was invalid since the
                    clause on fugitives from labor in the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                     did not expressly grant Congress the power to legislate on the subject. Therefore, it
                    was asserted that although there was an obligation to return fugitive slaves, the states, not
                    Congress, should legislate on the subject.
            
               
                  4
                        Indiana House Journal, 1816-1817, p. 11; Laws of Indiana, 1
                        Sess., pp. 150-152; Laws of Indiana, 3 Sess., 1819, p. 64.
               
                  5 For a further analysis of this question see William R. Leslie,
                        "The Constitutional Significance of Indiana's Statute of 1824 on Fugitives
                        from Labor," Journal of Southern History (
                            Lexington
                        , 1935-), XIII (1947), 338-353.
            
            
            The two points of view were argued in a case which came before Judge Benjamin Parke in the 
                        United States
                     District Court for Indiana in 1818. The case involved the freedom of a Negro woman,
                    Susan, whom a Kentuckian, John L. Chasteen, claimed as his slave. Susan had been arrested under the
                    Indiana law, and the case had been certified to the court of 
                        Jefferson County
                     for trial. However, Chasteen signified his intention of taking the case to the federal
                    court instead and asked that the case in the county court be dismissed. Thereupon Susan's
                    lawyers sought an injunction in the 
                        Jefferson County
                     court to prevent Chasteen from carrying her out of the state until she had had a trial
                    under the Indiana law. The 
                        Jefferson County
                     judge decided that the case should be tried under the state law and ordered the
                    claimant to post bond as security that Susan should not be removed until such a trial had been
                        held.6
            
            Chasteen, however, ignored this order and sought a warrant from the 
                        United States
                     court. In this court Susan's lawyers moved for a dismissal of the case on two
                    grounds: first, that the fugitive slave clause of the 
                        United States
                     Constitution conferred no authority upon Congress to legislate on the subject; and
                    second, that even if the constitutionality of the federal law of 1793 were admitted, the states had
                    concurrent power to legislate on the subject. These arguments were rejected by Judge Parke in an
                    opinion which was probably the first one handed down by a federal court concerning the
                    constitutionality of the law of 1793.7 He held that the act of Congress was
                    valid and superseded state laws on the subject. He admitted that a concurrent power might be exerted
                    by a state on the same subject "for different purposes, but not for the attainment of the
                    same end." He pointed out that the methods prescribed in the federal law and the Indiana
                    law were incompatible and that since appeal had been made to the federal law that procedure must be
                    used. "It is unnecessary to inquire whether one or the other [state or federal law] is best
                    calculated to promote the ends of justice. It is sufficient that congress have prescribed the
                    mode." Therefore, the motion of Susan's lawyers to dismiss the case was overruled.
            
               
                  6
                        Susan a woman of color v. Heirs and Legal Representatives of
                            Lewis Chasteen, in Chancery, 
                            Jefferson County
                         Civil Order Book, 1812-1818, pp. 496-498, 532-533.
               
                  7
                        In re Susan, 23 Federal Cases, 444-445.
            
            
            Although Parke did not declare the Indiana law unconstitutional it is apparent that his opinion would
                    have the effect of limiting the use of the law.
            Meanwhile, in the 
                        United States
                     Congress efforts were being made to amend the act of 1793 in the interests of the
                    slaveholders. A bill proposed in December, 1817, provided that alleged fugitives should not be
                    identified nor the owner's claims proved in the state where the capture was made, but that
                    the fugitive should be taken to the state where the person claiming him resided and there the case
                    should be heard. The bill also made it a penal offense for a state officer to refuse to assist in
                    carrying out the act. These proposals reflect the slave states residents' fear of the
                    hostility of northern magistrates toward the South's "peculiar
                    institution." In the debates over the measure the strongest objections raised were that the
                    law would not provide adequate guarantees against the kidnaping of free Negroes. The bill failed to
                    become a law because the House of Representatives refused to concur in amendments proposed in the
                        Senate.8
            
            The opinion of Judge Parke, added to the threat of Congressional action, was no doubt responsible for
                    a joint resolution adopted by the Indiana General Assembly in December, 1818. The resolution asked
                    that Congress pass no legislation which would deny persons claimed as fugitive slaves the right of
                    jury trial: "Whereas sundry persons destitute of every principal of humanity are in the
                    habit of seizing carrying off and selling as slaves, free persons of color who are or have been for
                    a long time inhabitants of this state: and whereas all persons resident therein, are under the
                    protection of our laws, and fully invested with those invaluable rights, guaranteed by our
                    constitution namely, life, liberty & the pursuit of happiness of which they cannot be
                    divested but on conviction of crime against the community of which they may claim to be members, by
                    a jury of their country according to law. Therefore most solemnly disavowing all interference,
                    between those persons who may be fugitives from service and those citizens of other states, who may
                    have a just claim to such service, whenever such claim is legally established we deem it our just
                    right to demand the proofs of such claim to service according to our laws. Wherefore.
            
               
                  8
                        Annals of Congress, 15 Cong., 1 Sess., I, 446-447, 513, 829-830, 837-840, II,
                        1339, 1393.
            
            
            
               "Resolved, by the general assembly of the state of Indiana, that our
                    senators in congress be instructed and our representative be requested, to use their exertions to
                    prevent congress from enacting any law, the provision of which would deprive any person resident in
                    this state, claimed as a fugitive from service of a legal constitutional trial, according to the
                    laws of this state before they shall be removed therefrom."9
            
            While the case of one Negro woman named Susan had raised the question of conflict between the Indiana
                    law and the federal law on fugitive slaves, the case of another Susan was the occasion for a lengthy
                    altercation between Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    , involving both the problems of fugitives from labor and fugitives from justice. The
                    second Susan had been held as a slave by Richard Stephens, a resident of 
                  Bardstown, Kentucky
               , but had escaped to Indiana in 1815 or 1816. Prior to her purchase by
                    Stephens she had been held by a master who lived near the boundary between 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and who had operated a ferry across the Monongahela River. In Indiana, Susan instituted
                    a suit for her freedom in 
                        Harrison County
                    , claiming that she was free as the result of her former residence in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
            In response to a writ of habeas corpus issued in 
                        Harrison County
                    , Stephens replied that he held a bill of sale for Susan which warranted her a slave for
                    life. In August, 1818, the case was tried in the circuit court; the jury returned the following
                    verdict: "We of the jury find the Negro woman to be the property of Richard Stephens and
                    that the said Negro woman be returned to him again." However, on the motion of
                    Susan's attorney, a new trial was ordered, and the case was continued for several terms of
                    the court.10
            
            Faced with this delay in the recovery of what he regarded as his lawful property, Stephens decided
                    upon a program of direct action. Accordingly, his son, Robert, came to Indiana and with the aid of
                    two accomplices carried off Susan from 
                  
                     9
                     Laws of Indiana, 3 Sess., 1818, 141-142. In 1819
                            the 
                                United States
                             House of Representatives again took up consideration of a bill to strengthen
                            the law of 1793 but it failed to pass. Annals of Congress, 15 Cong., 2
                            Sess., I, 546, 551.
                  
                     10 Susan (a Woman of Colour) v. Richard
                                Stephens, 
                                Harrison County
                             Circuit Court Order Book, 1817-1820; Nellie A. Robertson and Dorothy Riker
                            (eds.), The John Tipton Papers (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            . 1942), 1,146 n. These volumes are XXIV-XXVI of the Indiana Historical Collections.
                  
               
                     the home of Daniel C. Lane in 
                        Harrison County
                    , where she was staying while awaiting a new trial. For this abduction Robert Stephens
                    was indicted on a charge of manstealing by a grand jury in 
                        Harrison County
                    . A warrant for his arrest was issued, and Governor Jennings signed a warrant for his
                    extradition from 
                        Kentucky
                    , in accordance with the part of the federal law of 1793 which dealt with fugitives from
                    justice. The warrant for extradition was delivered by John 
                        Tipton
                    , sheriff of 
                        Harrison County
                    . Tipton was apparently on friendly terms with both the elder and the younger Stephens;
                    Robert Stephens had written to him earlier about the possibility of carrying off Susan.11
            
            The governor of 
                        Kentucky
                     refused to extradite Stephens, who was a member of the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature. Stephens wrote a letter to Tipton urging him to use his
                    "influence to put an end to the affair," and suggesting that it would be unwise
                    for the governor of Indiana to send another warrant. If the attempt at extradition were renewed,
                    Stephens warned 
                        Tipton
                    : "I beg of you not to be the messenger and should any man for whom you have a
                    high regard be deputed for the purpose warn him that he will occupy dangerous ground for sir if I am
                    surrendered I will have to resort to the law of nature self preservation and every consideration
                    which can stimulate a high minded man might force me to do what in another situation would be more
                    than criminal I dont Know what will be the consiquencis I fear even in immagination to look forward
                    to the event."12
            
            The continued efforts of Jennings to bring Stephens and his associates to trial in Indiana caused a
                    lengthy wrangle between the governor and legislature of Indiana and the governor and legislature of 
                        Kentucky
                    . The cases of Susan and Stephens were not the only ones involving the related 
                  
                     11 Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, I,
                            146-147; Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Papers of Jonathan Jennings, Ratliff
                                Boon and William Hendricks (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924), III, 99, 104-105. This is volume XII of the Indiana Historical Collections. In resorting to this method of recovering his property,
                            Stephens appears to have been acting on the advice of some residents of Indiana. Susan
                            evidently escaped from her captors. The abduction occurred in November, 1818, and in April,
                            1819, she appeared in court with her lawyer to give security that she would appear at the
                            next session of the court. 
                                Harrison County
                             Circuit Court Order Book, 1817-1820.
                  
                     12
                            State of Indiana v. Robert Stephens, 
                                Harrison County
                             Circuit Court Order Book, 1817-1820; Robertson and Riker, The John
                                Tipton Papers, I, 147, 171, 173-174. Spelling and punctuation in Stephens'
                            letter are as in original.
               
                     problems of rendition of fugitives from labor and justice, but
                    their cases highlighted the issues.
            Earlier, at its session of 1816-1817, the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature, as the result of the escape of Susan or similar escapes, had passed a
                    resolution requesting the acting governor, Lieutenant Governor Gabriel Slaughter, to open
                    correspondence with the governors of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana on the subject of slaves who escaped and were assisted in their escape by
                    residents of the two states. The resolution asserted that "the difficulty experienced by
                    the citizens of this state in reclaiming their fugitive slaves who may have escaped into those
                    states, owing to the real or supposed obstructions produced by their citizens, is calculated to
                    excite sensations unfavorable to the friendly relations which ought to subsist between neighboring
                    states." The governors of Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     were asked to recommend to their legislatures the adoption of "such municipal
                    regulations in relation to this interesting subject, as may be best calculated to do justice to all
                    concerned, and to promote and increase the amity now existing between this and those
                    states."
            In his 1817 message to the Indiana legislature, Governor Jennings noted that there was excitement in 
                        Kentucky
                     about slaves escaping into Indiana. He urged legislation to expedite settling such
                    cases by enabling the judges of the circuit courts or Supreme Court to summon juries to hear such
                    cases even when the courts were not in regular session. In response to this request the portion of
                    the law of 1816 dealing with the rendition of fugitives was amended to provide that a special
                    session of the circuit court should be summoned and a special jury called to try cases of this sort
                    within three days after the arrest of the fugitive.13
            
            In the meantime in at least two cases residents of 
                        Kentucky
                     were accused of violating the provisions of the 1816 law which dealt with manstealing.
                    In 1818 an agent was sent to 
                        Kentucky
                     to demand the rendition of certain persons who had been indicted by the grand jury of 
                        Clark County
                     on charges of kidnaping, but no answer was received from the 
                  
                     13
                            Acts of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 25 General Assembly, 1 Sess., 1816-1817, p. 282; Logan Esarey (ed.)
                                Messages and Letters of William Henry Harrison (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922), III, 42. This is volume VII of the Indiana Historical Collections; Laws of Indiana, 3 Sess., 1819, p. 65.
               
                    
                    
                        Kentucky
                     authorities in response to this request. The case of Robert Stephens, for whom a
                    warrant of extradition was issued in November, 1819, has already been mentioned. When the governor
                    of 
                        Kentucky
                     received the warrant for Stephens he refused the request. In a letter to Jennings he
                    explained the reasons for his refusal in rather ambiguous terms, apparently on the grounds that the
                    case did not come within the scope of the federal law on fugitives from justice. He also objected
                    that the documents which Indiana submitted were defective and that there had been too long a delay
                    between the indictment of Stephens and the request for extradition. He concluded: "The
                    demand which your excellency has made, not being brought within the provisions of the constitution
                    and laws which point out my duty in such applications, I must decline interfering. Had the case been
                    one within the provisions of the law, I should without hesitation have complied with your
                        request."14
            
            In reply Jennings pointed out that laws of Indiana prescribed punishment for persons who harbored
                    fugitive slaves or prevented their owners from reclaiming them and asserted: "It has been
                    the policy of this state, and certainly has been mine, to provide as far as the principles of the
                    constitution of our state would permit, in addition to the constitution and laws of the 
                        United States
                    , to facilitate the reclamation of fugitives from labor… ." In
                    return for the manner in which Indiana had discharged its obligations to other states on this
                    subject, Jennings stated, it was expected that the authorities of other states would assist in
                    bringing to trial persons who had violated the penal laws of Indiana and then fled. Jennings
                    reiterated that in this matter he was acting in accordance with the act of Congress.
            Governor Slaughter again replied that the documents submitted in the case of Stephens were
                    insufficient and that they did not comply with the requirements of the act of Congress. In spite of
                    these repeated rebuffs Jennings wrote again. He enclosed new documents which were supposed to meet
                    the technical objections which Slaughter had made to the previous ones. In this letter he remarked:
                    "An object no 
                  
                     14 Dorothy Riker (ed.), Executive Proceedings of the
                                State of Indiana, 1816-1836 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1947), 74. This is volume XXIX of the Indiana Historical Collections; Esarey, Messages and Papers of Jennings, Boon and
                                Hendricks, III, 98, 100.
               
                     less than the punishment and prevention of crimes seems to have
                    given rise to the provisions of the Federal Constitution, and the laws to enforce them, on the
                    subject of bringing to trial persons charged with offences in one state and having fled to another.
                    Yet their well meant provisions will not only fall short of their object, but will themselves prove
                    sources of discord and dissension, unless they are observed in good faith by the respective parties
                    concerned in their execution."15
            
            While the governors carried on this acrimonious correspondence, the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature had amended their state law with regard to fugitives from justice so as to
                    cover the case of Stephens or any similar case that might arise—that is, cases in which a
                    Kentuckian was indicted under the laws of another state for carrying off a Negro whom he claimed to
                    be his runaway slave. The amendment provided that in such cases, when the governor of the
                    "other" state demanded extradition, the governor of 
                        Kentucky
                     should issue a warrant to the sheriff of the county where the indicted man lived and
                    have him brought before a circuit judge. Should this 
                        Kentucky
                     judge be of the opinion that the accused person was actually the owner of the slave, or
                    had acted as the owner's agent, the person was to be discharged out of custody. But if the
                    judge was of the opinion that the accused was not the slave's owner, or the
                    owner's agent, then the person was to be sent back into custody again, "to be
                    dealt with according to the laws now in force on that subject [kidnaping]."16 By thus ignoring the Constitution and laws of the 
                        United States
                     and arrogating to her officials the power to determine the guilt or innocence of
                    persons indicted under the laws of another state, 
                        Kentucky
                     sought to solve this particular problem in interstate relations.
            Meanwhile, Jennings had submitted the correspondence with the governor of 
                        Kentucky
                     and the documents relating to the Stephens case to the Indiana legislature at its
                    1819-1820 session. From the correspondence it would appear that Slaughter rested his refusal chiefly
                    on the grounds that the request of Indiana for the rendition of Stephens did not comply with the act
                    of Congress on fugitives from justice as well as the 
                  
                     15 Esarey, Messages and Papers of Jennings, Boon and
                                Hendricks, III, 101-104, 108.
                  
                     16
                            Acts of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 28 General Assembly, 1 Sess., 1819-1820, pp. 856-858. (Act approved
                            January 27, 1820.)
               
                     fact that the documents submitted were defective. However, from
                    a resolution of a committee of the Indiana house of representatives to which the matter was
                    referred, it appears that the committee thought his objections were based on the assumption that the
                    Indiana law on manstealing was unconstitutional. The resolution defended the right of Indiana to
                    enact the law. It declared that although the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                     provided that persons held to labor were not freed by escape into another state, there
                    was nothing in the Constitution to suggest that the right to legislate on the subject of fugitive
                    slaves was granted exclusively to Congress. The clause in the Constitution merely prohibited one
                    state from emancipating the slaves of another state. "But though an unfortunate race of
                    human beings are recognized as property in several of the states, and though their fleeing from
                    service does not dissolve their obligation to serve, yet as slavery is unknown in our Constitution,
                    the natural presumption is, that every individual within the limits of Indiana is free, and must be
                    deemed as such until the contrary is proved. Hence the propriety of the law that requires the
                    individual claimed as a fugitive from service, to be proved to be such, prior to his removal from
                    this state." For Indiana to surrender the right claimed by this law, as 
                        Kentucky
                     seemed to demand, would mean the loss of an essential prerogative of sovereignty.17
            
            At the next session of the Indiana legislature a lengthy report of the judiciary committee of the
                    house analyzed the Indiana law of 1816 in relation to the Constitution and laws of the 
                        United States
                     and by implication criticized the actions of 
                        Kentucky
                    . Again the assertion that Congress had exclusive power to regulate the manner of
                    reclaiming fugitive slaves was denied. The report pointed out that the federal law fixed no penalty
                    for abuses arising under it. It added that, although the courts of 
                        Kentucky
                     might grant redress to persons illegally seized and taken there, those courts could not
                    punish crimes committed in another state. "Nor can it be admitted for a moment that those
                    states alone where slavery is tolerated are to try the right of freedom where it is disputed, and to
                    prohibit and punish manstealing. … As therefore, Congress have not provided that abuses
                    under the law [of 1793] should be 
                  
                     17
                            Indiana House Journal, 1819-1820, pp. 360-362.
               
                     punished … it became both the right and duty of our
                    state to pass some law on the subject. And though our statute may not please the unfortunate
                    slaveholder in every respect; yet, so far is it from discharging from service and labor, that it
                    provides that state officers shall aid the restoration of fugitives from labor to the claimant; that
                    as speedy a decision should be had as in questions of far less consequence than that of freedom; and
                    that a penalty should be imposed upon those who, unauthorized either by the laws of the 
                        United States
                     or of this state, commit violence on others, who, by our constitution, are presumed to
                    be free."
            The committee report added further that if sister states persisted in disregarding the provisions of
                    the 
                        United States
                     Constitution for the rendition of fugitives from justice, then "indeed, we may
                    predict a speedy dissolution of those bonds, under which we have hitherto acted as members of one
                    family." Furthermore: "If any of the laws of Indiana are unconstitutional, and if
                    any persons indicted in our courts are innocent, ought it not to appear from some other authority
                    than the legislature of 
                        Kentucky
                    , which, by its own constitution, is prohibited from exercising judiciary
                    powers." In conclusion the report requested that the governor communicate with the
                    President of the 
                        United States
                     or Congress on the subject of the proceedings on the demand for the rendition of Robert
                    Stephens and "enter into such negotiations on the subject as he may deem most for the
                    honour of our state."18
            
            Accordingly, Governor Jennings forwarded to John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams, secretary of state, the correspondence with the governor of 
                        Kentucky
                     on the subject of this case of fugitives from justice, requesting that it be laid
                    before President James Monroe. A letter was received from Adams stating that the papers had been
                    turned over to the President. There the matter ended, apparently, for no evidence exists that Monroe
                    replied or took any steps to settle this interstate dispute.
            
               
                        Kentucky
                    , then, appears to have been the victor in this round over rendition of fugitives from
                    justice. The case against Robert Stephens in the 
                        Harrison County
                     court was finally dismissed in June, 1823.19
            
            
               
                  18
                        Indiana House Journal, 1820-1821, pp. 307-310.
               
                  19 Esarey, Messages and Papers of Jennings, Boon and
                            Hendricks, III, 223, 455-456; Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton
                        Papers, I, 146 n.
            
            
            While denying the right of Indiana to try citizens of 
                        Kentucky
                     accused of kidnaping free Negroes, the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature continued to urge Indiana to modify its laws so as to better protect the
                    rights of slaveholders. In a resolution adopted at its 1821-1822 session, the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature requested that the governor of 
                        Kentucky
                     correspond with the governors of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , and through them with the legislatures of those states, to ask for the appointment of
                    one or two commissioners from each state, to meet such commissioners to be appointed from 
                        Kentucky
                    . The commissioners were to bring with them copies of all laws in force in their states
                    relating to free people of color, slaves, and slaveholders. The purpose of such consulting together
                    would be that the commissioners would mutually agree upon and recommend laws on those subjects
                    applicable to the condition of the different states which would "best conduce to the
                    private rights of citizens, and to that peace and harmony which it is so eminently the interest and
                    duty of these states to preserve toward each other."
            In his message to the Indiana legislature in December, 1822, Lieutenant Governor Ratliff Boon
                    mentioned a communication from the governor of 
                        Kentucky
                     soliciting the appointment of such a commission. The senate passed a resolution to
                    appoint the commissioners; but the house insisted upon amending the resolution to state that it was
                    inexpedient to authorize a commission and that, instead, the governor should be authorized to
                    correspond with the governor of 
                        Kentucky
                     on the subject of differences between the two states. Inasmuch as the senate failed to
                    concur in the house amendment no action was taken.20
            
            The enactment of the controversial Manstealing Act of 1816 had shown that Indiana's
                    lawmakers were genuinely concerned about the protection of the rights of the free Negro residents of
                    Indiana. In the long dispute with 
                        Kentucky
                     over extradition, the Indiana governor and legislature had vigorously defended
                    Indiana's right to provide a jury trial for persons claimed as fugitive slaves and its
                    right to punish persons who were guilty of kidnaping free Negroes. In 1824, however, the legislature
                    retreated somewhat from the position 
                  
                     20
                            Acts of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 30 General Assembly, 1821-1822, pp. 470-471; Indiana
                                House Journal, 1822-1823, pp. 14, 312; Indiana
                                Senate Journal, 1822-1823, p. 257.
               
                     it had taken in earlier sessions. The law on fugitives from
                    labor which was incorporated into the general revision of the laws adopted that year appears to have
                    been due in part to the protests from 
                        Kentucky
                    . It made pronounced concessions to the demands of the slaveholders. It also appears to
                    have reflected the legal opinion of Judge Benjamin Parke, who had written the decision in the case
                    of Susan and Chasteen discussed above and under whose supervision the revision of the laws was
                        made.21
            
            The 1824 law changed the procedure for retaking fugitives from labor. It permitted the claimant,
                    after securing a warrant from the clerk of any circuit court in the state, to make an arrest,
                    possession of the warrant giving sufficient authority to make the arrest. The alleged fugitive from
                    labor was then to be taken before a justice of the peace or judge of the circuit or supreme courts
                    and placed in custody. Within sixty days after the arrest a trial was to be held, at which it was
                    the duty of the justice of the peace or judge "to hear and determine the case in a summary
                    way." If the judge decided in favor of the claimant he was to issue a certificate
                    authorizing the removal of the fugitive from the state. Either party to the case might appeal this
                    decision; but the appellant was required to pay the cost of the first trial and give security for
                    the cost of the appeal. If an appeal was made the fugitive was also required to give security for
                    his appearance or be jailed pending the final decision. A jury was summoned within five days to try
                    the case when an appeal was granted; but if either party was unprepared for the trial the judge
                    might continue the case until the next term of the court.22
            
            It is apparent that the procedure prescribed by the 1824 law conformed more nearly to that of the
                    federal law of 1793 than did that provided in the law of 1816 and that it was less favorable to the
                    alleged fugitive than the 1816 law.
            In the section of the 1824 revision of the laws which dealt with crimes and punishments, penalties
                    were provided for kidnaping. A fine of from $100.00 to $5,000.00 and
                    imprisonment of from one to fourteen years were imposed on persons who forcibly took or arrested any
                    man, woman, or child "without 
                  
                     21 Leslie, "The Constitutional Significance of
                            Indiana's Statute of 1824," Journal of Southern History,
                            XIII, 340.
                  
                     22
                            Revised Laws of Indiana, 8 Sess., 1824, pp. 221-222.
               
                     establishing a claim according to the laws of this state, or of
                    the 
                        United States
                    ." Persons who gave false certificates of emancipation, or who knowingly
                    harbored or employed a slave or obstructed the recapture of a fugitive, were liable for fines not
                    exceeding $500.00 and for damages to the party injured. Subsequent revisions of the laws
                    retained the provisions of the 1824 law concerning the taking of fugitive slaves as well as the
                    provisions regarding kidnaping and the harboring of slaves.23
            
            There was no serious attempt to change the legislation on fugitive slaves until 1837, when 
                        Kentucky
                     again appealed for a revision of the Indiana law. The 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature, in a resolution adopted February 3, 1837, complained that many citizens of 
                        Kentucky
                     had sustained losses from the escape of slaves to 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , whence the slaves had been helped to go on to 
                        Canada
                    , where they could not be reclaimed. The resolution also stated that slaves passing up
                    and down the 
                        Ohio
                     River in the service of their masters were sometimes lured away and concealed when they
                    touched at the ports of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    . The legislators expressed their belief that "the citizens of those states are
                    comparatively few, by whose artifice, crude, ill digested and fanatic notions of civil rights, the
                    injuries refered to are inflicted." Nevertheless, since the continuance of these practices
                    might have the effect of producing upon the minds of the people of 
                        Kentucky
                     "an excitement unfavorable to the amity and friendly intercourse which now so
                    happily subsists … between coterminous republics," the legislature asked the
                    sister "republics" to enact laws inflicting penalties in order to restrain their
                    citizens from conduct "so injurious to the proprietors of that species of property, and so
                    exasperating in its effects upon the minds and feelings of the people of the slave-holding
                    States." The 
                        Kentucky
                     lawmakers refrained from making any specific suggestions as to the type of legislation
                    required but expressed confidence that the suggestions would lead to appropriate action.24
            
            Governor Noah Noble laid the resolution before the next session of the Indiana legislature with the
                    suggestion that it 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 142-143; Revised Laws of Indiana, 15 Sess., 1831,
                            pp. 183, 277-278; Revised Statutes of Indiana, 27 Sess., 1843, pp. 962,
                            984, 1032-1034.
                  
                     24
                            Acts of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , December Sess., 1836, pp. 353-354.
               
                     be given consideration. The Indiana governor admitted, however,
                    that he could suggest no more efficient means of redress than that already contained in the laws of
                    the state, since those laws had been framed for the express purpose of aiding slaveholders in the
                    recovery of their property. He declared: "Upon all questions connected with the institution
                    of slavery, the citizens of this State have been exempt from excitement. Ever mindful of the duties
                    which devolve upon her as a member of the great family of American States … the State of
                    Indiana has religiously abstained in her principles and her policy from every act that could be
                    construed into a disposition to tamper with or disregard the domestic institutions of her sister
                    States. By a reference to our laws on the subject it will be seen that they have been shaped with a
                    view to protect the interests and rights of the citizens of those States where slavery has been
                    established, and to furnish all just facilities for the reclamation of that species of
                    property."
            A bill on the subject of fugitives from labor was introduced in the senate and passed both that body
                    and the house of representatives; but it was not signed by the governor and so did not become a law.
                    The reasons for the governor's action are not apparent.25
            
            Although Indiana failed to change her laws on the subject of fugitive slaves, relations with 
                        Kentucky
                     in this period were cordial. In 1839 the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature passed another resolution asking that two commissioners be sent to 
                        Ohio
                     to ask the legislature of that state to take action "to prevent evil disposed
                    persons, residing within the jurisdictional limits of 
                        Ohio
                    , from enticing away the slaves of citizens of 
                        Kentucky
                    ." That no mention was made of citizens of Indiana may indicate that the
                    Indiana laws were operating to the satisfaction of Kentuckians.
            At almost the same time that the last-mentioned resolution was adopted in 
                        Kentucky
                    , the Indiana legislature passed a general resolution on the subject of slavery which
                    was heartening to Kentuckians. In language reminiscent of the famous resolutions which John C.
                    Calhoun had offered in the Congress of the 
                        United States
                     in 1837, the Indiana legislators 
                  
                     25
                            Indiana House Journal, 1837-1838, pp. 23-24, 543, 687; Indiana Senate Journal, 1837-1838, p. 574. The account in the journals does not
                            reveal the provisions of the proposed law, and the original bill is not in the state
                            archives.
               
                     declared: "That any interference in the domestic
                    institutions of the slaveholding states of this Union, (without their consent) either by Congress or
                    the state legislatures, is contrary to the compact by which those states became members of the
                    Union.
            
               "Resolved, That any such interference is highly reprehensible,
                    unpatriotic, and injurious to the peace and stability of the union of the states."
            In response the 
                        Kentucky
                     legislature adopted a resolution which declared that the legislature of Indiana,
                    "regardful of the rights of her sister States of the South," had taken an action
                    which called forth "the most decided and unqualified approbation of this
                    Legislature," and which was "such as might have been expected from our
                    enlightened, liberal, and patriotic, sister State."26
            
            It is evident that the policy of the Indiana legislature with regard to the subject of fugitive
                    slaves had undergone a marked change since 1816. Beginning with the law of 1824, the actions of the
                    legislature seem to have been influenced by a desire to placate a neighboring slave state. They
                    reflect more the desire to preserve friendly relations with the South than interest in protecting
                    the rights of persons claimed as fugitive slaves. Although a militant anti-slavery movement was
                    developing in Indiana in the 1830's, it was as yet politically unimportant and did not
                    influence actions of the legislature.
            While the Indiana lawmakers were thus retreating from the defense of the rights of persons claimed as
                    fugitives which had marked their actions in the early days of statehood, other northern states had
                    been following a different course. Several states had adopted "personal liberty"
                    laws dealing with the subject of kidnaping and claiming fugitive slaves. These laws guaranteed jury
                    trial and in other ways were at variance with the procedure set forth in the federal statute of
                    1793.
            In 1842 the issue of the constitutionality of state laws of this sort came before the Supreme Court
                    of the 
                        United States
                     in the case of Prigg v. 
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                        .
               27 The Court held unconstitutional 
                  
                     26
                            Acts of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , December Sess., 1838, p. 390; Laws of Indiana, 23
                            Sess., 1839, p. 353; Acts of 
                                Kentucky
                            , December Sess., 1838, pp. 390-391.
                  
                     27
                            Prigg v. 
                                
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                            , 41 U. S. Reports 539-674 (1842).
               
                     and void the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     law on which the indictment of the defendant, Edward Prigg, was founded, and held that
                    the power to legislate on the subject of the seizure and return of fugitive slaves belonged
                    exclusively to the Congress of the 
                        United States
                    . It was held by the Court that the legislation of Congress, if constitutional, must
                    supersede all state legislation, on the same subject, and, by necessary implication, prohibit it. At
                    the same time the Court asserted that the states could not be compelled to enforce the provisions of
                    the Constitution regarding fugitives, since this was a function of the federal government, adding
                    that "it might well be deemed an unconstitutional exercise of the power of interpretation,
                    to insist that the states are bound to provide means to carry into effect the duties of the national
                    government, nowhere delegated or intrusted to them by the Constitution." At the same time,
                    however, the Court said that "state magistrates may, if they choose, exercise that
                    authority [to aid in the taking of fugitives] unless prohibited by state legislation."28
            
            The decision in the Prigg case seemed to mean that the Indiana legislation on the subject of fugitive
                    slaves was unconstitutional. A report of a committee of the house of representatives of the state of
                    Indiana in 1846 asserted that it was doubtful whether the Indiana state legislature had any power to
                    legislate on the subject of fugitives from labor, either for or against the master or slave, because
                    since 1793 Congress had exercised the power to legislate on the subject. The committee chairman
                    stated that where there is but one subject matter of legislation, the concurrent power of the states
                    is wholly suspended by the action of the federal power.29
            
            Nevertheless, efforts to enforce the state legislation continued. One such attempt occurred in 
                        Elkhart
                     County in connection with an effort to capture a Negro claimed as a runaway slave. When
                    the claimants attempted to arrest the Negro under the authority of a warrant issued by a justice of
                    the peace and take him before a magistrate, a riot occurred. 
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 616, 622.
                  
                     29
                            Indiana House Journal, 1846-1847, pp. 613-614. In 1846 a petition was
                            prepared by the Yearly Meeting of the Anti-Slavery Friends, asking the legislature to enact
                            a law which would prohibit the use of state jails for holding fugitive slaves and which
                            would inflict penalties on state officers who aided in the recapture of fugitives. Minutes
                            of Indiana Yearly Meeting of Anti-Slavery Friends (Manuscript in Earlham College Library),
                            200.
               
                     The claimants were arrested and indicted for their part in the
                    riot; upon trial, they were found guilty. At the trial, the judge of the circuit court, in his
                    instructions to the jury, stated that the only question for consideration was as to the legality of
                    the arrest of the Negro; that the warrant under which the defendants acted, being issued by a
                    justice of the peace, was wholly void and afforded them no protection whatever; and that they had no
                    right to proceed without such warrant as is provided for by the statute of the state. He asserted
                    that the Indiana law was not in contravention of either the Constitution or laws of the 
                        United States
                    . The Indiana Supreme Court, however, did not sustain this position and reversed the
                    judgment of the circuit court, holding that the instructions to the jury were at variance with the
                    doctrines established by the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court in Prigg v. 
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                        .
               30
            
            In another case the Indiana Supreme Court found unconstitutional the provision in Indiana law which
                    penalized the harboring of fugitive slaves. In this case a slave woman and her children had escaped
                    from 
                        Kentucky
                     and reached the vicinity of 
                        Clarksburg
                     in Decatur County, Indiana, where there was a Negro settlement and nearby a community
                    of white persons who were strongly opposed to slavery. Luther Donnell, one of the whites, assisted
                    some of the Negroes in concealing the fugitives and starting them on their way to 
                        Canada
                    . For this Donnell was indicted, under the Indiana law, charged with inducing a slave to
                    escape and secreting her. He was convicted in the circuit court; but the Indiana Supreme Court
                    reversed this decision, holding that the provisions of the state law were unconstitutional according
                    to the decision in the Prigg case.31
            
            Although the Prigg case invalidated state laws designed to protect persons claimed as fugitive slaves
                    and thereby caused some consternation in anti-slavery circles, members of the latter groups were
                    able to derive some comfort from that part of the opinion which said that state officers could not
                    be compelled to enforce the federal law relative to fugitives. This led several legislatures in the
                    northern states to 
                  
                     30
                            Graves et al v. the State, 1 Indiana
                                Reports, 368-373 (1849).
                  
                     31 Decatur County's Part in the Underground Railway (Typed
                            Manuscript in Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Donnell v. the State, 3 Indiana Reports, 480 (1852).
               
                     pass laws which by prohibiting state officers from assisting in
                    the enforcement of the federal law had the effect of obstructing its execution. The first such state
                    law had been passed in 1840, in 
                        Vermont
                    , prior to the Prigg case. Under it, state magistrates were forbidden to take cognizance
                    of any certificate in any case arising under the federal law. The 
                        Vermont
                     law also prohibited, under penalty of fine or imprisonment, any officer or citizen from
                    seizing, arresting, or detaining any person claimed as a fugitive slave. After the decision in the
                    Prigg case other northern states passed similar laws, prohibiting state officers from taking part in
                    the enforcement of the federal law of 1793 and barring the use of state jails for the detention of
                    fugitive slaves. Indiana, however, did not follow these examples. Instead the Indiana revised laws
                    of 1852 expressly provided: "Any county jail may be used for the safe keeping of any
                    fugitive from justice or labor, in this State, in accordance with the provisions of any act of
                        Congress."32
            
            Personal liberty laws such as the 
                        Vermont
                     law had the effect of virtually nullifying the federal law of 1793, which relied for
                    its enforcement principally on state magistrates. There were not enough federal judges to enforce
                    the act. This state of' affairs, plus the fact that some anti-slavery groups in the North
                    were systematically aiding slaves to escape to 
                        Canada
                     via the underground railroad, caused louder demands from the South for more effective
                    federal legislation for the recapture of runaway slaves. The result was the Fugitive Slave Law of
                    1850, which was incorporated into the series of Congressional measures known as the Compromise of
                    1850. The new measure, which was in the form of amendment to the act of 1793, created federal
                    commissioners to enforce the act. The commissioners were to be appointed by federal judges and to
                    have concurrent jurisdiction with them in hearing fugitive slave cases. In determining such cases, a
                    commissioner was expressly prohibited from admitting the testimony of the alleged fugitive. If, from
                    the evidence presented to him, he decided in favor of the claimant, he was to issue a certificate
                    authorizing the removal of the fugitive 
                  
                     32 Homer C. Hockett, The Constitutional History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1939), II, 190; Revised Laws of Indiana, 1852, I,
                        347.
               
                     to the state from which he escaped. Further, any person
                    knowingly hindering the arrest of a fugitive from service or labor, or attempting to rescue one from
                    custody, or aiding to escape, or harboring such a fugitive, was to be fined and imprisoned. If the
                    claimant had reason to fear that there might be an attempt at a forcible rescue it was the duty of
                    the officer making the arrest to return the slave to the state from which he had fled; the officer
                    was to employ such aid as might be necessary, the compensation and expenses to be paid out of the
                    treasury of the 
                        United States
                    . Private citizens could be compelled to render assistance in the capture of
                        fugitives.33
            
            Indiana's delegation in Congress divided over the measure. The two 
                        United States
                     senators were in favor of the law (although circumstances prevented their voting for
                    it), while the delegation in the House of Representatives was split, six of the ten voting in favor
                    of it, four against.34
            
            Among the people of Indiana reaction to the law was mixed. The more extreme anti-slavery groups were
                    bitter in their condemnation. The following resolution passed by an abolition convention at
                    Centreville in Wayne County was typical: "Resolved, That the blood hound
                    fugitive slave bill recently enacted by Congress, outrages humanity, violates the plainest
                    provisions of the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    , and is without parallel in the legislation of any civilized people." A
                    meeting in Fayette County declared: "We will not assist (if called upon) in capturing or
                    securing a fugitive slave under this act, though the penalty for refusing should deprive us of all
                    our possessions, and incarcerate us between dungeon walls."35
            
            The expressions of these extremists were not, however, representative of the feelings of the majority
                    of the people of Indiana. Although some provisions of the act might be offensive, most people of the
                    state appear to have acquiesced in them as a means of preserving national unity. The Indiana State Journal asked that agitation cease and that the law be given a fair trial.
                    "If it only secures the object of the 
                  
                     33
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, IX, 462-465.
                  
                     34 Charles H. Money, "Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XVII (1921), 167-168.
                  
                     35
                            Indiana State Sentinel (Semiweekly), November 12, 1850; ibid., November 19, 1850.
               
                     Constitution, without unjust requirements at the hands of the
                    people of the free States, then let it remain as it is."36
            
            In his first message to the legislature after the passage of the law, Governor Joseph Wright urged
                    that all of the compromise measures be carried out in good faith and deplored the ultraism and
                    fanaticism which had been manifested by both sides on the debates preceding the compromise.
                    "Above all," he said, "Indiana recognizes the imperative duty, by every
                    good citizen, of obedience to the laws of the land." He added: "Indiana takes her
                    stand in the ranks, not of Southern destiny, nor yet of NORTHERN DESTINY. She
                    plants herself on the basis of the Constitution; and takes her stand in the ranks of AMERICAN
                        DESTINY."37
            
            In the middle fifties, after the slavery controversy had once more been intensified as the result of
                    the 
                        Kansas
                     question, northern states began to enact a new series of personal liberty laws,
                    designed to impede the enforcement of the hated Fugitive Slave Law of 1850. Typical of these was the 
                        Massachusetts
                     law of 1855. It guaranteed the writ of habeas corpus to every person imprisoned or
                    restrained of his liberty; it provided that the state should furnish legal counsel for persons
                    claimed as fugitive slaves and guaranteed a trial by jury to such persons; and it placed the burden
                    of proof on the claimant. The use of state jails for the detention of fugitives and of persons
                    arrested for helping fugitives to escape was prohibited. Similar laws were adopted in all the New 
                        England
                     states and in 
                  Ohio, Michigan
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Attempts to nullify the federal law, these laws were clearly in conflict with the
                    principles set forth in the Prigg case.38
            
            Attempts to enforce the law of 1850 led to a number of conflicts between state and federal
                    authorities. The most notorious case arose in 
                        Wisconsin
                     where Sherman M. Booth was indicted for violating the federal fugitive slave law by
                    aiding the escape of a fugitive slave but was discharged from the custody of a 
                        United States
                     marshal, Stephen V. R. Ableman, on a writ of habeas corpus issued by a justice of the
                    state supreme court. Booth was later convicted in a federal court 
                  
                     36
                            Indiana State Journal, May 10, 1851.
                  
                     37
                            Indiana House Journal, 1850-1851, pp. 40-42.
                  
                     38
                            
                        
                                    Massachusetts
                                 Acts and Resolves, 1855, pp. 924-929; Joel Parker, Personal Liberty Laws (
                                Boston
                            , 1861), Passim.
                  
               
                     but was again released on a writ issued by the state court.
                    Ultimately his case reached the Supreme Court of the 
                        United States
                    . Chief Justice Roger B. Taney delivered the opinion of the Court, which upheld the
                    supremacy of the federal law and the federal judiciary over state courts, in an opinion which was to
                    be regarded as a masterpiece and quoted time and again by his colleagues and successors.39
            
            Legislation of the sort passed in 
                        Massachusetts
                     and defiance of federal authority like that which occurred in 
                        Wisconsin
                     had no counterparts in Indiana. The Indiana legislature enacted no legislation in
                    contravention to the federal law on fugitive slaves; and Indiana courts made no attempt to question
                    the authority and supremacy of the federal law and federal courts. Nevertheless, issues arising out
                    of cases begun under the federal fugitive slave law were in some cases taken to state courts. One
                    such instance grew out of the attempts of a 
                        Missouri
                     slaveholder to claim as his escaped slave a Negro resident of 
                        Indianapolis
                     named William Freeman. The case, the most famous ever brought under the 1850 law in
                    Indiana, was heard by a 
                        United States
                     commissioner. A group of able lawyers came to Freeman's defense and were able
                    to prove that he was in reality a free Negro and that the slave the claimant sought had escaped to 
                        Canada
                    .40
            
            The cost of the trial exhausted Freeman's savings as well as causing him discomfort and
                    humiliation. Accordingly he instituted a damage suit for $10,000.00 against the claimant
                    in the Marion County Circuit Court. During the course of the trial, counsel for the defendant agreed
                    that a verdict of $2,000.00 should be awarded to Freeman. This legal victory was in
                    reality meaningless, however, since the defendant disposed of his property and moved away from his
                    residence in 
                        St. Louis
                    , thereby making it impossible to collect the award.41
            
            Freeman also brought suit in the same court against John L. Robinson, the 
                        United States
                     marshal who had arrested and held him. He charged the officer with assault and battery
                    and with extortion for compelling him to pay three dollars a 
                  
                     39
                            A bleman v. Booth and 
                                
                                    United States
                                
                             v. Booth, 21 U. S. Reports, 506-526 (1858).
                  
                     40 A detailed account of the case is given in Money,
                            "Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XVII, 180-198.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 194-196.
               
                     day for sixty days. The circuit court gave final judgment in
                    this case to Robinson. Freeman appealed to the Indiana Supreme Court. Robinson admitted that he had
                    committed the acts of which Freeman complained, but insisted that in doing them he was acting in the
                    official character of 
                        United States
                     marshal, and hence that the state court did not have jurisdiction over the subject
                    matter of the action. Nevertheless, the Indiana Supreme Court held that the state court had
                    jurisdiction over the action. It declared that assault and battery and extortion of money were no
                    part of the marshal's official duties under the fugitive slave law or any other act, and
                    were unlawful. While admitting the exclusive right of Congress to legislate on the subject of
                    fugitive slaves, it added: "We perceive no conflict between any provision of the fugitive
                    slave law, and the common law right to maintain an action for personal injury."42
            
            In 1857 another case arose in which a group of antislavery lawyers tried to use state laws and the
                    state courts to thwart the recapture of a boy claimed as a fugitive slave under the federal law. The
                    boy, who was called West, had escaped from 
                        Kentucky
                     some four years previously and had been captured in 
                        Illinois
                    , apparently without a warrant or certificate for his removal. When the captors reached 
                        Indianapolis
                     with the boy a writ of habeas corpus was served on them just as they were ready to
                    board the train for 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . The writ had been secured by three lawyers, at the instigation of some Negro residents
                    of the city who had learned of the boy's plight. The fugitive was taken before the judge of
                    the court of common pleas, who ordered him discharged under the sixth section of the federal
                    fugitive slave law.43 The discharge had been anticipated by the claimant, who
                    had the boy immediately re-arrested by a deputy 
                  
                     42
                            Freeman v. Robinson, 7 Indiana
                            Reports, 321-324 (1855).
                  
                     43
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, November 26, 1857. The Indiana law on the issuance of writs
                            of habeas corpus provided: "Every person restrained of his liberty, under any
                            pretence whatever, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus to inquire into
                            the cause of the restraint, and shall be delivered therefrom when illegal." Indiana Revised Statutes, 36 Sess., 1852, II, 194. The grounds on which
                            the judge discharged the boy are not entirely clear from the report. The sixth section of
                            the 1850 law prescribed the method of retaking a fugitive from labor. It provided that
                            fugitives could be reclaimed by securing a warrant from a state magistrate or could be
                            arrested without a warrant and taken before a 
                                United States
                             Commissioner. Since the claimant had followed neither of these courses the
                            judge apparently decided that he held the boy illegally.
               
                    
                    
                        United States
                     marshal and taken before a 
                        United States
                     commissioner under the authority of the federal law. The lawyers defending West
                    included such well-known anti-slavery men as George W. Julian and John Coburn, who used every
                    conceivable stratagem to win the freedom of their client, or at least to delay his return to 
                        Kentucky
                     and to increase the cost of retaking him. Nevertheless, after five days of testimony
                    and argument the commissioner awarded the Negro to the claimant. While the hearing was going on,
                    however, Julian and Coburn had caused the claimant to be charged with violating the law of Indiana
                    against kidnaping. The man was arrested and taken before the judge of the Court of Common Pleas and
                    released on bail. He was never tried, however; the kidnaping charges were dropped after the 
                        United States
                     commissioner made his award.
            The decision of the commissioner did not end the efforts of Julian and Coburn. They next had a writ
                    of habeas corpus served by the county sheriff on the 
                        United States
                     marshal, who had the Negro in his custody, ordering him to bring the Negro into the
                    court of common pleas. In that court the antislavery lawyers submitted a long argument in which they
                    assailed the integrity of the commissioner and insisted that, regardless of the federal law, Indiana
                    had a right to protect herself against kidnapers. Hence, they insisted that the matter should be
                    adjudicated in a state court. The judge, however, upheld the authority of the deputy marshal, who
                    was acting under the authority of a warrant issued by a 
                        United States
                     commissioner. He was reported as declaring that: "A 
                        United States
                     commissioner had concurrent jurdisdiction with a Judge of the 
                        United States
                     Circuit Court. The law made it so, and it was not for him to determine whether the law
                    was right and proper. With that law, and with the Act under which the arrest of West as a fugitive
                    from labor was made, no matter how odious it might be, he had nothing to do except to be governed by
                    it in his official action. If the laws were wrong, appeals should be made to the legislative
                    branches of government. The Courts had to deal with laws as they found them." He held that
                    in this case the authority of the federal government was paramount and denied that he could
                    discharge a person held under the authority of the 
                        United States
                    .44
            
            
               
                  44
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, December 7, 1857. A complete account of the West case is found
                        in ibid., November 26-December 7, 1857, and in the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Sentinel, November 26-December 8, 1857.
            
            
            So the Negro boy was carried back to 
                        Kentucky
                     under the guard of a deputy marshal and a posse of five citizens, and the authority of
                    the federal government was maintained. An editorial in the conservative Indiana State
                        Sentinel assailed George W. Julian and his associates for defending West. It asserted that
                    Julian "knew that every step he was taking from the beginning was in contravention of all
                    law and authority," but that he had persisted "until he morally, at least, put
                    himself in open rebellion against the government." It suggested that he deserved five years
                    in the penitentiary for obstructing the operation of the Fugitive Slave Law.46
            
            The writer of the editorial showed a lack of prescience which was not unusual in men of his vocation.
                    In 1857 he could not know that the time was short in which cases such as this could occur. Within a
                    few years Julian and men of his views would be in the ascendancy, and the Fugitive Slave Law would
                    be merely a matter of historic interest. In the meantime the editorial writer probably expressed the
                    views of the majority of the citizens of Indiana when he voiced satisfaction at the result of the
                    trial of West. "The people of 
                        Kentucky
                    , of the South, and of every portion of the confederacy [sic], North, East and West,
                    know now that the laws, State and Federal, are impartially administered in Indiana."
            The foregoing account shows that the course followed by Indiana officials with regard to the fugitive
                    slave question ran counter in some respects to the pattern set in some of the other northern states.
                    As early as 1810 and 1816, when the anti-slavery movement was in its infancy, Indiana lawmakers
                    attempted to implement the federal fugitive slave law so as to protect free colored persons from
                    kidnaping and illegal enslavement. In a long controversy with 
                        Kentucky
                     the governor and legislature of Indiana insisted that a state had the right to pass
                    such legislation and denied that Congress had exclusive power to legislate on the subject of
                    fugitive slaves. At no time however did they deny the right of slaveholders to recover their
                    property; nor did they deny that the authority of the federal government was paramount to state
                    authority.
            The 1824 law of Indiana marked a turning point. It was a concession to the interests of the
                    slaveholders, designed to 
                  
                     45
                     Ibid., December 7, 1857.
               
                     facilitate the recovery of fugitives. In the words of Governor
                    Noble quoted above, it was framed "with a view to protect the interests and rights of the
                    citizens of those States where slavery has been established, and to furnish all just facilities for
                    the reclamation of that species of property." At the same time it retained some measure of
                    protection for the rights of fugitives beyond the procedure prescribed in the federal law of 1793.
            Both the Supreme Court of Indiana and the legislature acquiesced in the principles of the decision of
                    the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court in the Prigg case, in which it was held that Congress alone could
                    legislate in the matter of fugitive slaves. While other northern states passed personal liberty laws
                    after the Prigg decision, Indiana took no such action; nor did it attempt to nullify or obstruct the
                    enforcement of the act passed by Congress in 1850. After the Indiana law of 1824 was held to be
                    unconstitutional Indiana lawmakers made no further attempt to protect persons claimed as fugitive
                    slaves. In a period when the legislation of many northern states reflected increasingly the demands
                    of anti-slavery groups, Indiana's legislators and courts appear to have ignored these
                    groups and to have adopted a policy which placed the preservation of national unity above the
                    protection of the rights of fugitive slaves or free colored people.
         
         
         
            The Flint Glass Workers' Union in the Indiana Gas Belt and the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley in the 1890's
            Ellsworth Steele∗
            The American glass industry was drifting westward in the decades before 1900. Only a small amount of
                    capital was required to establish a glass factory and the communities of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley, and the Indiana gas belt especially, were making strenuous efforts to attract
                    industries of all kinds. Raw materials were plentiful and the market for glassware was growing.
            In this period, according to Boris Stern, "prior to the introduction of machinery the glass
                    industry was predominantly a small-unit industry. The amount of capital needed for a plant was
                    comparatively negligible, and the principal item of expenditure, outside of labor, was fuel. A
                    cheaper rate on coal or natural gas was enough of an inducement for the removal of a glass plant
                    from one locality to another and from State to State. The history of the discoveries of natural gas
                    in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Indiana, West 
                        Virginia
                    , and 
                        Oklahoma
                     also tells the story of the migration of the glass industry to and from these
                        States."1
            
            The westward movement of the glass industry, and its growth, are clearly revealed in the tables on
                    the following page. The 
                        Pennsylvania
                     data do not show the migration of glass plants which took place from the 
                        Philadelphia
                     area to the 
                        Pittsburgh
                     area. They do record, however, the rapid growth in the number of glass plants and the
                    even greater increase in number of workers and capital invested in the state between 1880 and 1900.
            
               
                  ∗ Ellsworth Steele is research professor in economics, 
                            Alabama
                         Polytechnic Institute.
               
                  1 Boris Stern, "Productivity of Labor in the Glass
                        Industry," Bulletin of the 
                                United States
                             Bureau of Labor Statistics No. 441 (
                            Washington
                        , July, 1927), 18.
            
            
            
               Table 1. Number of Glass Plants in Selected States and the 
                            United States
                         in 1880, 1890, 1900, and 1910.
               
                  Year
                  Indiana
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  West Virginia
                  
                            
                                United States
                            
                        
               
               
                  1880
                  4
                  19
                  77
                  4
                  169
               
               
                  1890
                  21
                  59
                  99
                  7
                  294
               
               
                  1900
                  110
                  28
                  119
                  16
                  355
               
               
                  1910
                  44
                  45
                  112
                  51
                  363
               
               
                  Source: Twelfth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1900, Volume IX, Manufactures, Special Reports on Selected
                            Industries, 952, and Thirteenth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1910, Volume X, Manufactures: Report for Selected Industries,
                        883.
               
            
            
               Table 2. Number of Glass Workers in Selected States and in the 
                            United States
                         in 1880, 1890, 1900, and 1910.
               
                  Year
                  Indiana
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  West Virginia
                  
                            
                                United States
                            
                        
               
               
                  1880
                  862
                  1,688
                  9,784
                  946
                  24,177
               
               
                  1890
                  3,010
                  6,435
                  18,510
                  1,371
                  44,892
               
               
                  1900
                  13,015
                  4,546
                  19,420
                  1,949
                  52,818
               
               
                  1910
                  9,544
                  10,159
                  23,710
                  6,190
                  68,911
               
               
                  Source: Twelfth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1900, Volume IX, Manufactures, Special Reports on Selected
                            Industries, 952, and Thirteenth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1910, Volume X, Manufactures: Report for Selected Industries,
                        883.
               
            
            
               Table 3. Capital-Invested in Glass Plants in Selected States and in the 
                            United States
                        , 1880, 1890, 1900, and 1910.
               
                  Year
                  Indiana
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  West Virginia
                  
                            
                                United States
                            
                        
               
               
                  1880
                  $ 1,442,000
                  $ 1,172,850
                  $ 7,609,706
                  $ 550,522
                  $ 18,804,599
               
               
                  1890
                  3,556,563
                  4,094,677
                  20,459,049
                  825,313
                  40,966,850
               
               
                  1900
                  12,775,389
                  5,451,513
                  28,287,187
                  1,338,084
                  61,423,903
               
               
                  1910
                  13,149,000
                  16,201,000
                  58,632,000
                  7,369,000
                  129,288,000
               
               
                  Source: Twelfth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1900, Volume IX, Manufactures, Special Reports on Selected
                            Industries, 952, and Thirteenth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1910, Volume X, Manufactures: Report for Selected Industries,
                        883.
               
            
            The development of the industry in West 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , although on a smaller scale, was in some respects more spectacular than in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , as the tables show. The West 
                        Virginia
                     story was one of rapid and continuous growth over the period. In 
                        Ohio
                     the industry reached a peak in 1890 from which it had declined greatly by 1900,
                    apparently due to the failure of many of the smaller plants.
            In Indiana the number of glass plants increased fivefold between 1890 and 1900. The number of workers
                    and the amount of capital-invested increased at nearly the same pace.  Then with the failure of the Indiana gas wells, the number of firms and
                    the number of workers in the industry contracted rapidly. Total capital-invested, however, continued
                    to increase slowly, due probably to technological changes and a rising price level.
            These early glass plants fell into three categories. There were flint glass houses which produced
                    from high quality flint glass such things as crystal tableware, lamp globes, thermometers,
                    prescription ware for the drug trade, and glass novelties. A second group produced bottles and jars,
                    and a third made window and plate glass. It is with the flint (or pressed and blown) glass plants
                    and those Indiana bottle houses which made whiskey flasks that this article is concerned.
            The expansion and westward movement of the glass industry presented a challenge to the American Flint
                    Glass Workers' Union which claimed jurisdiction over all skilled glassworkers pressing and
                    blowing flint glass. The AFGWU had been established in 1878 in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . Three years later it had co-operated in the formation of the Federation of Organized
                    Trades and Labor Unions, predecessor of the American Federation of Labor.2 By
                    1890 it had more than 7,000 members. Under the statesmanlike leadership of William J. Smith it had
                    abandoned what Smith termed "stand and deliver" collective bargaining. No longer
                    did AFGWU locals submit their demands to employers with an ultimatum calling for their immediate
                    adoption if a strike was to be avoided. Instead, the union committees met each year in national
                    conferences with employer representatives to negotiate wages and conditions for the following year.
                    The union's various crafts, each highly skilled, made this transition in the period from
                    1887 to 1892.
            The major association of employers with which the AFGWU bargained originated at the Astor House in 
                        New York
                     in 1862 as the Flint and Lime Glass Manufacturers of the East and West. After the Civil
                    War it became the 
                        United States
                     Flint Glass Association and in 1874 the American Association of Flint and Lime Glass
                    Manufacturers. This association of general glassware manufacturers dealt with both commercial and
                    labor problems until 1889, shortly after the 
                  
                     2 Lewis Lorwin and J. A. Flexner, The American Federation
                                of Labor (
                                Washington
                            , 1933), 12.
               
                     national conference system had been established. That year the
                    unionized members of the association took their labor troubles into a new group called the
                    Associated Manufacturers of Pressed Glassware. This organization in 1893 became the National
                    Association of Manufacturers of Pressed and Blown Glassware which still bargains with the AFGWU.3 In the 1890's, the AFGWU also bargained with separate associations
                    representing the flint bottle houses and the lamp chimney factories. In all of these firms,
                    production still required a high degree of skill from the majority of workers.
            The development of the national conference system with these three employer associations was a major
                    step toward a mature collective bargaining relationship. It was also a major factor in enabling the
                    AFGWU to meet the difficult problems of the 1890's successfully. The relationships and
                    principles evolved in this decade contributed substantially to the excellent record of constructive
                    collective bargaining which the pressed and blown glassware industry has established.
            In many of the glass houses of the 1890's management was introducing labor-saving machinery,
                    a development which threatened the jobs of AFGWU members. Annealing lehrs replaced the slower
                    annealing ovens just before 1880. Then during the 1880's use of natural gas swept the
                    industry. Continuous melting tanks, first used in the 
                        United States
                     in 1879-1880, rapidly replaced glass pots until by 1898 they provided 49 per cent of
                    the country's active melting capacity.
            Not less important was a series of glass-forming machines and devices. Among the first was the
                    Arbogast semiautomatic machine developed in 1882 and used in the 1890's on vaseline and
                    Mason jars. The Neville reversible mould and the Ashley bottle machine entered the industry around
                    1894 or 1895. By 1898 Ball Brothers in 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, had semiautomatic machines at work on fruit jars. That year the revolutionary
                    Owens machine invaded the lamp chimney field. Records show only twenty semi-automatic machines in
                    the 
                  
                     3 George Dougherty (former vice president of the NAMPBG) to author,
                            September 3, 1952. For a slightly different version, see Warren C. Scoville,
                            "Growth of the American Glass Industry to 1880," Journal of
                                Political Economy (
                                Chicago
                            , 1892-), LII (1944), 353.
               
                     glass industry in 1897, but this number had increased to eighty
                    by 1900.4
            
            Although these machines displaced craftsmen and were a source of grave concern to AFGWU officials,
                    their impact must be viewed in perspective. Pearce Davis reminds us: "Despite widespread
                    and far-reaching mechanization, the craftsmen specializing in the manufacture of pressed and blown
                    glass products fared better than those in the window-glass and glass container branches of the
                    industry. This condition rested upon the importance in this field of special products, small-lot
                    output, and variation in quality and design. Had it not been for these factors the magnitude of
                    displacement of labor would have been comparable to that which took place in container
                        manufacture."5
            
            These technological improvements were significant also because they gradually erased the
                    jurisdictional line between the AFGWU's prescription ware department and the
                    union's rival in the bottle industry, the United Green Glass Workers Association, known
                    after 1896 as the Glass Bottle Blowers Association. The AFGWU members traditionally had worked high
                    quality flint glass from covered pots, and the GBBA blowers had worked lower quality green glass
                    from uncovered pots. The new continuous tanks produced good quality glass at lower cost and
                    gradually displaced both covered and uncovered pots. Possibly because the higher quality flint glass
                    had been able to bear higher rates, the AFGWU prescription department's wage lists had
                    always been higher than those of the GBBA. As a result of these wage differentials, new orders began
                    to drift toward the GBBA plants which could quote lower prices. Or, as at 
                        Elwood
                    , Indiana, the GBBA moved into plants which formerly recognized the AFGWU.6
            
            The semi-automatic forming machines further complicated the jurisdictional picture. The
                    AFGWU's pressed ware department claimed all pressed work, even bottles pressed and blown by
                    these new machines. The GBBA, in turn, argued 
                  
                     4 T. W. Rowe, Souvenir History of the American Flint
                                Glass Workers' Union (
                                Toledo
                            , 1910), 61, 80; George E. Barnett, Chapters on Machinery and
                            Labor (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1926), 68-69; AFGWU Convention Proceedings (1895), 59. The
                            material for this article has been drawn in large part from union proceedings of the period.
                  
                     5 Pearce Davis, The Development of the American Glass
                                Industry (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1949), 239-40.
                  
                     6
                     AFGWU Proceedings (1893), 48.
               
                     that all bottles, however formed, should fall under its
                    control. As a result, members of both unions operated the machines in some plants, such as the Ball
                    Brothers' factory at 
                        Muncie
                    . Ball Brothers apparently preferred the AFGWU despite the fact that they had dealt with
                    the GBBA for years, because they feared that the GBBA had not really accepted the new machinery.7
            
            Blurring of the jurisdictional line between the AFGWU and the GBBA spurred rivalry between the two
                    organizations. Throughout most of the 1890's the two unions attempted to work out either an
                    outright amalgamation, or at least a compromise solution of their jurisdictional disputes. By the
                    end of the decade, however, rivalry had turned to open warfare.
            Cutthroat competition in the glassware industry was another factor threatening the AFGWU. When the
                    depression of 1893 greatly intensified this competition, the union was placed in a critical
                    situation. It had gathered together the great majority of the skilled workers of the industry.
                    Through its resulting strength, it had forced upon the organized employers a series of restrictive
                    practices which were now placing them at a severe competitive disadvantage.
            The AFGWU had based its program upon a tacit assumption that there was a given "lump of
                    labor" to be done. The union pressed for shorter hours, higher wages, and production
                    restrictions as if the employers' markets were assured—the consumer would buy
                    without regard to price. Now this easy assumption was sharply challenged. The AFGWU eventually was
                    forced to begin its retreat from restrictionism toward a philosophy of high productivity.
            The union's first reaction, however, was to fight back at the forces hemming it in. The
                    union tried the traditional organize and strike tactics and when they failed, turned to weapons
                    employed by the aggressive capitalists of the day. Only reluctantly did the union move toward a more
                    conscious partnership in production with the employers. The measures proposed and those put into
                    effect by the AFGWU and the organized glass houses in order to meet the challenge of the non-union
                    plants form a fascinating pattern of shrewdness, naivety, and resourcefulness. The forces
                    threatening the 
                  
                     7 Barnett, Chapters on Machinery and Labor,
                        75-76.
               
                     AFGWU, the union's maneuvers against the unorganized
                    plants, especially those in the gas belt of Indiana and in the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley, and the results of these efforts provide the material for this article.
            Competition throughout the glass industry was strong, but for the organized employers bound by
                    numerous union restraints, it was severe.8 In the east, the competition of the
                    former union plants in 
                  Rochester, Pennsylvania
               , and 
                  Cumberland, Maryland
               , was the greatest cause of alarm. The manufacturers claimed in 1892
                    that the 
                        Rochester
                     plant had an advantage of 20 to 30 per cent in costs. In the same year the union
                    admitted that three-fourths of the punch tumbler work of the country was done in nonunion houses. A
                    union prescription ware committee, investigating nonunion firms, reported in 1895 that they were
                    working from 40 to 50 per cent below the union wage list. Statements made by President Smith of the
                    AFGWU and Vice-President D. A. Hayes of the GBBA in 1896 indicate that the nation's bottle
                    blowers were then roughly divided, one-third nonunion, one-third GBBA, and one-third AFGWU. Bottle
                    blowers constituted somewhat less than one-third of the AFGWU's membership. Nearly all of
                    the GBBA members, however, were bottle blowers.9
            
            Furthermore, the nonunion houses often operated new machines which the union accepted in its plants
                    only very reluctantly, if it did not oppose them.10 It should be noted, however,
                    that even the nonunion houses suffered from strikes and opposition to technological improvement. The
                        Commoner and Glassworker, prominent labor weekly of the day, reported in 1896
                    that the 
                        Rochester
                     Tumbler Works' employees had struck against a 20 per cent wage cut, but still
                    refused to join the AFGWU.11 And when the same house introduced advanced
                    machinery in 1898, "the men and even the manager 
                  
                     8
                            Commoner and Glassworker, September 9, 1893. This newspaper is now very
                            rare. Files covering the entire period of this story are available only in the Carnegie
                            Library in 
                                Pittsburgh
                            .
                  
                     9
                            AFGWU Proceedings (1892), 43-45, 51; Ibid., (1895),
                            38-42; Ibid. (1896), 37; Barnett, Chapters on Machinery and
                                Labor, 83.
                  
                     10Barnett, Chapters on Machinery and Labor, 73-74;
                                AFGWU Proceedings (1896), 66, 143. In fairness it should be emphasized
                            that the union leaders, especially W. J. Smith, saw the folly of opposing new machines and
                            urged their acceptance and control. See, for example, AFGWU Proceedings
                            (1895), 59-61.
                  
                     11
                            Commoner and Glassworker, September 5, 1896.
               
                     … were said to be against the use of the machinery
                    and were not making any particular effort to fully test its merits."12
            
            Under the pressure of sharp price competition, the firms in the flint glass industry made several
                    attempts in the 1890's to merge competing companies or set up cartels which would limit
                    price cutting.13
            
            The first notable effort produced the 
                        United States
                     Glass Company in 1891.14 This organization brought together a large
                    number of tableware factories in what the union, and at least some rival manufacturers, viewed as an
                    attempt to monopolize the industry. By 1893 the "glass trust" was cooperating with
                    other employers in the American Flint and Lime Glass Manufacturers Association to hold up prices.
                    Four years later the president of the nonunion 
                        Rochester
                     Tumbler Works met with other glassmen, union and nonunion, and expressed his
                    willingness to stand by any price mutually agreed upon. In 1898 the tableware firms began work on a
                    combination to be called the United Glass Manufacturers' Association. Their efforts
                    culminated instead in the formation of the National Glass Company in 1899. This organization was
                    capitalized at $4,000,000.00 and included nineteen plants with approximately one-half of
                    the industry's capacity.
            In the bottle industry the Western Bottle Glass Manufacturers' Beneficial Association was in
                    operation in 1887. At that time its representatives agreed with one glass union (possibly the GBBA,
                    but probably the AFGWU's prescription ware department) to compel factories and workers not
                    yet organized to join their respective organizations.15 Ten years later the
                    National Association of Flint Bottle Manufacturers was formed to draw the entire trade together and
                    establish 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., May 21, 1898.
                  
                     13 The following history of the attempts at merger is based on the AFGWU Proceedings of 1893, 1894, and 1895, and the Commoner
                                and Glassworker, issues of August, 1893, through May, 1899.
                  
                     14
                     Moody's Manual of Investments: Industrial
                                Securities (
                                New York
                            , 1950), 1316.
                  
                     15 George Dougherty, former vice president of the NAMPBG, believes
                            that it was the GBBA. However, he also believes that the National Association of Flint
                            Bottle Manufacturers was an outgrowth of the Western Association. Inasmuch as the AFGWU had
                            jurisdiction over flint glass bottles in those years, I believe that the union involved was
                            probably the AFGWU. Furthermore, the union refers to a "Western Flint Bottle
                            Association" dealing with the prescription department in 1893.
               
                     uniform, and higher, prices. Apparently it was successful for
                    at its December, 1897, meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                     the officers reported that practically all union and nonunion bottle concerns had
                    joined. The association secured options on many flint bottle houses in the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley and in 1898 filed incorporation papers in 
                        New Jersey
                     on a unit reputed to include 90 per cent of the country's production.
            The attempt to bring the lamp chimney firms together was less successful. In March, 1899, options
                    were gathered looking forward to a combine, but by May the effort had been abandoned.
            In no area was the price competition as sharp or the fight between the AFGVVU and the nonunion glass
                    houses as bitter as in the gas belt of Indiana. The glass industry in this state had mushroomed from
                    four houses in 1880 to twenty-one in 1890 and would go to 110 by 1900, as Table 1, page 230, shows.
                    The union recognized the importance of the struggle going on in the area by bringing its annual
                    convention to Marion in 1893 and to 
                        Muncie
                     in 1899.
            The discovery and use of natural gas in Findlay, 
                        Ohio
                    , had stimulated drilling in Indiana. The state's first high-pressure well was
                    brought in near 
                        Portland
                     in 1886. A "natural gas craze" almost immediately swept the state.
                    Between 1886 and 1897, 5,400 live gas wells were drilled. Of these 2,800 had been abandoned by 1897,
                    but 219 companies were still furnishing natural gas to the public.
            The Indiana gas field, the largest possessed by any state, covered from 2,500 to 5,000 square miles,
                    centering around Anderson. Seventeen counties produced gas in paying quantities.16 Of these, the major gas producing counties became known as the gas belt,17 and 
                        Marion
                    , Indiana was named its "Queen City."
            "With the discovery of gas, there was a rush to create 
                  
                     16 W. H. Smith, History of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1897), 676-77; Indiana Writers' Project, Indiana, A
                                Guide to the Hoosier State (
                                New York
                            , 1941), 90; Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana (2 ed., 2
                            vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918), II, 911-12; Julia H. Levering, Historic Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1909), 487. See also, Margaret Wynn, "Natural Gas in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), IV (1908), 31-45.
                  
                     17 Grant, Howard, 
                        Tipton,
                                    Hamilton, Madison, Delaware
                     , and
                            Black ford counties are included in the gas belt both by Esarey, A History of
                                Indiana, II, 912, and by the First Biennial Report of the Bureau of
                                Statistics, Indiana (1885-1886), x-xi. Esarey would add 
                                Hancock
                            , Henry, and Rush counties; the Bureau, Jay and 
                                Randolph
                             counties.
               
                     new towns and to bring in new industries," according
                    to James Morrison, prominent AFGWU leader. Offers of free gas, free land, free railroad switches,
                    and tax remission were made. In eleven cities and towns gas was offered free to industry; in others
                    it was offered at nominal prices.18 "Manufacturers of all sorts flocked
                    to a territory where free fuel was offered to all comers."19 In many
                    sections real estate values doubled within a year after the discovery of gas. By 1889-1890 the state
                    counted 162 new factories, over nine and one-half million dollars of new capital, and more than
                    10,000 workers in the new plants.20
            
            Possibly the most important of the new industries was the glass industry. The boom of the
                    1890's made Indiana second only to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in the production of glass. Of the sixty-two Indiana glass plants operating in
                    1895-1896, the fifteen bottle houses, six fruit jar factories, and ten plants producing
                    miscellaneous ware were of concern to the AFGWU. Prominent among these firms was the Ball Brothers
                    Company of 
                        Muncie
                    . Others included were the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Flint Glass Company, Anderson; Swayzee Glass Company, Swayzee; Depauw Glass Company,
                    New 
                        Albany
                    ; Maring Hart Company, Dunkirk; Leader Glass Company, Yorktown, and firms, for which no
                    names are available, at Ingalls and Red Key. All of these later firms were operating nonunion in
                    1895.
            During this period in Indiana, Morrison recounted when writing for the Glass Container
                    Manufacturers' Institute years later, a great amount of whiskey was being sold over the bar
                    in take-out bottles. Saloon keepers would buy whiskey by the barrel, dilute it with water, then sell
                    it in short capacity take-out bottles, known as jojo, picnic, or shoofly flasks. "Eight
                    newly formed bottle companies, backed by local capital obtained from farmers and small businessmen
                    engaged and specialized in making these short capacity flasks.
            "These factories operated without regard for the union. Little blowing skill was required as
                    most any quality would pass muster. Young men from the farms, from the pool rooms, and the corner
                    drug store were brought in and in a 
                  
                     18 James Morrison, manager of the AFGWU flask factory, in an
                            unpublished manuscript entitled, Indiana Gas Belt, 1885-1920, (written at the request of the
                            Glass Container Manufacturers' Institute), 1.
                  
                     19 Levering, Historic Indiana, 487.
                  
                     20
                            Third Biennial Report of the Bureau of Statistics, Indiana(1889-1890),
                        6.
               
                     short while were full fledged flask blowers, for which they
                    were paid about fifty per cent of the union wage rate."21
            
            Labor for these plants was also drawn from among young workers in union glass factories in 
                        Ohio
                     and other glass producing states. Some of these men were disgruntled because they felt
                    that the AFGWU's strict apprenticeship laws kept them from becoming craftsmen. The gas belt
                    houses hired these men because their experience, even though limited, was valuable. Immigrant boys
                    from south Indiana were drawn in. Child labor was employed extensively.22 Still
                    other workers were former members of the AFGWU, outside its ranks because they were unable to find
                    work in organized plants, or had been suspended or expelled. All of these groups were hostile to the
                    union and willing to accept rates far below the union scale. As a result, the nonunion firms were
                    able to sell their flasks through jobbers at prices 15 to 20 per cent below those quoted by the
                    unionized plants.23
            
            The nonunion firms had three outstanding advantages over the organized companies. First, as has been
                    stressed, they paid lower wages, sometimes 40 per cent or more below the scale. Second, they were
                    not burdened by union-enforced limitations on output (known in the industry as "limited
                    turn work"), Saturday afternoons off, observance of strict craft lines in production, and
                    the many other restrictions which made the life of the union workers easier and the costs of their
                    employers higher. Finally, the nonunion houses worked the year around, not halting for a summer stop
                    of six to eight weeks to spare their workers during the hot weather. And glass factories were almost
                    unbearably hot in the summer months in those years before modern fans and ventilation.
            The union's officers were aware of the advantages held by the unorganized factories and were
                    determined to offset them. The most obvious method of bringing these firms under control was to
                    organize their workers and this the AFGWU tried to do. One of the major efforts in the east centered
                        
                  
                     21 Morrison, Indiana Gas Belt, 2.
                  
                     22 Virgil M. Simmons (ed.), Indiana Review, The Story of
                                the State of Indiana from, its Beginning and a General Survey of Progress to the
                            Present (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1938), 274.
                  
                     23 John M. Levis, treasurer of 
                                Illinois
                             Glass Company, to James Morrison at Summitville, February 19, 1901, quoted in
                                AFGWU Proceedings (1901), 139-41.
               
                     about the Corning Glass Works, Corning, 
                        New York
                    , a firm that had long resisted organization. The union went on strike at this bulb
                    producing plant late in 1890. Seizing the opportunity thus presented to enter the electric light
                    bulb industry, the Libbey Glass Company of 
                        Toledo
                     leased an old Findlay, 
                        Ohio
                    , plant and hired a large number of the Corning strikers to man it. The move was
                    successful for the company, but marked with tragedy for the men. When the strikers who had been
                    hired were returning to Corning in the 1891 summer stop period, a freight plowed into the rear of
                    their train as it waited in Ravenna, 
                        Ohio
                    , killing eighteen men and injuring twelve.24 The union's
                    efforts were spurred by this disaster but the strike was eventually lost.
            In the west both the AFGWU and the GBBA acted energetically to organize the rapidly expanding glass
                    industry of Indiana. Partially as a result of their activity, the wages paid to skilled glass
                    workers were among the highest in the state; indeed, only skilled tin plate workers exceeded them in
                        1895-1896.25 Over the decade, as economic conditions improved, their
                    organizing efforts met with considerable success except among the small flask plants. By May, 1899,
                    the AFGWU had fourteen locals in ten Indiana cities (
                  Albany, Alexandria
               , Anderson, 
                        Elwood
                    , Frankton, Gas City, Green-town, 
                  Marion,
                            Muncie
               , and Summitville) with 1,506
                    members. The GBBA had seven locals in as many cities (
                        Albany
                    , Fairmont, Gas City, 
                        Marion
                    , Matthews, 
                        Muncie
                    , and Upland) and 393 members. There were also six other glass unions, concentrated
                    mainly in the window glass industry.26
            
            As part of its organizing drive the AFGWU held a "social session" for union and
                    nonunion men in the Anderson, Indiana, opera house in June, 1899. Representatives of all the
                    nonunion plants were present to hear Mayor Sam "Golden Rule" Jones of 
                        Toledo
                    , and President W. J. Smith of the AFGWU. These efforts under the direction of AFGWU
                    organizer Thomas W. Rowe were so successful that the Commoner and Glassworker
                    reported: "The men in every non-union 
                  
                     24 Rowe, Souvenir History of the American Flint Glass
                                Workers' Union, 54-57.
                  
                     25
                            Sixth Biennial Report of the Bureau of Statistics, Indiana (1895-1896),
                            225.
                  
                     26
                            Eighth Biennial Report of the Bureau of Statistics, Indiana (1889-1900),
                            157-74.
               
                     factory in the ‘gas belt’ have been
                    organized and many of the largest firms are now on the point of signing the union
                    agreement." These plants were not to be won without a stuggle, however. At Lapel the
                    townsmen sided with the employer when the union struck for recognition and even attacked a local
                    hotel with stones and bullets when two strikers were found there. Furthermore, the organizing
                    campaign resulted in lockouts in Dunkirk, 
                        Hartford City
                    , 
                        Middletown
                    , Millgrove, and Parker.27
            
            The situation had been far less encouraging for the AFGWU earlier in the 1890's especially
                    in the flask houses. James Morrison contends that in the earlier years, "the union attacked
                    the situation by the traditional ‘organize and strike’ method, but it soon
                    found that the ‘flaskeries’ could bring in new recruits from the farms and
                    pool room as fast as the old ones could be persuaded to join the union and strike. The union also
                    soon found that it was taking into its membership a mass of poorly trained bottle blowers faster
                    than it could absorb them.28
            
            In all sections during the early 1890's the AFGWU production restrictions by themselves
                    would have made the nonunion employers resist them. And its attitude toward non-unionists,
                    foreigners, and the unskilled workers made it difficult to win over the employees. For instance,
                    Summitville, Indiana, men who had scabbed complained that when they wanted "to do the right
                    thing" union members as a rule "forced them to the wall by refusing to work for
                    them or with them."29 Furthermore, as the depression of 1893 struck and
                    grew worse and the union became involved in a major strike against the 
                        United States
                     Glass Company, the AFGWU had less money to spend on organizing and in supporting
                    strikes. Nonunion workers became more reluctant than ever to endanger their jobs by union activity.
                    Finally, the organizers were occasionally confronted by yellow dog contracts and threats of arrest
                    (or actual arrest) for conspiracy. As a result the organizing compaigns of the early 1890's
                    lagged. New methods were needed.
            The most effective measures, other than organization, available to meet nonunion competition were
                    wage reductions 
                  
                     27
                            Commoner and Glassworker, June 10, 24, July 1, 1899.
                  
                     28 Morrison, Indiana Gas Belt, 3.
                  
                     29
                     AFGWU Circular, August 18, 1893.
               
                     and relaxation of production restrictions in unionized firms.
                    If production conditions were equal, or nearly so, the unionized employers could hold their own, for
                    they readily admitted that the union members were more skilled than the workers outside the
                        organization.30 But union members were most reluctant to take such steps.
                    The wages and rules in question represented to them the product of a long, hard struggle.
            Nevertheless, the union finally recognized the necessity for making concessions to meet competition
                    and maintain employment. The union insisted on a full investigation before accepting a change,
                    however, as was illustrated by the joint action of the union and the employers in sending Vice
                    President Thomas W. Rowe to Europe in 1902 to investigate the competition of foreign-made light
                    bulbs.
            Once it was decided that the employers needed help, the union had a wide choice of action. Relief
                    might be given by establishing special low wage rates, increasing moves (i.e., standards of output),
                    employing a sliding scale of wages, removing output limitations, working the summer stop, or in
                    other, less important, ways.
            From the point of view of the national officers a first step was to keep the bargaining committees
                    from making demands on the employers which would make the situation even worse. President Smith had
                    continually pleaded for moderation. In 1891, for instance, he told the convention: "Indeed,
                    it is not impertinent to say here that the demands of nearly all our departments should be
                    reasonably modified, or the AFGWU will be caught in the position of an animal that crept into a hole
                    barely wide enough to admit him in search of plunder, and having found it, gorged himself so full
                    that he could not get out again, and was caught."31
            
            One of the major early concessions came in 1890 after a study of the rate structure and methods used
                    by the 
                        Cumberland
                     Glass Company of 
                        Maryland
                    . In this case, in the punch tumbler branch of the paste mold department, prices were
                    lowered, piece work was substituted for turn work and output was increased, but the better working
                    conditions enjoyed by the 
                        Cumberland
                     Company's nonunion workers were insisted upon.32 These
                    changes temporarily helped the 
                  
                     30
                            AFGWU Proceedings (1894), 56.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., (1891), 24.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., (1890), 82.
               
                     employers and enabled the union members to continue at work,
                    and even improve their earnings.
            The relief was short-lived, however, and the punch tumbler workers were forced to accept the
                    unlimited system in 1892 with results that "far exceeded the anticipation of
                    success," as Secretary William J. Dillon told the 1893 convention meeting in 
                        Marion
                    . "It will be remembered that the nonunion houses controlled this trade prior
                    to the past year."33
            
            In 1893, in the midst of the depression and prodded by "fierce competition," the
                    tableware manufacturers led by the 
                        United States
                     Glass Company demanded relief. They wanted to abolish the arbitary summer stop rule,
                    remove the limit on moves in the pressed ware, iron mold, and paste mold departments, and equalize
                    moves and wages for tumblers and beer mugs in union and nonunion houses. Despite the strenuous
                    efforts of the union's national officers, first the departmental members and then the
                    entire union membership voted against making substantial concessions. In disgust, the 
                        United States
                     Glass Company locked out 1,500 men in twenty-four locals including Local 97 in Gas
                    City, Indiana. Thus began a lockout-strike which lasted nearly four years, permanently crippling the
                    company and badly injuring the union.34
            
            The other manufacturers soon deserted the 
                        United States
                     Glass Company and formed a new organization, the National Association of Manufacturers
                    of Pressed and Blown Glassware, to resume relationships with the union. To these employers, as will
                    be seen, the AFGWU gradually conceded the unlimited system, which had been the chief cause of the
                    great strike, and other changes. In 1896 the union applied a sliding scale of wages to common jelly
                    tumblers with conspicuous success.35 The next year union officials suggested
                    extending this system to other strongly competitive items, but the members refused and later even
                    tried to remove it from tumblers.36
            
            The employers persistently demanded unlimited piece work. The national officers agreed whenever
                    competition was very strong, but opposed not only unlimited piece work, but even production beyond
                    the move (standard) on limited 
                  
                     33
                            Commoner and Glassworker, July 15, 1893.
                  
                     34 Rowe, Souvenir History of the American Flint Glass
                                Workers' Union, 62-65.
                  
                     35 J. W. Blum, National Collective Bargaining in the Flint Glass
                            Industry (unpublished doctoral dissertation, 
                                Princeton
                            , 1934), 42, 283.
                  
                     36
                            AFGWU Proceedings (1897), 54-55; Ibid. (1901), 45,
                        318.
               
                     turnwork when competition was not vigorous. Thus President
                    Smith in 1896 argued that production beyond the move did not increase the workers' pay,
                    under the prevailing system, but did make it difficult for older workers to meet the higher
                    standards which inevitably resulted. Furthermore, "the greatest evil of …
                    [producing more than the limited move] … would fall hardest upon the younger members of
                    the trade, for by increasing the output of each shop one-fifth, it is as clear as day that the
                    opportunities of work in that factory are reduced in the same proportion."37 Smith was obviously making the questionable "lump of labor" assumption of
                    a set amount of work to be done, not affected by wages or prices.
            Under this constant pressure from the employers and the union leaders, various departments did relax
                    output restrictions as the decade wore on. The pressed ware department accepted the unlimited basis
                    of production in 1897 in exchange for the manufacturers' agreement to divide work among
                    union members during slack periods and to provide their workers the better conditions prevailing in
                    nonunion houses. (The nonunion firms had made great efforts to provide conditions which would enable
                    their workers to increase output, and thus spread their overhead costs over more units. The
                    organized houses, faced with limited turn work, had had less financial incentive to make production
                    easier for their workers and had allowed both equipment and working conditions to deteriorate.) The
                    iron mold department removed output limits in 1898 and 1901.38
            
            The manufacturers argued vigorously for relief from the union's summer stop rule. President
                    Smith agreed that, "while union houses are closed, non-union houses are in operation and
                    taking the trade."39 The issue became so heated that in 1894 Smith
                    declared that it was "no exaggeration to say that the peculiar arrangement of the summer
                    stop period has done more to foster the growth of non-unionism than all other causes
                        combined."40
            
            The different departments occasionally consented to work 
                  
                     37
                            Ibid. (1896), 58.
                  
                     38
                            Commoner and Glassworker, March 19,1895; AFGWU
                            Proceedings (1897), 24-25; Ibid. (1902), 18.
                  
                     39
                            Commoner and Glassworker, July 15, 1893.
                  
                     40
                            AFGWU Proceedings (1894), 33.
               
                     through the summer stop in response to special pleas. More
                    often, they rejected such requests, even when their refusal meant real hardship for their employer.
                    The Pendleton Bottle Company of Pendleton and the Sheldon-Foster Glass Company of Gas City, for
                    instance, had such requests denied in 1895.
            The various departments at times did allow the individual manufacturers to select the six or
                    eight-week period for the summer stop. However, this practice led to conflict between crafts making
                    similar ware. When one department was out and the employer needed its type of ware, he would ask a
                    related department which was still working to make it. The regular department, fearing a loss of
                    work, quite naturally would protest vigorously.
            Most interesting of the programs proposed or employed by the union are those modeled on the business
                    practices of the period—measures used with success by corporations.
            Beginning in 1894 and continuing for several years, the union placed a full-time man in the field to
                    persuade dealers to favor union-made ware over nonunion. William Beck of Anderson, Indiana, held the
                    post for several years. This union "salesman" developed the effective technique of
                    taking a representative of the local AFL central labor union with him as he called on the dealers of
                    each locality. In 1897 the bottle manufacturers and the prescription department set up a committee
                    to study use of a union label.41 As a result, in 1898 the union inaugurated the
                    practice of placing a union stamp on bottles to assist the agent in his efforts.
            Failing to organize many of the nonunion houses and yet suffering from their competition, the union
                    sought a way to drive them out of business. This method of aggressive capitalists∗ could
                    be employed by unions as well as corporations. In 1887 the union had taken stock in a Sharpsburg, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , plant "to hold factory from scabs." In 1895 the prescription
                    department resurrected this idea and urged the union to buy up the "paper"
                    (promissory notes) of small Indiana gas belt concerns and refuse to extend the loans when they fell
                    due, unless the firm accepted the union. The scheme was dropped, however, when the officers found
                    that the amount of paper outstanding was boundless.42
            
            
               
                  41
                        Commoner and Glassworker, August 14, 1897.
               
                  42
                        AFGWU Proceedings (1887), 37; Ibid. (1895), 211; Ibid. (1896), 23.
            
            
            Many members urged the union to establish a producers' co-operative to combat the
                    unorganized plants. At the 1896 convention there was a strong movement for one. When the rumor
                    spread that the AFGWU was planning to build a factory, representatives of Swayzee, Indiana, asked
                    that Swayzee be considered as the site. They claimed, "we are situated in the best part of
                    the natural gas belt, and can give your people splendid inducements to locate at our
                    place." The plan was rejected, however. Two years later, with support of the president, a
                    resolution for a co-operative passed, but a specific plan to establish "The Co-operative
                    Flint Glass Workers' Manufacturing and Distributing Association of America" was
                    defeated. A profit-sharing scheme to assist union firms (and their workers) which did not have the
                    machines, was also rejected. The same year the president suggested that the union, alone or with
                    organized employers, buy up the Owens machine.43 But, again, nothing was done.
            The bounty system of fighting nonunion competition in the Indiana gas belt and elsewhere got beyond
                    the discussion stage. This unorthodox idea was first presented by President Smith in 1889. Under his
                    plan, as described by Morrison, "the union would pay to any manufacturer employing its
                    members an amount that would equal the difference between the union rate of pay and that paid by the
                    ‘flaskeries’ on any order taken at competitive prices for jojo, picnic, and
                    shoofly flasks."44 The bounty would enable workers to receive the union
                    scale, part from the employer, and the remainder from the union. The employer in turn would have
                    lower costs, and therefore could cut his prices and possibly drive his nonunion competitors out of
                    business. This method would be as effective as a strike, and cheaper, Smith argued.45
            
            After much hesitation the program was tried in 1893 in the midst of the depression. From November,
                    1893, to March, 1895, the union paid out $7,233.00 in bounty to eighteen bottle companies
                    and five men, who may have been representatives of these or of additional companies. Of the firms
                    listed as receiving the bounty, only one, the Anderson 
                  
                     43
                            Ibid. (1896), 170-71, 186-87; Ibid. (1895), 25, 26, 50,
                            191, 225, 241; Ibid. (1898), 54.
                  
                     44 Morrison states that the plan grew out of a discussion between him
                            and Smith. See Morrison, Indiana Gas Belt, 3.
                  
                     45
                            AFGWU Proceedings (1889), 31-32.
               
                     Flint Bottle Company, was located in Indiana.46 The measure apparently strengthened the unionized firms against their unorganized rivals.
                    Furthermore, it aided the union's tableware department in its strike against the 
                        United States
                     Glass Company, which was then in progress. At the end of a summer stop in the midst of
                    this strike, a move was made by the employers to get the bottle houses to support the 
                        United States
                     Glass Company. However, some of the bottle producers had already started under the
                    bounty system and the others, fearing their competition, rejected the alliance.
            President Smith believed that the bounty was effective. James Morrison, superintendent of the
                    union's flask plant, insisted in 1901 that in all but one instance the money went into the
                    private pockets of the recipients and was used to lower prices.47 Thomas W.
                    Rowe, later president of the AFGWU, and still later a high company official, contended that the gap
                    between the union and nonunion wages was too great to be closed by the bounty. When writing about
                    the project in later years, James Morrison revised his earlier estimate. He stated then:
                    "This plan, for a time, looked as if it might work, but the rank and file of the AFGWU
                    membership loudly protested that they would not allow any of their hard-earned money which was paid
                    into the union as dues to be paid to any employer. Even though it was easy to demonstrate that the
                    bonus plan would cost the union less than the traditional ‘organize and
                    strike’ plan, the bonus plan had to be abandoned."48
                    Morrison's later appraisal seems sound for a period of depression in which most strikes
                    were doomed to fail.
            Most unusual of all the union's programs was the establishment of a flask plant in the gas
                    belt. This project was sanctioned by the 1899 national convention held in 
                        Muncie
                    , to help the prescription department against the fierce competition of the unorganized
                    flaskeries. At the time, the AFGWU was working desperately to keep its prescription workers from
                    going over to the GBBA, which was gradually taking over the bottle business. The agitation in the
                    prescription department was undoubtedly a major factor in leading the AFGWU into this venture.
            
               
                  46
                        Ibid. (1894), 123-39; Ibid. (1895), 110-16.
               
                  47
                        Ibid. (1901), 146.
               
                  48 Morrison, Indiana Gas Belt, 3.
            
            
            By October, 1900, the union had a twelve-ring furnace in operation in Summitville, Indiana. The
                    factory had cost $12,000.00 and had been located in Summitville to take advantage of a
                    free gas well, factory site, and railroad switch offered by the community.
            The union flask plant paid the full union scale and sold much of its ware through the 
                        Illinois
                     Glass Company. This firm operated the nation's largest union flask factory in
                            
                  Alton, Illinois
               , and was also the most important jobber-customer of the
                    nonunion houses. The 
                        Illinois
                     Glass Company in 1901 undertook to resell the Summitville flasks in such a way as to
                    help the AFGWU force the nonunion factories into some kind of agreement to pay union wages and
                    maintain prices which would permit union houses to make a profit.49
            
            The "scab houses," Morrison declared, made "… very small or no
                    profits due to the intense competition between the flaskeries for the business and jobbers dealing
                    in saloon supplies." The idea behind the union plant "was to keep the prices of
                    flasks so low that there would be no profit and discourage new capital from venturing into [the
                    industry]. It was understood that the plant would lose money but that the loss would be less than
                    that required to pay strike benefits which would have to be done under the ‘organize and
                    strike’ plan." Furthermore: "The flask blowers employed at Summitville
                    were strikers from the ‘flaskeries’ and their employment at Summitville made
                    of them dues payers instead of receivers of strike benefits."50
            
            Superintendent Morrison appears to have managed the union plant efficiently; however, it lost money
                    because it paid union wages, but sold its ware below nonunion prices. The union claims that
                    operation of the factory discouraged the building of at least five new nonunion plants, and was a
                    factor in forcing seven of eleven flask-producing firms in the area to close, one firm to reduce
                    operations greatly, and the remaining three to limit their production. The Commoner and
                        Glassworker agreed that, "the purpose of the factory was successful, at least to a
                    certain extent… ."51
            
            The National Glass Budget, a management journal of the 
                  
                     49
                            AFGWU Special Convention Proceedings (1899), 15-20; AFGWU
                                Proceedings (1901), 79-80, 136-141.
                  
                     50 Morrison, Indiana Gas Belt, 4.
                  
                     51
                            AFGWU Proceedings (1901), 143-45; Commoner and
                            Glassworker, October 18, 1902.
               
                     period, was very critical of James Morrison and the flask
                    factory. His salary, his expense account and traveling, as well as the project, came in for censure.
                    The following quotation from the Budget reflecting the attitude of many nonunion
                    employers, suggests that the plant had hurt its opponents. "Not only has [James Morrison]
                    served a term in the Indiana legislature, but he has managed a strictly union whiskey flask factory
                    for nearly a year, and sold its product at any sort of a scab price he could get in order to take
                    business away from regularly established glass firms who preferred to run their business independent
                    of union control."52
            
            Despite this success, as the 1901 summer stop approached, Morrison became fearful that some of the
                    nonunion houses would take advantage of the lull in the union factory to reopen. Furthermore, the
                    union leaders and employers noted that the nonunion firms which had reduced production of bottles
                    had turned to other lines where their competition was now being felt. Disregarding these troubles,
                    the pressed ware department that year asked for a union factory to make tumblers, if a satisfactory
                    agreement with its employers could not be reached.53
            
            The union's flask plant was doomed, however. In 1901 the great bulk of the prescription
                    department finally left the AFGWU and went over to the GBBA. By 1902 the AFGWU had a prescription
                    department in name only and discontinued the production of flasks. The fight against the
                    "flaskeries" was no longer its fight. These firms did not last long, as Table 1,
                    page 230, suggests, for "the gas field was a shallow one, and the supply diminished rapidly
                    and the boom atmosphere died out."54 A supply of gas which might have
                    lasted a century if carefully used had been "squandered in less than 15 years."55
            
            Against the advice of the union's new president, Charles Voitle, the flask plant was
                    reopened in 1902 as a training school for bottle blowers to be used by the AFGWU in its growing
                    jurisdictional battle with the GBBA. In June, 1903, 
                  
                     52
                            National Glass Budget. June 1, 1901.
                  
                     53
                     AFGWU Proceedings (1901), 319.
                  
                     54 Morrison, Indiana Gas Belt, 3-4.
                  
                     55 Indiana Writers' Project, Indiana, A Guide to
                                the Hoosier State, 90.
               
                     however, fire destroyed the plant and saved the union from
                    further embarrassment.
            The economic pressures brought to bear on the AFGWU during the 1890's forced the union to
                    supplement its traditional tactics with unorthodox methods. The AFGWU found itself waging a bitter
                    fight against the formerly unionized 
                        United States
                     Glass Company, but co-operating closely with other organized employers by the use of
                    subsidies, union glass "salesmen" and the union label. The fight against the
                    nonunion houses, especially those in the Indiana gas belt, which endangered both the organized firms
                    and the jobs of union members, even led the union to set up its own flask plant.
            The AFGWU was forced to start relaxing the numerous production restrictions it had built up in its
                    militant first years. The movement thus begun eventually would eliminate almost entirely limited
                    turn work and the long arbitrary summer stop. And in the 1890's, in a few cases, even wages
                    were reduced.
            When prosperity returned, the AFGWU again launched organizing drives which added thousands to its
                    membership. The more unusual methods of fighting nonunion firms were laid aside. But this successful
                    transition was due, at least in part, to the greater freedom which the union now offered its
                    potential members and their employers.
            The AFGWU had survived a bitter struggle against numerous nonunion plants, the 
                        United States
                     Glass Company, the depression, technological change, and even the GBBA. It had
                    maintained relations with the employer associations in its field and continued to build a mature
                    collective bargaining system. The leaders and members had seen something of the fallacy of the
                    "lump of labor" theory and the value of making the necessary concessions to enable
                    their employers to continue in business and supply jobs. In the future they would make many more
                    concessions in return for additional wage and hour benefits. The employers, in turn, had developed a
                    high regard for the AFGWU's responsibility and resourcefulness. Out of such mutual
                    understanding and respect a healthy bargaining relationship could, and did, continue to grow.
         
         
         
            
               
                        German
                     Instruction in the Public Schools of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1869-1919 II.
            Frances H. Ellis∗
            Apparently no change was effected in 
                        Indianapolis
                     at the beginning of the new school year in September, 1869, by the state school law,
                    which had been passed earlier that year to provide for the teaching of 
                        German
                     in the public schools.
            The school board had appointed Superintendent Abram C. Shortridge to obtain the opinion of the
                    superintendent of public instruction with regard to the teaching of 
                        German
                     in the public schools, so that the board might understand clearly what it was expected
                    to do. The question was: "Does the recent amendment of Sec. 147, of the Revised School Law,
                    make it necessary for the School Board to procure a 
                        German
                     teacher for each and every School in this city?" The following was the
                    decision: "The provision of law is expressed that whenever the parents or guardians of 25
                    or more children in attendance at any school of a township, town or City, shall so demand, it shall
                    be the duty of the trustees to employ efficient teachers and introduce the 
                        German
                     Language as a branch of study into such schools. It is not required that 25 pupils
                    shall desire to study 
                        German
                    . This provision of law will be satisfied by furnishing all pupils desiring to study the 
                        German
                     Language with a competent teacher of that Language. Ordinarily one teacher of the 
                        German
                     will be sufficient for the schools of a city or town; but if pupils cannot be
                    accommodated without the employment of a greater number, a greater number must be employed. It is
                    not intended that any of the Public Schools shall be taught in 
                        German
                    , on the contrary it is expressly provided that they shall be taught in the English
                    language. The 
                        German
                     is not to be the language of the Schools but a branch of Study."1 The only business pertaining to 
                        German
                     during the new school year 1869-1870 was the appointment of a new teacher for the 
                  
                     ∗ Frances H. Ellis is associate professor of 
                                German
                            , Indiana University. The first part of this study appeared in the June, 1954,
                            issue of the Indiana Magazine of History; the third and final part will be
                            published in the December, 1954, issue.
                  
                     1 Minutes of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Board of School Trustees, September 3, 1869. (These minutes, which are in
                            manuscript, will henceforth be cited as Minutes.)
               
                     Ninth Ward, and one for the high school, to replace a teacher
                    who resigned in October.2 No petitions were presented.
            
               Der tägliche Telegraph in reprinting the annual report of the 
                        German
                     department of the council on education for the city of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , hoped that 
                        Indianapolis
                     would follow that city's example by accepting the constructive suggestions
                    therein contained. In the main, these were: that the course for the grammatical instruction in
                    English and 
                        German
                     be placed in close reciprocal action; that a seminary for teachers be established for
                    the training of competent teachers; that the supervision of the 
                        German
                     department in the public schools be placed in the hands of an experienced
                        supervisor.3
            
            By the end of the school year the 
                        German
                     citizens had not yet taken advantage of the amendment which had cost so very much
                    effort to have passed. The situation in June, 1870, with regard to 
                        German
                    , was, in all respects, exactly the same as it had been at the end of the previous
                    school year. The Telegraph felt called upon to prod the Germans of 
                        Indianapolis
                     to action by recommending a plan recently adopted by the 
                        Evansville
                     schools, the most important part of which was to begin 
                        German
                     instruction in the primary grades and to follow through with it for at least six
                        years.4 One indication perhaps that the suggestions of the Telegraph were not unheeded, was the appointment of a Mr. Dingeldey as teacher of 
                        German
                     in the high school and supervisor of 
                        German
                     instruction in the public schools. Dingeldey had been on the staff of the 
                        German
                    -English School for several years, and was recognized as a very competent and successful
                        teacher.5
            
            The first petition to be presented to the board came in August, 1870, from a most unexpected source,
                    namely, "from Susan Breem and twenty-five other colored citizens of the north-east part of
                    the city asking that the 
                        German
                     language be taught in the schools their children attended." It was
                        accepted.6 On February 4, 1871, "upon application of citizens it
                    was ordered that 
                        German
                     be taught in the Second 
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., September 9, 29, October 13, 1869.
                  
                     3
                            Der tägliche Telegraph, November 29, 1869. (Henceforth this
                            news paper will be cited as Telegraph.)
                  
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., June 30, 1870.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., July 13, 1870. Dingeldey's salary was $1200.00,
                            the same as that of the principal. The next highest was $900.00.
                  
                     6 Minutes, August 3, 1870.
               
                     Ward building, as soon as suitable teachers can be
                        obtained."7 In April, Shortridge, the superintendent, reported that
                    for the past month 535 pupils had been studying 
                        German
                    , "116 of which were English speaking and 419, 
                        German
                    ," seemingly a slight decline from the preceding year.8
                    Another petition arrived in July, 1871, "from the Finker Street District."
            At this same July meeting of the board, Clemens Vonnegut, from the committee on 
                        German
                    , music, and drawing, "reported a petition from the meeting of the 
                        German
                     citizens held at 
                        Washington
                     Hall, in reference to 
                        German
                     instruction in the schools." He accompanied it with the following report from
                    the committee: "The undersigned recognize the necessity for a better system of instruction
                    in 
                        German
                    , in as many of our schools as the same can be taught without too much of an
                    interference with instruction in English branches. The difficulties in the way are: 
                  1st. The want of well-trained teachers.
                  2nd. The lack of pupils who wish to study 
                                German
                             in sufficient numbers to allow of a proper grading.
                  3rd. The additional expense incident at the introduction of the most approved
                        system.
               
            
            "The first difficulty named can be overcome by paying sufficient salaries to induce trained
                    teachers to come to our city from elsewhere. The second difficulty named might be overcome by having
                    it announced that a certain number of rooms are to be opened for the reception of pupils who will
                    become such in the English and 
                        German
                     schools jointly, thus allowing a concentration of pupils whose parents may so desire in
                    some of our largest buildings.
            "The third objection we do not consider as the results will sufficiently repay us for any
                    additional outlay, if the system proves successful.
            "By commencing the improved methods, the system can be extended, and improvements made as
                    the work progresses. Your committee asks the Board to take early action in the
                        premises."9
            
            
               
                  7
                        I bid., February 4, 1871.
               
                  8
                        I bid., April 3, 1871.
               
                  9
                        I bid., July 22, 1871. Vonnegut thought that if the board would agree to pay
                        $800.00 for male teachers one could be obtained immediately and possibly more later,
                        while a salary not to exceed $700.00 might be sufficient to attract some fenale
                        teachers in neighboring cities "of sufficient competency to improve our present system
                        of 
                            German
                        ."
            
            
            The report was tabled until the following meeting, when it was again read and considered.10
            
            The committee no doubt began to realize that with improved methods there would soon be an expansion
                    in 
                        German
                     instruction, and therefore it drew up and presented on October 7, 1871, a set of rules
                    and regulations which, with only slight changes, remained in force until 1900, when there was a
                    drastic revision. Since they give an overall picture of the government of this branch of
                    instruction, they are included here with the minor changes made in 1874 enclosed in brackets:
            "Committee on 
                        German
                    , Music and Drawing submitted the following report: Rules and Regulations concerning the 
                        German
                     department of the Public Schools of 
                        Indianapolis
                    :
            I. Instruction in the 
                        German
                     language shall be given in the second, sixth and ninth Districts [also Fourth and
                    Eleventh] and in the High School.
            II. Hereafter instruction in 
                        German
                     shall be introduced in such schools as have an attendance of one hundred or more
                    children that can speak [who wish to study] 
                        German
                    , provided that the School be held in a building suitable for the purpose, and that the
                    parents of the children attending the school shall petition therefor.
            III. There shall be appointed a teacher of 
                        German
                     for the High School, who shall also be principal of 
                        German
                     in struction in the District Schools. He shall devise such plans as may be expedient or
                    necessary and report quarterly or semiannually to the Superintendent or the Board the condition of
                    said classes. He shall furnish the different 
                        German
                     teachers with instruction respecting the lessons and Books, and is empowered to convene
                    them, at some convenient time, to consult with them about the best methods, and other matters
                    pertaining to his department.
            He shall visit at least one school each day without neglecting his classes, he shall examine the
                    different schools and classes at the end of every scholastic year independent of the [
                        German
                    ] examination, and in general be governed by the corresponding rules and regulations of
                    the Board applicable to him as teacher and Officer.
            IV. Female teachers shall be employed if they can be obtained. But no teacher shall be deemed
                    competent to instruct 
                  
                     10
                            I bid., July 29, 1871.
               
                     in the 
                        German
                     department, unless proficient also in English.
            V. Instruction in 
                        German
                     shall commence [with the 
                        German
                     speaking children] not before C Primary grade, and [with English speaking children in
                    the C Intermediate Grade] children not able to speak 
                        German
                     shall not be allowed to commence 
                        German
                     before completing the D Intermediate Grade.
            VI. The instruction in the 
                        German
                     language must adapt itself to the English classes.
            The recitation of 
                        German
                     classes is to be as follows: In the C Primary, two lessons per day, one in the forenoon
                    of twenty minutes and one in the afternoon of fifteen minutes. In the B Primary, one lesson in the
                    forenoon and one in the afternoon, each twenty minutes in length. One lesson of thirty minutes each
                    day in the A Primary, and upwards. In the High School one lesson of thirty minutes per day. The
                    pupils from C Primary upward to be allowed one half of the time devoted to writing in school for the
                    purpose of practicing 
                        German
                     script, provided the 
                        German
                     Teachers can so arrange as to supervise the same.
            The 
                        German
                     language is to be used in giving instruction, except when the pupils do not speak 
                        German
                    .
            VII. Whenever it is practicable the instruction in English should be so regulated by the supervising
                    principals of the different schools as not to overburden the scholars who wish to learn 
                        German
                    .
            VIII. It must be insisted, that no scholar who has once entered a 
                        German
                     Class, can leave the same without the most urgent reasons, to be judged of by the
                    teacher and the 
                        German
                     Principal. The classes are formed in the beginning of the scholastic year, and no
                    pupils are admitted into them after they are started, except after due examination and approval by
                    the 
                        German
                     principal.
            IX. The boundaries of the respective schools in which the 
                        German
                     is taught shall be no hinderance to a scholar who residing in another district wishes
                    to join a 
                        German
                     class."11
            
            The board accepted the report, even though Vonnegut's name was not signed to it. He had
                    disagreed with a few 
                  
                     11
                            I bid., October 7, 1871. The words and phrases in brackets indicate some
                            minor changes that were made April 17, 1874. See the minutes of that date for the complete
                            set of regulations.
               
                     details, and therefore submitted a minority report on October
                    13. In it he set forth that he believed more time should be given to the teaching of 
                        German
                    : at least one hour every day to every class; that sufficient room, and a sufficient
                    number of teachers, even a sufficient number of buildings should be reserved for 
                        German
                     scholars alone; and that the 
                        German
                     language should be made one of the branches of the training school for teachers which
                    was soon to be opened.12 Nothing was done immediately about this report except
                    to spread it upon the record.
            After adoption of the rules by the board, there is a lull in the minutes. The trustees were busy
                    building new school houses, for which many special sessions were reqúired. Only two
                    petitions for 
                        German
                     came in before the end of the year 1872. The one from the Fourth Ward, which had
                    already been submitted the previous summer, but had been deferred, was presented on July 19, signed
                    by thirty-three citizens and eighty-eight children, and was granted at a special session of the
                    board ten days later.13 The second one, in November, was from one hundred
                    parents for instruction in the Eleventh District.14 In December, in the report
                    of the principal of the high school, it was recorded that 112 pupils out of a total of 253 were
                    studying 
                        German
                     in the high school.15 During the summer of 1873 the 
                        German
                     citizens of the Eighth District petitioned the board for the establishment of a 
                        German
                    -English school in the southern part of the city.16 At this time
                        
                  
                     12
                            I bid., October 13, 1871.
                  
                     13
                            I bid., July 19, 29, 1872. The petition had originally been presented by
                            Vonnegut on July 29, 1871.
                  
                     14
                     I bid., November 15, 1872.
                  
                     15
                            I bid., December 6, 1872. According to the report, the distribution of
                            subjects in the high school was as follows: 
                        
                           Number belonging to school
                           ……253
                        
                        
                           "
                           studying
                           Elocution
                           ……253
                        
                        
                           "
                           "
                           English language (first year)
                           ……145
                        
                        
                           "
                           "
                           Latin
                           ……134
                        
                        
                           "
                           "
                           
                                        
                                            German
                                        
                                    
                           ……112
                        
                        
                           "
                           "
                           Chemistry
                           ……35
                        
                        
                           "
                           "
                           Physiology
                           ……26
                        
                        
                           "
                           "
                           General History
                           ……72
                        
                        
                           "
                           "
                           Algebra
                           ……213
                        
                        
                           "
                           "
                           Geometry
                           ……17
                        
                        
                           "
                           "
                           Astronomy
                           ……15
                        
                        
                           "
                           "
                           English Literature (senior grade)
                           ……19
                        
                        
                           "
                           "
                           Mental and Moral Science
                           ……253
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     16
                            I bid., July 18,1873.
               
                     also, Dingeldey resigned and was replaced by Charles E.
                        Emmerich.17 By September, 
                        German
                     had likewise been introduced into the schools of the Seventh District.18
            
            As the school city of 
                        Indianapolis
                     grew, the board of trustees found it necessary in 1873 to set down rules and
                    regulations for itself as well, so that diverse matters could be handled more efficiently through
                    the standing committees. Section eleven defined the duties of the standing committee on 
                        German
                    , music and drawing: "It shall be the duty of this committee to take the
                    general charge of instruction in the 
                        German
                     language in the District Schools; to recommend to the committee, on the appointment of
                    teachers, such persons as it may find best fitted to teach the 
                        German
                     language, when vacancies occur, and to report quarterly to the Board, the condition and
                    wants of the 
                        German
                     department of the District Schools, to arrange the number of lessons in
                    Music," etc.19 The committee worked faithfully and in the spring
                    presented to the board the outlines of study. The course of instruction in 
                        German
                     for the public schools of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was spread on the minutes of April 17, 1874.
            Shortridge's report of June 19, 1874, shows a total of 718 pupils studying 
                        German
                     in the district schools and 138 in the high schools.20 The total
                    enrollment in all of the public 
                  
                     17 Emmerich, who was born in Coblenz, 
                                Germany
                            , in 1845, had come to the 
                                United States
                             in 1865. He began teaching in the district schools of 
                                Indianapolis
                             in 1869, then taught two years at 
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, before being called by Abram Shortridge in 1873 to teach in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             High School.
                  
                     18 Minutes, September 29, 1873.
                  
                     19
                            I bid., September 19, 1873.
                  
                     20
                            I bid., June 18, 1874. According to Shortridge's report, the
                            number of pupils studying 
                                German
                             in the district schools and in the high school for the year 1873-1874, was
                            distributed in the following manner: 
                        
                           District
                           German
                           American
                           Total
                        
                        
                           2
                           76
                           37
                           113
                        
                        
                           2
                           66
                           14
                           80
                        
                        
                           6
                           197
                           —
                           197
                        
                        
                           7
                           51
                           21
                           72
                        
                        
                           9
                           169
                           —
                           169
                        
                        
                           11
                           70
                           17
                           87
                        
                        
                           
                           —
                           —
                           —
                        
                        
                           Totals
                           629
                           89
                           718
                        
                        
                           High School
                           First Year
                           80
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Second Year
                           35
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Third Year
                           20
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Senior Year
                           3
                           
                        
                        
                           
                           Total 138
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
                     schools at that time was 7801.21 Another
                    petition, this time from the Thirteenth District, representing "the parents of 112 pupils,
                    who intend to study the 
                        German
                     language" was approved in August.22
            
            
               
                        German
                     instruction in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     public schools was still not satisfactory to the 
                        German
                     citizens, however. They felt that the results to date were not at all good, and would
                    not be until the entire system underwent a thorough change. In a petition to the board in February,
                    1875, they therefore suggested that the time for the study be extended, twenty minutes a day being
                    "entirely insufficient to enable even the most willing and efficient teacher to produce any
                    but trifling results," and that two school houses, one north and one south, be designated
                    for the explicit purpose of devoting half the time to English and half to 
                        German
                    . The details they left to the judgment and experience of the board.23 One result of this petition may well have been the consolidation of 
                        German
                     classes in the grades 2A to 8A for the 
                        German
                    -speaking and the English-speaking children; up to that time the former had begun their 
                        German
                     in the 2A and had continued it through the 8A, whereas the latter had not begun to
                    study 
                        German
                     until the 6B. This merging effected an economy in teaching force, and seemed to
                    "be attended with no serious disadvantages to either class of pupils."24 All pupils, American as well as children of foreign parentage, now had to
                    begin in the C Primary grade, and no pupil was allowed to begin in the C Intermediate grade (i.e.,
                    the 6B).25 The success attending the instruction caused a great many
                    English-speaking children to enter the 
                        German
                     classes. It therefore became necessary to change the method of instruction and also to
                    change textbooks.26
            
            During the year 1877 
                        German
                     was being taught in ten district schools to 2,432 pupils, but, oddly enough, it was
                    taken out of the first year in high school and kept in the 
                  
                     21
                            I bid., April 3, 1874.
                  
                     22
                            I bid., August 7, 1874.
                  
                     23
                     I bid., February 19, 1875.
                  
                     24
                            Annual Report of the Public Schools of the City of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1882-1883, p. 28. (These reports will henceforth be cited as Annual Report.)
                  
                     25 Minutes, September 3, 1875.
                  
                     26
                     I bid., August 3, 1877. The series of texts
                            adopted in 1877 was Klemm's Reading and Speaking 
                                    German
                                
                     , Books 2-6, published by Henry Holt and Company.
               
                     last three years only.27 This change in the
                    course caused a break in the continuity of the study for those who had begun 
                        German
                     in the grades, and delayed those who wished to prepare for college. Furthermore a pupil
                    could not take both Latin and 
                        German
                    , but had to choose between them. The principal in his report for the year 1878-1879
                    called attention to the disadvantages of both features and said succinctly: "The particular
                    subjects proper for a high school course ought not to be determined upon economic grounds, but
                    purely upon a consideration of the intellectual wants of those who are to take them."28 Nothing was done immediately, however, to rectify matters.
            Evidence that pupils were continuing their 
                        German
                     in high school even through their senior years is found, for instance, in the
                    graduating class of 1878. Twelve of the thirty-three graduates were enrolled in 
                        German
                     at the time of graduation. Two of the twenty-seven essays that were read at the
                    exercises were in 
                        German
                    , even though 
                        German
                     was not the native tongue of the young ladies who read them.29
            
            The more demand there was for 
                        German
                     instruction, the more it cost; therefore in 1875 a plan was devised, as we learn from
                    an annual report published several years later, "of placing teachers in charge of a room in
                    which a part of the pupils studied 
                        German
                    , to teach this language in addition to the regular work of the grade." The
                    main reduction came, however, by placing these teachers in such a way that it was necessary
                    "to employ special teachers of 
                        German
                     but half a day in a building, which had more than classes enough 
                  
                     27
                            Manual of the Public Schools of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1876-1877. Compare also Annual Report, 1882-1883,
                            p. 29. According to the Annual Report, 1878-1879, p. 71, 131 of the pupils
                            in the grades had been born in 
                                Germany
                            , and 2,147 of the parents were immigrants; p. 73, in the high school only 1
                            pupil and 31 parents had been born in 
                                Germany
                            . 
                                Germany
                             furnished 18 per cent of the adult population of the city.
                  
                     28
                            Annual Report, 1878-1879, p. 103.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, June 20, 1878, reporting the tenth graduation exercises of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             High School, said: "Miss Sallie Barbour followed with a 
                                German
                             essay, ‘Das Nibelungen Lied.’ The young lady's
                            voice was so engaging, her manner so animated, her smile so winsome, that everybody
                            concluded her essay was of good literary quality, although but few present could understand
                            the 
                                German
                             tongue. She was rewarded with applause and unnumbered floral greetings from her
                            admirers." The reporters added: "Miss Libbie 
                                Hamilton
                             read a 
                                German
                             essay, entitled ‘Verborgene Kraefte’ which being
                            interpreted, means ‘The effect of the hidden forces upon
                            society.’"
               
                     for a half day's time, but not enough to occupy the
                    full time of a special teacher."30 In 1882 an additional variation was
                    introduced: "All 
                        German
                     studying pupils of grades 6, 7, and 8 were collected in two rooms at the High School
                    building, and teachers were assigned to these rooms each half day, so that equal instruction was
                    given in both languages to all pupils. To accomplish this the teacher of English taught Arithmetic,
                    Grammar, and a part of the Reading in both rooms; while the teacher of 
                        German
                     taught 
                        German
                    , Geography, History, Spelling, Writing, Drawing, Music, and a part of Reading, using
                    her instruction in the 
                        German
                     language, except in the Reading class and in the dictation of English words for
                    Spelling. The language of the school room was thus one-half the time English and one-half 
                        German
                    ."31 To accomplish this the pupils were furnished
                    geographies imported from 
                        Germany
                    .32 Since these 
                        German
                     texts were, however, not sufficiently detailed for countries "outside the 
                        German
                     Empire and 
                        France
                    ," a translation into 
                        German
                     was made of the book in regular use in the schools. The board had it printed and then
                    sold it to the pupils.33
            
            "Geography thus became the main 
                        German
                     study of the pupils, and they recited in English or in 
                        German
                     as directed, the lessons they studied in 
                        German
                    . The difficulty found in doing this was not greater than was anticipated. Vocabularies
                    and interlinear translations were arranged for them. All study of this kind was done in the presence
                    and with the aid of the teacher, and in a few weeks, considerable readiness was secured. These
                    pupils were about equally divided between children of 
                        German
                     speaking and children of English speaking parents… . Examinations were in
                    English, except in 
                        German
                     and Geography." In geography and in 
                        United States
                     history, taught from a 
                        German
                     translation of 
                        Campbell
                    's 
                        
                            United States
                        
                    
                    
                  
                     30
                            Annual Report, 1882-1383, p. 29. Teachers who taught 
                                German
                             in addition to their regular work were paid $25.00 a year extra.
                  
                     31
                            I bid., 29-30.
                  
                     32 Minutes, August 4, 1882. Two texts were imported: D. Richard
                            Andree, Volkschul Atlas and Daniel, Leitfaden für
                                den Unterricht in der Geographie.
                  
                  
                     33 The Annual Report, 1882-1883, p. 30, gives the
                            title of the book in general use in the schools: Guyot, Intermediate
                            Geography. In the Minutes, June 1, 1883, it is recorded that the translation of the
                            geography was made by a Mrs. French and that she was paid $50.00 by the board of
                            school commissioners for her work, even though she had not expected any remuneration.
               
                    
                    History, the examinations were in 
                        German
                     and also in English.34 "At the end of the year the classes
                    would write an examination in these subjects in either language with equal facility. The amount
                    accomplished in Geography and History was not equal in extent to that done by pupils using English
                    text books. At the beginning of the year the lessons in these subjects were necessarily much shorter
                    than those that would otherwise have been given. During the last quarter of the year full lessons
                    were given and readily learned." The superintendent thought that there was "a
                    great educational value in thus studying the same subject in two languages," because it
                    taught "the pupil the very difficult lesson that a thought is independent of a form of
                    words, and may be variously expressed. It threw the pupil perforce into the selection of words for
                    the expression of his thought rather than into his memory for the set of words there
                        stored."35 Although some pupils were more enthusiastic than others
                    over this type of work, the experiment was on the whole considered a success, and this method of
                    instruction in 
                        German
                     in the higher grammar grades was continued over a period of years.
            At the end of the school year of 1882-1883 the number of schools in which 
                        German
                     was being taught had been increased to thirteen in addition to the high school.36 From the 2A through the 8A, 2,460 pupils were enrolled in 
                        German
                    , 1,402 of whom were of 
                        German
                     parentage.37 One noticeable and deplorable fact in the table of
                    statistics of those studying 
                        German
                     for the year 1882-1883, was the great decrease of pupils in the upper grammar grades.
                    There were two reasons for this, namely, withdrawal from school and dropping the subject because it
                    was too hard, although many other reasons were offered as excuses. By the fourth grade, for
                    instance, only 37 per cent of those who had started the 
                        German
                     remained in the schools, whereas 50 per cent of those not studying 
                        German
                     continued.38
            
            In order to have uniformity, more control, and more success in the teaching of 
                        German
                    , the superintendent of 
                  
                     34
                            Annual Report, 1882-1883, pp. 20-31. 
                                United States
                             history was taught from Fischer, Gesehichten der Vereinigten
                                Staaten, a 
                                German
                             translation of 
                                Campbell
                            's 
                        
                                    United States
                                 History.
                  
                  
                     35
                            I bid., 32.
                  
                     36
                            Manual of the Public Schools of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1882-1883, p. 60.
                  
                     37
                            Annual Report, 1882-1883, p. 27.
                  
                     38
                            I bid., 27-28.
               
                    
                    
                        German
                    , Charles E. Emmerich, prepared a program for the course of 
                        German
                     studies. This was submitted to the board on August 16, 1884, by the committee on 
                        German
                    , etc., with the recommendation that it be printed.39 In September,
                    the same committee recommended that the supervision of 
                        German
                     be somewhat enlarged,40 and on January 16, 1885, the board
                    concurred in the report of the committee on 
                        German
                    , music, and drawing, which put 
                        German
                     back into the first year of high school.41
            
            On May 15, the committee, through Vonnegut, reported the system of teaching the 
                        German
                     language in the higher classes through the teaching of geography, history, etc., to be
                    a success and sought permission to have a new history compiled for use in the classes.42 This was granted. The first printing of the new book was already exhausted by the end
                    of the year, since some copies were sold outside of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .43
                    
                        German
                     instruction was functioning well.
            But then, just when the board seemed favorably disposed toward the instruction of 
                        German
                     in both the grades and in the high school, suddenly a dissonance sounded on May 11,
                    1886, with the presentation of a surprising resolution by George Merritt, one of the trustees, to
                    suspend the teaching of 
                        German
                     for one year. The motion failed of adoption but was referred to the whole board to be
                    considered again along with other financial matters.44 On May 21, 1886, Joseph
                    J. 
                  
                     39 Minutes, August 16, 1884. No copy of this course of study seems to
                            be extant.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., September 5, 1884. The committee also recommended that in
                            consequence of such additional work Emmerich's salary be increased to
                            $1,500.00.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., January 16, 1885. The minutes read: "In order to give
                            those pupils from the 8A grade and entering the 9B grade that had studied the 
                                German
                             language an opportunity to continue said study and giving them the necessary
                            facility to use said language freely, we deem it proper that it should be made optional for
                            them to continue said study and postpone instead of it, the study of Physical Geography to
                            the next semester."
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., May 15, 1885. Emmerich proposed to do the work with the help of
                            another competent person for a small compensation. "Mr. Vonnegut also moved that a
                            sufficient amount be allowed for the printing of said book, to be paid back later through
                            the sales therefrom." His report was referred to the committee on 
                                German
                            , etc., and the committee on textbooks, with power to act.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., December 5, 1885. By the end of the year the supply of 115 books
                            was already exhausted and permission was requested for another printing. It was thought that
                            about one hundred would be needed for 
                                Indianapolis
                             and fifty "would probably be demanded by other cities."
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., May 11, 1886.
               
                     Bingham, another trustee, unexpectedly moved the consideration
                    of an even stronger resolution: "Resolved that the office of Supervisor of 
                        German
                     be abolished, and that the teaching of the 
                        German
                     language in the Primary Grades be suspended for one year and until the Board shall have
                    recovered from its present financial embarrassment." This motion was tabled until later in
                    the meeting, when it was moved and passed that consideration of the resolution be indefinitely
                        postponed.45 The "indefinitely" proved to be a short
                    interval, for a little less than a year later, on April 15, 1887, the same discordant note was
                    heard. This time, Dr. Henry Jameson, a trustee, presented the following: "Resolved that it
                    is deemed expedient by this Board on account of its finances to discontinue the teaching of 
                        German
                     in the District Schools."46 The resolution failed of
                    adoption. There were two ayes, and nine nays. This did not end the matter, however. On May 1, 1887,
                    J. H. Greenstreet read section 147 of the Indiana school law regarding the teaching of 
                        German
                     in the public schools and asked the adoption of his motion that "the 
                        German
                     language be taught in no school of this city during the school year ending June 30,
                    1888, where the petition for the same has not been signed by the required number of parents or
                    guardians and filed with the Secretary of this Board before the first day of June next." A
                    postponement of action was moved until the special meeting. Greenstreet then presented the
                    following: "I call the Board's attention to section 147 of the School Law of the
                    State which reads thus ‘The common schools of the State shall be taught in the English
                    language and the trustees shall provide to have taught in them orthography, reading, writing,
                    arithmetic, geography, English grammar; physiology, history of the 
                        United States
                    , etc’ and I move to have the consideration of this clause of the law
                    referred to the Committee on Judiciary to be reported at the next meeting of the Board, whether the
                    present course of study in which geography and history of the 
                        United States
                     is taught in the 
                        German
                     language is in violation of this law." This question was referred to the
                    judiciary committee.47
            
            On May 13, 1887, Bingham reported from the judiciary committee that "the method of teaching 
                        German
                     under that 
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., May 21, 1886.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., April 15, 1887.
                  
                     47
                     Ibid., May 1, 1887.
               
                     section of the law is left to the discretion and direction of
                    the Board, and the Board in the exercise of that discretion and right having determined that the
                    best and most efficacious method of teaching 
                        German
                     is the present course of study in that language adopted by the Board, which includes
                    the study of Geography and History of the 
                        United States
                     in the 
                        German
                     language, hence it is not in violation of Section 147 of the school law."48
                    
                        German
                     had come through the skirmish safely—for the time being.
            To keep to the letter of Greenstreet's motion, Vonnegut, on June 14, 1887, presented
                    petitions for sixteen schools; these were ordered placed on file.49 On August 5,
                    the recommendation for 200 more 
                        United States
                     histories in 
                        German
                     was concurred in,50 while on October 7, 1887, approval was given to
                    the recommendation that a suitable textbook for instruction in 
                        German
                     grammar be prepared for use in sixth, seventh, and eighth grades, the so-called 
                        German
                     annexes.51 It seems that the textbooks on the market were not
                    adopted to the work in these grades but were intended rather for high schools and colleges and were
                    also too expensive.
            The school year was not to end in the same amiable manner, however; on May 4, 1888, Greenstreet
                    presented a resolution for the discontinuance of the teaching of 
                        German
                     in the public schools, the question to lie over until the next meeting.52 On May 18, 1888, the resolution was called up and was amended by Greenstreet to read:
                    "Resolved that the teaching of 
                        German
                     be discontinued in all schools except High Schools No. 1 and 2, from and after the
                    close of the present school year." This time his reason was that there were twenty rooms
                    with a seating capacity of 500 to 600 set aside for 
                        German
                     recitations to the exclusion of the study of English and that the seating capacity of
                    the school buildings was inadequate by 300 to 500 seats under the present system and that further
                    debt could not be created. The matter was referred to the committee on buildings and grounds to
                    investigate 
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., May 13, 1887.
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., June 15, 1887. Petitions were filed for schools Nos. 1, 2, 4, 6, 7,
                            9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 20, 24, 25, 26, and 28.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., August 5, 1887.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., October 7, 1887.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., May 4, 1888.
               
                     and report to the board the amount of room occupied by the 
                        German
                     classes.53
            
            On June 1, E. L. Williams made an incomplete report for the committee on buildings and grounds,
                    stating, "first—that no child entitled to the same had been refused admittance
                    to the schools for any reasons; second—that there were at present 2,750 vacant seats in
                    the District schools and 231 in the high schools, making a total of 2,981; third—that the
                    financial condition of the Board had been materially improved." After accepting the above,
                    further time was requested for a complete report, which was granted.54 In spite
                    of the fact that this report nullified the ostensible reasons given for Greenstreet's
                    resolution, the opposition to 
                        German
                     continued. In August a new attack was made. Trustee Hughes presented amendments to the
                    rules and regulations of instruction in 
                        German
                     to the effect that only three teachers of 
                        German
                     should be appointed in the sixth, seventh, and eighth grades; and one teacher for High
                    School No. 1. Instruction in 
                        German
                    , in other words, was to begin in the sixth year, instead of in the second as
                    heretofore. Furthermore, 
                        German
                     was to be placed under the superintendent of schools and the office of supervisor
                    abolished. To avoid a vote, John P. Frenzel moved that the board adjourn, but the motion
                    didn't pass. It was then moved and seconded that the amendments be adopted, whereupon the
                    chair decided that action should be deferred until the next meeting.55 However,
                    the matter did not come up, either at the next meeting, or throughout the year. 
                        German
                     teachers continued to be hired; new texts adopted, and further translations made.56
            
            The year 1889 passed uneventfully and 1890 began. On the surface all seemed well, but there were
                    undermining forces at work um das Werk zu vernichten. At a meeting of the 
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., May 18, 1888.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., June 1, 1888. Williams added that "the authorized
                            obligations of July last had aggregated $200,000… it would be
                            $160,000 for the coming July, thus showing a difference of
                            $40,000."
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., August 3, 1888.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., September 21, 1888, April 10, May 3, July 1, 5, 1889. Changes in
                            texts included the substitution of Klein's Second 
                                    German
                                 Reader for Weick and Grebner's Second 
                                    German
                                 Reader. Those parts of the text in Swinton, Intermediate
                                Geography, which were used for instruction in grades 6B, 6A, and 7B, were
                            translated into 
                                German
                             and a sufficient number of copies of the translation were ordered printed for
                            use in the 
                                German
                             annexes.
               
                     board on May 2, 1890, the unexpected happened. Frenzel, a
                    member of the board, was traveling in Europe, and J. A. Buddenbaum, who had just recovered from a
                    severe illness, was also absent.57 This meant that there were only four members
                    of the board present who were in favor of the instruction of 
                        German
                    , and five who were hostile to it. The meeting began in routine fashion, and continued
                    in the same way until just before the time of adjournment, when Theodore P. Haughey arose and
                    presented the following: "Whereas the committee on Text Books and course of Instruction has
                    made its annual report and has no recommendation of change in regard to the course of study in the 
                        German
                     language and whereas, many members of this Board desire to lessen the cost of
                    instruction in this branch, therefore Resolved that instruction in the 
                        German
                     Language be restricted to the three highest grades of the District Schools and the High
                    Schools and that the Committee on Text Books and Course of Instruction be and are hereby instructed
                    in conjunction with the Superintendent of Schools to make such modification of the present course of
                    Study in the 
                        German
                     Language as shall make the course adapted to the shorter time thus allowed for its
                    prosecution; and Resolved further that the Rules and Regulations for the Government of the Public
                    Schools be amended as follows, to conform to the foregoing changes in the course of study in the 
                        German
                     Language."58 Then followed his amendments and in support
                    of those his remarks, which were, in brief, that the time for the beginning of 
                        German
                     instruction was not fixed by law; that about $6,800.00, expended for 
                        German
                     below the sixth grade, could be saved; that it was not fair to pay out so large a sum
                    of money for this particular branch of study; and that statistics showed that although many pupils
                    began the study of 
                        German
                     in the second grade, the number of those who finished was disproportionately small. To
                    prove this last point he showed statistics from 1882 through 1889 and added: "We find from
                    statistics I have with me, that 617 scholars commence 
                        German
                     in the second year, and they gradually fall off each year until they reach the High
                    School, where there are but 38 who enter that school studying 
                        German
                    , therefore 575 out of 617 must have studied that language but a short time. Practically
                    then we are expending 
                  
                     57
                            Telegraph, May 3, 1890.
                  
                     58 Minutes, May 2, 1890.
               
                     all this money to teach 
                        German
                     to 38 pupils, this being the number who study it long enough to secure its
                        advantages."59 Haughey then moved the adoption of his report. This
                    was a surprise attack, and those in favor of 
                        German
                     instruction were stunned. J. W. Loeper was the first to recover; he asked, why cut off
                    only the first six years, why not be honest and take out all instruction of 
                        German
                    , for that was certainly Haughey's intention. Vonnegut declared that this was a
                    serious matter and needed careful consideration. He refuted several of the points which Haughey had
                    made, and then remarked that with regard to the high percentage of loss among the 
                        German
                     pupils, there was likewise a decided loss in other branches and classes, and that
                    possibly the perverse influence of others also had much to do with this point.60
                    Dr. A. R. Baker, favorable to the 
                        German
                    , moved to postpone action until the next meeting, which motion was lost by a vote of
                    four to five. Then Loeper moved to table the amendments, 
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., Number of 
                                German
                             pupils enrolled: 
                        
                           
                           1882-83
                           83-84
                           84-85
                           85-86
                           86-87
                           87-88
                           88-89
                        
                        
                           2 year
                           665
                           728
                           663
                           637
                           787
                           651
                           390
                        
                        
                           3 year
                           600
                           719
                           710
                           707
                           700
                           642
                           522
                        
                        
                           4 year
                           426
                           475
                           481
                           581
                           518
                           447
                           470
                        
                        
                           5 year
                           338
                           358
                           349
                           360
                           467
                           350
                           253
                        
                        
                           6 year
                           214
                           179
                           180
                           141
                           196
                           194
                           197
                        
                        
                           7 year
                           142
                           142
                           99
                           144
                           150
                           135
                           126
                        
                        
                           8 year
                           72
                           90
                           82
                           72
                           96
                           52
                           48
                        
                     
                            Compare also the Annual Report, 1887-1888, p. 45, for the annual report
                                of the 
                                    German
                                 department in the 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 public schools:
                            
                        
                           Grade
                           Boys
                           Girls
                           English
                           Speak.
                           German
                           Speak.
                           Close
                           of Yr.
                        
                        
                           2B
                           155
                           147
                           90
                           92
                           65
                           55
                           31
                           31
                        
                        
                           2A
                           176
                           173
                           97
                           86
                           79
                           87
                           151
                           140
                        
                        
                           3B
                           175
                           183
                           74
                           93
                           101
                           90
                           153
                           129
                        
                        
                           3A
                           156
                           176
                           54
                           79
                           102
                           97
                           136
                           163
                        
                        
                           4B
                           141
                           113
                           43
                           42
                           98
                           71
                           131
                           132
                        
                        
                           4A
                           108
                           122
                           45
                           37
                           63
                           85
                           99
                           96
                        
                        
                           5B
                           98
                           81
                           30
                           22
                           68
                           59
                           95
                           111
                        
                        
                           5A
                           87
                           84
                           22
                           13
                           65
                           71
                           55
                           45
                        
                        
                           6B
                           62
                           68
                           16
                           12
                           46
                           56
                           68
                           63
                        
                        
                           6A
                           29
                           35
                           10
                           10
                           19
                           25
                           44
                           39
                        
                        
                           7B
                           46
                           36
                           8
                           11
                           38
                           25
                           29
                           36
                        
                        
                           7A
                           25
                           28
                           5
                           5
                           20
                           13
                           27
                           21
                        
                        
                           8B
                           17
                           11
                           4
                           3
                           13
                           8
                           16
                           12
                        
                        
                           8A
                           13
                           11
                           2
                           1
                           11
                           10
                           6
                           7
                        
                        
                           Total
                           2,556
                           1,016
                           1,540
                           1,945
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     60
                            Telegraph, May 3, 1890. General attendance figures were low, too,
                            according to figures presented in the report for the year ending June 30, 1892. The per cent
                            of pupils who attended eight months or longer in the public schools from 1880 to 1890 ranged
                            between 62 and 67 per cent.
               
                     which was also lost by the same vote. Haughey's motion
                    to adopt was then concurred in by exactly the same vote of four to five.61
            
            The opposition had bided its time, and had been ready to act, when a favorable moment should present
                    itself. The proponents had done all they could to stave off action, but had been helpless; and so 
                        German
                     instruction, which had been installed after much hard work, and which had been built up
                    with untiring assiduousness over a period of some twenty years, was now put out of the first six
                    grades by one vote!
            
               
                        German
                     instruction in 
                        Indianapolis
                     had suffered a severe setback, but it was not beaten. The next afternoon Clemens
                    Vonnegut sent the following letter to every member of the board: "Allow me to call your
                    attention to the fact that the resolution of last night is a willful transgression of the law. Such
                    transgressions, if they are unimportant, as seem reasonable, as for instance demanding 100 instead
                    of 25 as the requisite number of pupils and commencing with the second instead of the first year,
                    are borne cheerfully, but in this case where we deal the death stroke to the study of 
                        German
                    , which after much deliberation and work has acquired approximate perfection in respect
                    to efficiency and cheapness, it must provoke a fight—an expensive lawsuit, with many
                    unpleasant consequences."62
            
            The Telegraph in a series of editorials declared that this was merely the first
                    step to eradicate 
                        German
                     from the school system and called upon all Germans to rally to the cause.63 It said
                    that this decree was not the wish of the majority of the members of the board, since it had been
                    passed when two of those in favor of 
                        German
                     instruction had been absent, but that it was the result of the decided agitation 
                  
                     61 Minutes, May 2, 1890.
                  
                     62
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 3, 1890. The News in its headlines said that
                            the move was inspired by common sense and a necessity for economy. In an editorial it
                            approved highly of the action of the board as "good business, good sense and good
                            economy,—in the double meaning of saving and fitness…." It
                            added: "The thought and sentiment, the aims and ideals of the country are being
                            compacted and unified. In this course the general thought now agrees in the uselessness of a
                            foreign language in the public schools, where the American citizen is being made. It is
                            still clung to by some 
                                German
                            -born citizens or the inheritors of 
                                German
                             sentiment, but it is a matter of sentiment merely, not thought. It touches
                            feeling, not reason, and in time—and a very short time—it will go its
                            way. It cannot resist the conclusion of reason—the logic, the hard sense of the
                            time."
                  
                     63
                     63
                            Telegraph, May 3, 1890.
               
                     against 
                        German
                     begun in 1886, which had been carried on through the press, until it had influenced
                    citizens into believing that instruction in 
                        German
                     was worthless and unnecessary. The agitators pretended that that which was the result
                    of their own machinations, namely the decrease in 
                        German
                     enrollment between the second and the upper grades, was the cause for the abolishment
                    of 
                        German
                    .64 The editorial added that the Germans had contributed relatively
                    more to the development of 
                        Indianapolis
                     than any other national group. It suggested that people take a walk through 
                        Indianapolis
                    , notice the many 
                        German
                     names of firms, and then ask themselves what would remain of the city, if these names
                    were subtracted. Pointedly it inquired if such a nationality did not deserve consideration?65 The Telegraph inferred that there was an overemphasis upon
                    the $10,000.00 spent for instruction in 
                        German
                     in view of the fact that the Germans represented 6,000 voters.66
                    Likewise criticism of the extra buildings necessary for such instruction was misplaced, because the
                    critics had failed to weigh the savings effected in education through some of those very Germans.
                    There were four large parochial schools, two Catholic and two Lutheran, which were supported
                    privately, and did not cost the city one cent, and yet the Germans who sent their children to these
                    schools also paid the taxes for the public schools.67 Another silly argument,
                    continued the Telegraph, which the opponents used, was that there could be no
                    unity in this country if other languages were spoken. In refutation it cited 
                        Switzerland
                     and 
                        Belgium
                    .68
            
            On Friday, May 8, a protest meeting was held, at which 400 Germans, mostly men, were present, the
                    greatest number that had ever come out on a week night. All strata of society were represented and
                    ready to fight for what they thought was right; many of them had left 
                        Germany
                     because of their 
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., May 6, 1890.
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., May 5, 1890.
                  
                     66 According to the census figures for 1890, the population of 
                                Indianapolis
                             was 105,436. Foreign population: 14,487; of this, 
                                German
                            : 7,893. Eleventh 
                                    United States
                                 Census, 1890, Part I, 370, 670-671. Revenue for school purposes, June,
                            1888, to June, 1889, was $252,004.95. Telegraph, May 9, 1890.
                  
                     67
                            Telegraph, May 7, 1890.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., May 8, 1890.
               
                     principles, therefore it was not to be expected that they would
                    give up a cause without a struggle. A chairman was chosen, the situation was fully explained, and
                    then the address to the school board, which had previously been drawn up, was read. In this the
                    alleged reasons for the dropping of 
                        German
                     in the first six years were refuted by showing, first, that instead of a deficit during
                    the preceding year, the school board books actually showed a balance of $3,621.83; and
                    second, that, according to the report of Superintendent of Schools L. H. Jones for the year 1888, an
                    alarming loss in enrollment was apparent from the fourth year on in every school system with which
                    he was acquainted, not just in 
                        German
                    , but in all classes. Many arguments were advanced for the retention of the 
                        German
                    , the most effective of which was the fact that on the tax ledgers of the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the Germans, who numbered 15 per cent of the population, paid 40 per cent of the
                    taxes. Yet these Germans had required only 4 per cent of the school funds for instruction in 
                        German
                    , an instruction which had benefited both 
                        German
                     and American children.69
            
            On May 16, the memorial respecting the question of 
                        German
                     instruction in the public schools was presented to the school board. It was read by
                    Superintendent Jones.70 Haughey arose immediately and discussed the increased
                    budget for the following year; Vonnegut explained certain points in the communication in greater
                    detail; then J. B. Conner spoke. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal reported his remarks: "It was never the theory nor the spirit of
                    the law, that the 
                        German
                     language should be taught in the Public Schools for the purpose of a spoken language.
                    The debates in the Legislature show that it was demanded on the ground that Latin, Greek and French
                    were taught more or less in the high schools,… But it now seems that some of our people
                    have taken the law too literally, and supposed that it was the purpose to teach another language for
                    common use besides the English…. It is very well known that the object of teaching Latin
                    and Greek and French in the Public Schools is not to enable anyone 
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., May 9, 1890.
                  
                     70 Minutes, May 16, 1890. Loeper of the school board made the motion,
                            which was adopted, that the memorial be received and placed on file, but it does not seem to
                            be extant.
               
                     to utilize them as a spoken language, for in these are found
                    chiefly the roots of the English language…. 
                        German
                     stands fourth in value to the English in this respect."71
                    At this point Vonnegut attempted to set Conner straight linguistically. There were further remarks
                    on the part of the opposition, but the delegation which had brought the communication was not
                    allowed to speak. Buddenbaum, who had been absent two weeks before, asked that he might be recorded
                    as voting against the motion to restrict 
                        German
                    , but the request was ruled out of order. He then moved to reconsider the motion to
                    restrict 
                        German
                     instruction; as he was absent when the original motion was made, however, it was ruled
                    that he could not move to reconsider.72 At this point Vonnegut requested a
                    motion from the opposing forces to reconsider the matter, but no one would do so. Consequently the
                    fate of 
                        German
                     instruction, as far as the school board was concerned, was sealed.73
            
            Both Catholics and Lutherans protested the action of the school board. As citizens who payed taxes at
                    the same time that they sent their children to private schools, they felt that they were justified
                    in their protestations. Furthermore, as the Rev. Phillip Wamsgans pointed out, in the public and
                    private schools of both 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , instruction in 
                        German
                     had practically been wiped out by law. 
                        Indianapolis
                     had now taken the first step in that direction. Both denominations felt that the
                    parochial schools would be next in the line of attack, and that it therefore behooved them to stand
                    shoulder to shoulder with their compatriots, regardless of creed or party.74
            
            Hatred of the 
                        German
                     language seems not to have been confined to 
                        Indianapolis
                     alone, but had sporadic outcroppings in other places, judging from stories that sifted
                    into the news from such 
                        German
                     cities as 
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               , and 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               .75 The battle that was being waged in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 
                  
                     71
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, May 17, 1890.
                  
                     72 These details are taken from the report of the meeting in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 17. The minutes themselves are very brief and do not give
                            details.
                  
                     73
                            Telegraph, May 17, 1890.
                  
                     74 For the Catholic protest, see the Telegraph, May
                            9, 1890; for the Lutheran, Ibid., May 19, 1890.
                  
                     75
                            Ibid., May 28, 1890.
               
                     not only attracted attention in other states, but elicited
                    moral support from all corners. The 
                        Baltimore
                    
                    Correspondent called it ein Ktdturkampf, in der besten Bedeutung des
                        Wortes (a cultural battle in the best sense of the word).76 Catholics,
                    meeting in convention in 
                        Milwaukee
                    , and Lutherans, at 
                        Chicago
                    , made it a subject for discussion and action. One of the Lutheran speakers, for
                    example, called attention both to the great work which Henry Melchior Mühlenberg had
                    accomplished in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in founding churches and schools, in which as he said, Luther's language had
                    been taught, and to the work of Karl Ferdinand Wilhelm Walther in 
                        St. Louis
                    .77
            
            In the meantime the petitions prescribed by law requesting instruction in 
                        German
                     in the grades had been filed.78 And now it was election time for
                    four new trustees, two from the Sixth and two from the Ninth districts. Every 
                        German
                     was urged by the Telegraph to vote. Reprints from various 
                        German
                     papers in other states urged the Germans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to protect their rights by the ballot.79 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News carried an editorial saying that 
                        German
                     was dangerous to the American character of the American schools, and the Telegraph retorted: "Where is the 
                        German
                     who has ever agitated against American schools? The American character is hurt through
                    such flagrant violation of the law, and through the artificial majority of the Board. Anyway, if it
                    is hurt by teaching 
                        German
                     in the five lower grades then why not in the three upper? The reasoning is not
                        logical."80
            
            Election day arrived. Tremendous excitement was reflected in the Telegraph.
               81 The vote was heavy, and the result was as might have been expected. All four
                    candidates were encumbent members of the school board up for re-election, 
                  
                     76
                            Ibid., June 6, 1890.
                  
                            77
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     78 Minutes, June 6, 1890. The Telegraph, June 7,
                            reported this meeting as a stormy one, but the minutes are silent on that point.
                  
                     79
                            Telegraph, June 7, 10, 11, 12, 13. On June 12, the Telegraph reported that the 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Anzeiger had reprinted the Telegraph's call to
                            arms and had added that if the Germans in 
                                Indianapolis
                             were not able to win with the law on their side, then in one city after another
                            they would be defeated.
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., June 13, 1890; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 12, 1890.
                  
                     81
                            Telegraph, June 14, 1890.
               
                     consequently the two 
                        German
                     candidates, Vonnegut and Loeper, were re-elected in the 
                        German
                     ward, and in the Irish ward, the two restrictionists, John James Garver and John
                    Galvin. The only surprise was that the Germans polled a large vote in the Irish ward.82 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal commented: "The teaching of 
                        German
                     was the sole issue where neither side won an advantage…. The school election
                    brought out a large poll and showed that the discussion on the restriction of 
                        German
                     had to a certain extent entered nearly every stratum of society. Good nature prevailed
                    for the most part, but occasionally there were some warm words. There was a deep undercurrent of
                    feeling, indicating pronounced convictions on the subject."83 Even
                    though the standing in the school board was as before, a majority was assured as soon as Frenzel
                    should get back from his trip to Europe, for then the friends of 
                        German
                     would again have six votes, the restrictionists only five. Wherefore the Telegraph rejoiced that, although 
                        German
                     instruction might suffer an interruption, it was not lost, but would be reinstated.84
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal took the attitude that if the Germans persisted, if they continued in the
                    agitation, the eventual results would be the abolishment of 
                        German
                    .85 Undeterred by this prediction, the Germans decided at another
                    protest meeting held on June 18 that if no 
                        German
                     teachers were appointed for the coming year, then a mandate from the courts would be
                    demanded. All preparations had already been made, so that there would be no delay.86 On June 19, the board met; but no 
                        German
                     teachers were appointed, because those favoring 
                        German
                     would not vote for the teachers in the high school and the annexes unless the other
                    teachers were included.87 The next step was therefore the appeal to the
                        courts.88
            
            
               
                  82
                        Ibid., June 16, 1890.
               
                  83
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, June 15, 1890.
               
                  84
                        Telegraph, June 16, 1890.
               
                  85
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, June 16, 1890. Immigration no longer played a part; it was now
                        considered an evil, and it was felt that it should be restricted by the federal government.
               
                  86
                        Telegraph, June 19, 1890.
               
                  87 Minutes, June 19, 1890.
               
                  88
                        Telegraph, June 20, 1890.
            
            
            The Germans began their suit on June 21, 1890.89 The matter was taken up in the
                    Marion County circuit court on the afternoon of July 11. On that day, however, the attorneys for the
                    school board did all of the talking so that the lawyers for Theodore Sander, in whose name the suit
                    was filed, did not have a chance.90 This of course created suspense and tense
                    excitement which lasted until circuit judge Howland handed down his written verdict on July 17. The
                        Telegraph announced the verdict in the heading: "Hier wird Deutsch
                    gesprochen/Und auch in alien Graden unserer Öffentlichen Schulen gelehrt, wie bisher so
                    fügen wir stolz and freudig bei." (
                        German
                     is spoken here and is taught in all the grades of our public schools, just as formerly,
                    we add proudly and joyously.)91 On July 18, the committee on 
                        German
                    , music, and drawing conveyed the mandate to the school board in the following words:
                    "Whereas the Circuit Court of Marion County has decided in the case of the State of Indiana
                    on the Relation of Theodore Sander vs. the Board of School Commissioners of the City of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , that it is the imperative duty of this Board to employ efficient teachers and
                    introduce the 
                        German
                     language as a branch of study in every school building in the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , upon the proper presentation of a demand signed by the parents of the requisite number
                    of pupils, whatever grades may be taught in said building, and Whereas the Court also held that the
                    same duty rested upon this Board as to all studies prescribed in terms by the Statute, which
                    decision is far reaching in its effects and these questions might forever to be put at rest, and
                    whereas—to delay the appointment of teachers to teach 
                        German
                     until this question could be determined on appeal by the Supreme Court, would be
                    detrimental to the best interests of all concerned. Therefore be it resolved by this Board, that the
                    persons heretofore recommended by the Committee on the Appointment of Teachers as per report hereto
                    attached be appointed for the several schools to which they were recommended and that the Attorney
                    of the Board be directed to take the necessary steps to perfect the appeal of said cause 
                  
                     89 129, Indiana Reports, 15.
                  
                     90
                            Telegraph, July 12, 1890.
                  
                     91
                            Ibid., July 18, 1890.
               
                     to the Supreme Court and prosecute the same to final
                        determination."92
            
            There was nothing left for the board to do except to concur in the report, and appoint the teachers
                    for the nineteen grade schools, plus the two annexes and the high school, and again to include the
                    name of C. E. Emmerich as supervisor of 
                        German
                    . The appointment for one of the grade schools, No. 9, was left blank, but was filled in
                    on August 15.93
            
            The matter was not settled finally, but was to be carried to the Indiana Supreme Court; nonetheless,
                    the Germans considered this first verdict handed down by an impartial American judge a great
                    victory. Congratulations began to pour in from 
                        German
                     papers all over the 
                        United States
                    , among them the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Volksblatt, 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Anzeiger, the 
                        St. Louis
                    
                    Westliche Post, the New Yorker Staatszeitung, the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Demokrat.
               94
            
            Even before the verdict had been handed down, Vonnegut had proposed on August 1 that the instruction
                    of 
                        German
                     be begun in the first grade, instead of the second, in order to teach it more
                    efficiently and to make it more accessible to children who did not hear 
                        German
                     spoken at home.95 The board was agreeable to submitting this
                    suggestion to the superintendent, who reported on August 15 that he would advise introducing the 
                        German
                     language into the 1A in such schools as could be taught by the 
                        German
                     teacher at the school, leaving the arrangement for other schools until the department
                    had profited from the experience of these.96 Perhaps this did not prove
                    feasible, for in later reports mention is made only of seven years of 
                        German
                     in the grades.97
            
            The verdict of the Indiana Supreme Court was handed down the following year, 1891. It upheld the
                    decree of the 
                  
                     92 Minutes, July 18, 1890.
                  
                     93
                            Ibid., August 15, 1890.
                  
                     94
                            Telegraph, July 19, 21, 1890. On July 18, the Telegraph
                            printed the following telegram of congratulations: "
                                Cleveland
                            , 17. Juli/ Adolph Seidensticker/ Der nationale deutschamerikanische Lehrerbund
                            in seiner zwanzigsten Jahresversammlung in 
                                Cleveland
                             sendet dem Deutschthum von 
                                Indianapolis
                             herzliche Glückswünsche zum Siege; es giebt noch Richter
                            in Indiana. Fick, Schriftführer"
                  
                     95 Minutes, August 1, 1890.
                  
                     96
                            Ibid., August 15, 1890.
                  
                     97
                            Annual Report, 1901-1902, p. 90.
               
                     lower court and its opinion was that "the board of
                    school commissioners can not set up a lack of funds as an excuse for their refusal to introduce the
                    study of 
                        German
                    , where it appears that studies not named in the statute as required studies are taught
                    at an expense greater than would be necessary for the teaching of 
                        German
                    ."98
            
            Legally, the path had been cleared; 
                        German
                     instruction was not only assured its existence, but could begin to expand unhampered.
            
               
                  98 129, Indiana Reports, 14.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            Notes on the Wabash River in 1795
            Dwight L. Smith∗
            Meeting the western Indians on the field of battle and defeating them was extremely important to the
                    new nation if its lands north of the 
                        Ohio
                     River were to be made safe for settlement and eventual statehood. After the
                    unsuccessful ventures of previous expeditions under Josiah Harmer in 1790, and Arthur St. Clair in
                    1791, Anthony Wayne led his well-trained legions and volunteer contingents northward into the heart
                    of the Indian country. Twice in 1794, at Fort Recovery in western 
                        Ohio
                     (April 30-June 1) and at Fallen Timbers in northwestern 
                        Ohio
                     (August 20), major engagements occurred. In both instances the Indians were defeated;
                    and in the latter they apparently lost support of the British upon whom they had depended so
                    greatly.
            The backbone of the Indian confederation was broken. This did not mean, however, a guarantee of peace
                    on the frontier in the Old Northwest. Military defeat must be acknowledged in a formal way and
                    definite concessions must be gained through the instrument of a peace treaty. To make sure this
                    treaty would not suffer the fate of previous Indian-American agreements that were not mutually
                    respected, Wayne set about consolidating his victory. For example, he daringly and openly insulted
                    the British in their Fort Miamis near the Fallen Timbers battle scene. He employed scorched earth
                    tactics on Indian fields and villages. He erected another military outpost, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     (Indiana), in the heart of the Indian country located at the forks of the Maumee River
                    and terminal point of the important 
                        Wabash
                    -Maumee Portage.
            Besides a general boundary line between the Indians and the Americans, Wayne was expected to gain
                    other important locations and concessions within the Indian country. One of these, the Wabash River,
                    is of present interest. Wayne was instructed to secure the posts and potential sites of posts along
                    the Wabash to maintain a chain of communications from the 
                  
                     ∗ Dwight L. Smith is assistant professor of history, Miami
                            University. Currently he is on leave of absence as visiting assistant professor of history
                            at 
                                Columbia
                             University.
               
                    
                    
                        Ohio
                     River to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .1 This is amplified in the draft form of the proposed treaty which
                    Wayne received from the war department. The Indians "will allow… a free passage
                    thro' their Country, by land and by Water…. from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     along the portage … which leads to the 
                        Wabash
                    , and then down the Wabash to the 
                        Ohio
                    ."2 Accordingly, between the American posts at 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , activity on the Wabash increased considerably in 1794 and 1795.
            Two of 
                        Wayne
                    's officers who made trips up and down the river recorded their experiences.
                    Ensign Thomas Bodley from 
                        Kentucky
                     was a member of the Third Sub-Legion. Lieutenant John Wade from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     belonged to the First Sub-Legion.3 Bodley descended the Wabash to 
                        Vincennes
                     and returned to the portage in the spring of 1795. He made some general remarks on
                    these journeys in a report to his commander.4 Both Bodley and Wade made trips
                    down and up the river again. On the return trip at least, both kept rather extensive journals. These
                    were extracted and sent to Wayne for what value they might be in connection with the pending
                        treaty.5 They are of considerable interest as commentaries on the 
                        Wabash
                    , its tributaries, its navigation, Indian camps and villages, natural resources, and
                    sites of potential military posts. Wade's extraction is more extensive so it is presented
                    here. Where pertinent, information from Bodley's observations and letters is used to
                    supplement the information given by Wade.8
            
            
               
                  1 Timothy Pickering to Anthony 
                            Wayne
                        , April 8 and 14, 1795, manuscript in the Northwest Territory Collection, William
                        Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana.
               
                  2 Draft of the proposed treaty, manuscript in Northwest Territory
                        Collection.
               
                  3 Brief sketches of these men can be found in Francis B. Heitman, Historical Register und Dictionary of the 
                                United States
                             Army… (2 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , 1903), I, 227, 991.
               
                  4 Thomas Bodley to John Francis Hamtramck, May 20, 1795, Anthony Wayne
                        Papers, Historical Society of 
                     Pennsylvania,
                                Philadelphia
                  , XLI, 10; Hamtramck to 
                            Wayne
                        , May 21, 1795, Ibid., Wayne to Hamtramck, June 7, 1795, Ibid., XLI, 52. These papers will henceforth be cited as 
                            Wayne
                         MSS.
               
                  5 Wayne to Hamtramck, June 7, 1795, 
                            Wayne
                         MSS., XLI, 52.
               
                  6 John Wade's extracts, 
                            Wayne
                         MSS., XLI, 64. Bodley, "Observations, on the Navigation, Soil, Waters,
                        & Villages of of [sic] the 
                            Wabash
                        , from Post 
                            Vincennes
                         to the Portage nine miles from 
                            Fort Wayne
                        —", [June 12, 1795], 
                            Wayne
                         MSS., XLI, 62.
            
            
            Extracts from a Journal of a tour up the Wabash from Fort 
                        Knox
                    
               7 to the portage within 8V2 miles of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , at the Miami Villages- Commencing the 8th of May, and Concluding the 2d day of June
                    1795—.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        The want of an Interpreter versed in the English language, was a great obstacle to my
                                    obtaining that perfect Knowledge of the Country I passed thro', which my
                                    wishes anticipated, and which it was my desire to embrace but the observations I
                                    have made of the navigation, waters, soil and villages, are firm facts established
                                    in my own mind, as Just, and I hope will prove to be so- To make a Calculation of
                                    distance from the Information of frenchmen trading from Post 
                                        Vincennes
                                     to the Miami villages, would be productive of error and Confusion,
                                    because they have been accustomed to number their leagues by the pipes they smoak-,
                                    and thus have lengthened or shortened the distance as their appetite for smoking has
                                    arisen- was I to give an opinion of the distance by the mode in which I travelled, I
                                    should compute it at 350 miles at the utmost.
                        In examining with strict attention, and informing myself from those who have
                                    frequently ascended and descended the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , I conceive myself right in concluding that no obstacle can interfere
                                    to obstruct the ascension of Boats sufficient to contain a Burden of from 15 to
                                    20,000 weight as far as the Thipacanos or rather two or three miles above it, where
                                    a high and Commanding piece of Ground offers for the erection of a post and store
                                    houses, and from whence large perogues may be loaded, and ascend with little
                                    difficulty to the Petite riviere
                           8 at all
                                    Seasons of the year, and indeed up it until you arrive at the Marsh or Bog which is distant from 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                     about 16 miles-9 Here a difficulty would arise
                                    unless the fresh had taken place prior to your ascension, and then, all obstacles
                                    would be removed, and an easy ascension offer as far 
                              
                                 7
                                            
                                                Vincennes
                                            .
                              
                                 8 Little River. The Portage between the Wabash and
                                            Maumee river systems had its Wabash terminus at Little River.
                              
                                 9 Bodley felt that boats "of almost any
                                            size" could negotiate the Wabash from 
                                                Vincennes
                                             to the mouth of the 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                            , at any season; and from thence to the portage, after some
                                            trees across the river were cleared off and two small rapids repaired, boats
                                            of fifty foot keel could navigate between the first of March and mid-June.
                                            Bodley to Hamtramck, May 20, 1795, 
                                                Wayne
                                             MSS., XLI, 10.
                           
                                     as the portage- The Current of the Wabash is
                                    rather gentle than rapid, (the river remarkably serpentine) and has all the
                                    advantages of depth of water,10 except where you encounter a few
                                    rapids, the principal of which commences at the distance of 1 League above the mouth
                                    of the Eel river and is by far the strongest of any in the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , however, the obstruction at this place might be easily obviated by the
                                    removal of a few loose rocks which would open a passage for Boats, and would not
                                    employ more than 10 men for two hours- for it is not so much the rocks as the force
                                    of Current which makes the ascension difficult, and the distance the not very long,
                                    is attended with a small share of labor to pass thro- A few other rapids of no very
                                    great consequence present themselves, but as they can in no way be obstacles to the
                                    ascension of such Perogues as are generally used in the 
                                        Wabash
                                     I shall not particularly remark the whole of them, a Shallow one
                                    however (which the French deem to be 3 miles in length, but which is not in my
                                    opinion more than half the distance) employs as great a share of time in passing
                                    thro, as any other on the river it being extremely shallow,- When I ascended the
                                    water was very low, the Boat I had with me was 63 feet long, and Built to Bear a
                                    Burden of 6000 Wt- I however found at the above place not so much difficulty, as I
                                    was taught to believe I should have to encounter because I immediately discovered a
                                    Channel might be made, by removing of the small loose rocks, which here and there I
                                    found it necessary to do- a very slight fresh would be sufficient to make the
                                    ascension easy- about 12 miles below this you meet with a fall of water of 12
                                    Inches, the Channel of which at low Water is immediately in the Centre, and the
                                    force of Current violent but the distance you have to ascend is so short, that the
                                    labor in effecting it is very trifling- The Variety of handsome streams which empty
                                    themselves into the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , and which are ever ready with their waters to assist your ascension,
                                    greatly add to the Beauty of the Country and gives a luxuriance 
                              
                                 10 Bodley reported that from 
                                                Terre Haute
                                             to Ouiatenon, the river is about two hundred yards wide, the
                                            channel about six feet deep, "& the Current easy";
                                            from Ouiatenon to the Tippecanoe River, about one hundred and seventy-five
                                            yards wide, about five feet deep, "& gentle
                                            Current"; from the Tippecanoe to the Eel River, about one hundred
                                            and fifty yards wide, four or five feet deep; from the Eel to the Salamonie
                                            River, from one hundred to one hundred fifty yards wide, four feet deep; and
                                            from the Salamonie to the Little River, about one hundred yards wide.
                                            Bodley, "Observations," 
                                                Wayne
                                             MSS., XLI, 62.
                           
                                     to the Scene, which is only felt by an admirer
                                    of the works of nature- the principal ones are the Bruet11
                                    (which is 27 miles from Terrote)12 Racoon Creek13 21 miles from Bruet- the River d Erablieries or Sugar tree river14 10 miles from Racoon creek- the Little 
                                        Vermillion
                                    
                           15 6 miles above d Erablieries-16 the Great 
                                        Vermillion
                                    
                           17 8 miles above the Lesser- La petite Riviere at
                                    the Weaw18 about 61 miles 
                              
                                 11 Brewyet Creek, Ibid.
                                            Riviere a la Brouette, Thomas Hutchins, A New Map of the
                                                    Western
                                                
                                                    Terre Haute
                                                 in section 3, township 13, north, range 9 west of the North American Union… (
                                                    Philadelphia
                                                , 1823).
                                            Riviere a la Brouette, Thomas Hutchins, A New Map of the
                                                    Western Parts of 
                                          Virginia, Pennsylvania, Maryland
                                        and 
                                                        North Carolina
                                                    ; Comprehending the River 
                                                        Ohio
                                                    , and all the Rivers, which fall into
                                                it… (
                                                    London
                                                , 1778). Wade mentions the Hutchins map and probably used it
                                                on this expedition. Errors are frequent in the upper Wabash regions but
                                                the map is of some value to the present study as it represents a
                                                composite of the best geographical knowledge to that date (1778).
                                            Browellett's Creek flows from the northwest into the Wabash
                                                above 
                                                    Terre Haute
                                                 in section 3, township 13, north, range 9 west of the
                                                second principal meridian. [E. T. Cox], Map of 
                                                        Vigo County
                                                    , Indiana (Compiled for the Seventh Annual Report
                                                of E. T. Cox, State Geologist, [
                                                    Indianapolis
                                                ], 1875).
                              
                              
                                 12
                                            
                                                Terre Haute
                                            , sometimes referred to in contemporary documents as High
                                            Ground. See footnote 28 below.
                              
                                 13 Big Raccoon Creek flows from the southeast into the
                                            Wabash above 
                                                Terre Haute
                                             in section 11, township 15, north, range 9 west of the second
                                            principal meridian. B. C. Hobbs, Map of 
                                                    Parke County
                                                , Indiana (Drawn… for the 3d and 4th Annual
                                            Reports of… E. T. Cox, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1872).
                              
                                 14 Sugar Creek flows from the northeast into the
                                            Wabash above 
                                                Terre Haute
                                             in section 12 township 16 north, range 9 west of the second
                                            principal meridian. Collett, Map of Vermillion County.
                              
                              
                                 15 Little Vermillion River flows from the west into
                                            the Wabash above 
                                                Terre Haute
                                             in or near section 30, township 17, north, range 8 west of the
                                            second principal meridian. John Collett, Map of Vermillion
                                                County, Indiana (Drawn… for the First Annual Report
                                            of… E. T. Cox, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1869).
                              
                                 16 Bodley reported these four streams to exceed 25-30
                                            yards in width. Bodley, "Observations," 
                                                Wayne
                                             MSS., XLI, 62.
                              
                                 17 Big Vermillion River flows from the north into the
                                            Wabash above 
                                                Terre Haute
                                             in section 33, township 18, north, range 9 west of the second
                                            principal meridian. Collett, Map of Vermillion County.
                              
                              
                                 18 "La petite Riviere at the Weaw"
                                            is Big Wea Creek which flows into the Wabash from the southeast in section
                                            27, township 23, north, range 5 west of the second principal meridian. The
                                            principal village of the Wea was located here. T. C. Hopkins, Geological Map of Indiana (Compiled for the 28th Annual Report of
                                            W. S. Blatchley, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1901-1903), Frederick W: Hodge, ed., Handbook of
                                                American Indians North of 
                                                    Mexico
                                                
                                  (2 parts, 
                                                Washington
                                            , 1907-1910), part 2, 174. Hutchins also indicates a
                                            "Petite Riviere" but locates it further down the Wabash
                                            than Wade here describes it. Hutchins, A New Map.
                              
                           
                                     from the Great 
                                        Vermillion
                                    - the Riviere a la Panse19 about 12 miles from the
                                    Weaw (an elegant stream- The Thipecanos20 about 6 miles above La
                                    panse- the L Anguille or Eel river,21 is distant from the Petit
                                        Rocher22 two Leagues, and from Eel river to the great rapid
                                    is one league- the Petit Rocher is calculated to be distant from the Ouiattanon 18
                                    Leagues- from the Great rapid to the Calumet23 on the South side
                                    is four leagues here is a rapid but not a shallow one, at about one League from the
                                    Calumet is an Island, in ascending this part of the river you keep on the north side
                                    from this Island to the Massissinuai24 is five Leagues another
                                    rapid- from Massissinuai to the Salamanie river25 is 10 Leagues,
                                    and from the Salamanie to the Little river is five Leagues, and from the mouth of
                                    Little river26 to the Portage 
                              
                                 19"Hutchins likewise labels it
                                            "Riviere a la Panse." Hutchins, A New
                                            Map. This is probably the present Wild Cat Creek which flows from the
                                            east into the Wabash above 
                                                Lafayette
                                             in or near section 3, township 23, north, range 4 west of the
                                            second principal meridian. Hopkins, Geological Map of
                                            Indiana.
                              
                              
                                 20 Tippecanoe River flows from the north into the
                                            Wabash above 
                                                Lafayette
                                             in section 17, township 24, north, range 3 west of the second
                                            principal meridian. Hopkins, Geological Map of Indiana.
                                            Bodley adds that the Tippecanoe is approximately sixty yards wide.
                                            "About 1/2 mile up the river was an old village in a Prarie, about
                                            200 acres is now under cultivation by the Potawatomy & Wyaw Indians,
                                            the Land is rich handsomely situate & well watered by standing
                                            springs- this is the most delightful place for a Farm I ever
                                            beheld-" Bodley, "Observations," 
                                                Wayne
                                             MSS., XLI, 62.
                              
                                 21 Eel River flows from the northwest into the Wabash
                                            at 
                                                Logansport
                                             in or near section 36, township 27, north, range 1 east of the
                                            second principal meridian. Hopkins, Geological Map of
                                            Indiana.
                              
                              
                                 22 It is somewhat uncertain as to what stream Wade
                                            here has in mind. The Hutchins map, which he carried, indicates a
                                            "Riv. de Petit Rocher" flowing into the Wabash from the
                                            north between the Tippecanoe and the Eel. There is also a Rock Creek
                                            entering the Wabash from the east in or near section 18, township 26, north,
                                            range 1 west of the second principal meridian. Hutchins, A New
                                                Map; Hopkins, Geological Map of Indiana.
                              
                              
                                 23 Calumet or Big Pipe Creek flows from the southeast
                                            into the Wabash above 
                                                Logansport
                                             in section 32, township 27, north, range 3 east of the second
                                            principal meridian. Hopkins, Geological Map of Indiana.
                              
                              
                                 24 Mississinewa River flows from the southeast into
                                            the Wabash above 
                                                Logansport
                                             in section 25, township 27, north, range 4 east of the second
                                            principal meridian. Ibid.
                              
                              
                                 25 Salamonie River flows from the southeast into the
                                            Wabash above 
                                                Logansport
                                             in section 34, township 28, north, range 7 east of the second
                                            principal meridian. Ibid.
                              
                              
                                 26 This juncture of the Little River with the Wabash
                                            is sometimes called the forks of the 
                                                Wabash
                                            . The mouth of the Little is in section 16, township 28, north,
                                            range 9 east of the second principal meridian. Ibid.
                              
                           
                                     is 12 Leagues- this Calculation as I have
                                    before observed is made from the number of pipes smoked, and the Leagues sometimes
                                    short and sometimes Long, this mode of measurement must of course beget error I have
                                    therefore ventured to limit the distance at the number of miles mentioned within and
                                    do not conceive it to be more- No doubt can possibly arise of the practicability of
                                    ascending with heavy laden Boats- two or three miles above the Thipecanos at any and
                                    at all times of the year, except when impeded by Ice- The Bed of the river is
                                    Generally Gravel and hard sand as far up as L'Anguille, from thence
                                    commences a rocky bottom, here and there smooth and solid, but excellent for poling-
                                    I have confined my observations of the navigation of the Wabash principally to that
                                    period when the water is supposed to be in a low State, and when it would be
                                    necessary to employ perogues in lieu of larger crafts, attention should be paid to
                                    the length of the Boats, because in passing thro the willows (as they are called)
                                    about 4 miles from the portage, the river is narrow (but deep) remarkably crooked,
                                    and will not admit of a Boats passing at low water, whose length exceeds 42 or 43
                                    feet- indeed shorter would be better say 35 feet at high water the difficulty
                                    ceases, for Boats of any length or Burthen may ascend- My Perogues being so very
                                    long, reduced me to the necessity of leaving her, at the foot of the marsh, and
                                    employing shorter ones- I can only Judge of the nature of the soil from the
                                    observations I made at the several places I halted- so far as I could Judge it is
                                    rich to a very great degree, and abounds with a variety of fine Strait
                                    timber," The Situations which strike the eye most forcibly are first the
                                    Terrote calculated to be half way from Fort Knox to Ouiattanon- Here are the remains
                                    of an old French fort, which has been destroyed many years past this Ground, the
                                    well suited in many respects for the erection of a small work, is still too short a
                                    distance and its Banks steep, as to make it very fatiguing to obtain water-28 Several other very elegant 
                              
                                 27 According to Bodley, from 
                                                Vincennes
                                             to 
                                                Terre Haute
                                             "the Land [is] fertile, well watered, a great many
                                            Praries & some good woods, the growth Hickory, Oaks, Walnut, Elm,
                                            Buckeye & Sugar tree, a number of handsome situations-"
                                            Bodley, "Observations," 
                                                Wayne
                                             MSS., XLI, 62.
                              
                                 28 Bodley says, "The High Ground, is an
                                            extensive body of Rich Land on the South east side of the river, part of
                                            which is Prarie very 
                           
                                     spots offer between the Terrote and the Great
                                    Vermillion better fitted to make handsome farms, than for the erection of
                                        fortifications-29 the Banks of the Great Vermillion afford
                                    you Ground sufficiently high to look over a large extent of Country, but its being
                                    detached from the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , with low Ground in front subject to overflow, rather militates against
                                    it as a place of defence, unless you were to ascend the Vermillion about one quarter
                                    of a mile-30 below the Vermillion near one mile and on the south
                                    side of the Wabash there is a Hill of as rich coal as the earth
                                    ever afforded, and in great abundance, a vein of Iron ore, and another of Lead are
                                    said to run thro the hill, this Hill the Savages considered of so much value, that
                                    they forbad the French at the Post to carry off the Coal- the same Hill is laid down
                                    in Hutchins map-31 about 6 miles from the mouth of Vermillion
                                    you pass a fertile piece of Ground, immediately on the Banks of the river, with the
                                    advantages of a number of fine springs and an excellent quarry of Stone, its
                                    situation is eminent, and the country around abounding in Game- Between this place
                                    and the Weaw you pass a number of Beautiful situations, whose value are enhanced by
                                    a multiplicity of never failing springs32 The Weaw next claims
                                    your attention and is deservedly noticed as the pride of the 
                                        Wabash
                                    - But the high ground being too far from the river, and the ground in
                                    front being subject to feel the effects of a severe fresh,33 a
                                    decided preference 
                              fertile, in which some of the Wabash Indians are raising corn this Season-
                                            Here is an elegant situation for a Fort, the Ground is High & the
                                            assent gradual from the water edge, for this distance the river is above two
                                            hundred yards wide & in no place is seldom less than ten feet water
                                            in the Channel, the Current is very gentle." Ibid.
                              
                              
                                 29 "Between those places," according
                                            to Bodley, "the Land is good, & several handsome creeks
                                            come in…" Ibid.
                              
                              
                                 30 "The Vermillion river," Bodley
                                            comments, "is about 70 yds wide… [at the mouth] has been
                                            an old village & an extensive body of Clear'd ground- the
                                            land immedeately on the Wabash is low & at times overflows- about
                                            three hundred yards from the river is high ground which extends up the
                                            Vermillion for several miles—" Ibid.
                              
                              
                                 31 Bodley describes the same feature as "a
                                            high Hill of stone Coal. & to all appearance a great body of Iron
                                            Oar.-" Ibid. The Hutchins map indicates a
                                            "Coal Hill" approximately opposite the mouth of the Big 
                                                Vermillion
                                            . Hutchins, A New Map.
                              
                              
                                 32 Bodley gives additional information. "From
                                            the Vermillion to the Ouiattanon Village… the soil is shallow,
                                            greater part Prarie, the woods is but lightly timbered-" Bodley,
                                            "Observations," 
                                                Wayne
                                             MSS., XLI, 62.
                              
                                 33 Bodley elaborates on this. "The old
                                            Village on the S.E. side stood on low ground on the verge of the river-
                                            about 300 yds back is a high
                           
                                     for elegance of Situation, fertility of Soil,
                                    goodness of timber close Connection with the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , numbers of Springs, and the advantages of Game make it every way
                                    preferable to any must be given to an eminence about one mile above, which, Spot
                                    below or above it for private improvement-34 But should the
                                    navigation of the Wabash ever call forth the attention of the public- and should it
                                    be found necessary to erect a work and Store houses, for the protection and
                                    reception of public stores, it would certainly be better to ascend as high as
                                    possible with your large Boats, It would therefore remark a situation about 2 or 3
                                    miles above the Thipecanos, which is every way calculated from its elevation, for
                                    the erection of such works as might be deemed necessary, it has a large quantity of
                                    fine timber, is on the very margin of the river, and at the end of the navigation
                                    for Boats bearing a heavy Burden and of large sizes-35 Here
                                    would be the Spot, where it would be necessary to employ perogues- and the distance
                                    from thence to the portage does not exceed 56 Leagues (French Calculation)- after
                                    you leave the marsh or Bog noticed in these remarks you will find at all times a
                                    sufficiency of water for Perogues-36
                        
                        The fourth day after my departure from Fort 
                                        Knox
                                    , I 
                              Hill on the Top of which is an extensive Prarie about 10 miles in Length
                                            & three in Width On the N.W. side was the old French Village it
                                            stood in a large Prarie part of which overflow's at times, the soil
                                            is fertile- here about 300 acres has been Cultivated by the
                                            Indians-" Ibid.
                              
                              
                                 34 Bodley agrees with this description.
                                            "About one mile above the old village on the N.W. side, is high
                                            ground & some beautiful Springs this would be an elegable situation
                                            for a Fort, Timber for building is convenient & of an excellent
                                            Quality-" Ibid.
                              
                              
                                 35 Bodley adds that "to this place Boats that
                                            will carry Twenty thousand weight may come at any Season-" Ibid.
                              
                              
                                 36 More detailed comments on the Little River are
                                            given in Bodley's account: "The Little river at the mouth
                                            runs about SW. & is about 40 yds wide the Wabash runs near West
                                            & is about 100 yds wide- "From the mouth of Little river
                                                to the Portage is about 30 Miles thro' a flat, low country
                                                & for some distance from the river is generally covered with
                                                water- for six miles from the mouth the Current is very Swift &
                                                in some places strong rapids tho' generally composed of Loose
                                                    Stones; in those rapids the water is sometimes not
                                                more than one foot deep- from the head of the Rapid to the Portage the
                                                wa[ter] is from three to Ten feet water at all times, the river is from
                                                Ten to twenty yards wide & very Crooked- about three miles below
                                                the portage is a thicket & Pond, the Channel is entirely grown
                                                up with willows, but may be easily Cleared- For three months in the
                                                year, large Boats or perogues which will carry Ten thousand Weight can
                                                come to the Portage-" Ibid.
                                 
                              
                           
                                     fell in with a Hunting Camp of 8 or 10 Indians,
                                    where I Breakfasted, was treated with friendship, and received from them a Carcase
                                    of Venison-
                        The Seventh day brought me to a village of 22 families of Wabash Indians, detached
                                    about 3/4 of a mile from the Bank of the river, in a very handsome 
                                        Prairie
                                    , altho I could have passed them without difficulty, yet Conceiving that
                                    my halting to visit them, would probably afford them some satisfaction and evince to
                                    them the confidence that was placed in their good intentions I deemed it proper to
                                    walk to their village, and offer my respects to their Chiefs- who were five in
                                    Number this visit- the first that had been paid by an American officer created no
                                    small share of surprize, and evident tokens of satisfaction- the customary
                                    ceremonies being over, I informed the Chiefs of my intention to ascend the Wabash to
                                    the portage, that as I had heard of their being established so near to the river, I
                                    thought proper to visit them and shake them by the hands, they returned me thanks
                                    for themselves and in behalf of their tribe, and requested very strongly that I
                                    would not leave them until the next day, as it was their wish to speak to me in the
                                    course of the day, this I was compelled to consent to as well by policy, as by a
                                    wish to hear what they had to say, about 4 O Clock in the Afternoon, A messenger was
                                    dispatched from the village to my Boat to inform me, that the Chiefs had assembled,
                                    & would be glad to see me- I met them, and after a short time, the Speaker,
                                    opened his harangue with an assurance of the friendship of the Wabash and Kickapoos
                                    tribes towards the Americans, observing that my visiting their Country with
                                    confidence in them, was a convincing proof that the Hatchet was about to be buried,
                                    and the path which had been for so long a time Covered with Blood, was now going to
                                    be strewed with flowers- that I might be certain of passing thro their tribes
                                    unmolested, as it was their firm wish (for the truth of which they appealed to the
                                    Great Spirit) to hold fast the chain of friendship with the Americans, as an
                                    evidence of which, they begged me to forward to the Commander in Chief two strings
                                    of wampum, which they presented me with- and concluded with informing me, that, as
                                    they had but Just situated themselves on that spot, and were wholly destitute  of corn to raise a crop, they begged I would
                                    furnish them with a few Bushels to plant and some Tobacco to smoke, and disperse any
                                    bad vapours, which might be around them-My Interpreter having fortunately a few
                                    Bushels of Corn, I Borrowed and presented them with three Bushels, some Tobacco, and
                                    some salt- for which they were extremely thankful- Not being on any public business
                                    I did not conceive myself authorized to say more than was barely sufficient to
                                    assure them, that the 
                                        United States
                                     were sincere in their wish for peace, and that if it was not permanent,
                                    the fault would not rest with them, but with those bad Indians, who would prefer
                                    listening to the dictates of an Evil Spirit, sooner than the mild voice of the
                                    harbinger of peace- thus we parted- the 9th day I Breakfasted at a Hunting Camp,
                                    consisting of two families, where I exchanged Tobacco and Corn for vension The
                                    twelfth day I halted to take Breakfast, on a very handsome piece of ground, and met
                                    with two families of Kickapoo Indians moving to the Weaw- from whom I purchased
                                    venison- On the 17th day fell in with 2 Squaws and 3 Children procured fresh meat
                                    from them- the same day met One Indian with his Squaw returning from a Hunt, and at
                                    some distance above them overtook 3 Indians and one Squaw- this day which was the
                                    24th Ulto brought me to the Thipecanos- prior to my arrival at this place- I was
                                    received with such Civility and attention as served to convince me of the difference
                                    between the disposition of the Wabash and Potowatamies Indians- for the latter I
                                    found to be much under the influence of the British, insolent-haughty- and
                                    domineering- holding forth the power and Consequence of the British, declaring their
                                    determination to exact from every Boat which ascended such proportion of presents as
                                    they deemed proper, and boasting of the quantity they received from Great Britain it
                                    was here that a rascal who had been captured by Captain Gibson," and lately
                                    released by the Commander in Chief, had the insolence to hold in his possession one
                                    of my mens rifles, telling me that he had been held in Irons for a long time, had
                                    been cruelly treated by the Americans- had lost his Rifle when taken, and was
                                    determined to hold the one he then had, to replace that he had 
                              
                                 37 Probably Captain Alexander Gibson of the Fourth
                                            Sub-Legion. Heitman, Historical Register, I, 453.
                           
                                     lost altho I argued to his Chiefs with all the
                                    mildness I was master of- it had no effect, the fellow persevered, and finding the
                                    Chiefs, were only Cyphers in the scale of Consequence, I was obliged to direct my
                                    Interpreter to tell them, that this instance of bad Conduct, was no evidence of
                                    their intention to preserve harmony and friendship with us, that if they expected a
                                    large present from me for the restoration of the Rifle, they would be mistaken, for
                                    that I was determined to have it before I starte[d] let the event be what it might.
                                    This Language staggered them & I was told, that if I would give the late
                                    prisoner one Bottle of Whiskey he would give up the Rifle- to this I objected,
                                    because I Judged it would be establishing a precedent not only improper but
                                    impolitic, and therefore insisted on the Rifles being delivered without any Bargain,
                                    and if I thought proper afterwards to make a present, I would do it- accordingly it
                                    was given up I then gave them a Bottle of whisky and left them-38 I had not proceeded more than one mile before I was hailed by a party from
                                    the same place- halting they Joined me, and made a request for some whisky- I urged
                                    to them the impropriety of their Conduct- but in short all my persuasion was of no
                                    avail- I had no alternative but refusing them, and subjecting myself to be insulted
                                    by them (which could produce no good Consequences) or granting their request and
                                    move off with their good wishes- the latter I preferred, and gave
                                    them one gallon and an half- they left me Contented- the next day I Joined another
                                    party of the same nation but of different disposition probably owing to their not
                                    being in force sufficient to oppose me-
                        The 26th A Hunting party of Kickapoo and Potowatamies overtook me with a large
                                    quantity of Peltry which they requested me to take across the river- they did not
                                    consist of more than 4 men- one women [sic]- one child, and a
                                    white Boy of the name of James Flinn about 14 years of age- he had been taken when a
                                    Child below the mouth of Blue Stone river by the Shawanese and sold to the
                                    Potowatamies, as 
                              
                                 38 Bodley had a similar experience with the same band
                                            of Indians at the mouth of the 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                            . He was afraid that "unless they are Checked by some
                                            means [there] will be a Tax on every Boat which ascends or Decends the
                                            river-" Bodley to 
                                                Wayne
                                            , July 12, 1795, 
                                                Wayne
                                             MSS., XLI, 61.
                           
                                     he appeared more anxious to Continue with the
                                    Indians than with his own Countrymen, and as I expected they would deliver him up at
                                    the treaty, I made no propositions for his restoration- a Short distance above the
                                    Massissinouai arrived at a village of Miami Indians where I met with Nancy the Young
                                    Squaw taken by Wm Wells- this village consisted of 9 houses situate immediately on
                                    the Bank of the river, on very bad ground, but considered only as a temporary
                                    establishment- dined here- and was treated friendly- Saw two or three whites, who
                                    were so much attached to the Indians that they would not converse in English altho
                                    my Interpreter assured me they understood it- Above this place one mile I halted and
                                    Continuing a few minutes was Joined by Monsieur Richardville39
                                    with Nine Canoes on his way to establish a village at the Massissinouai- a few
                                    families lived at this place, who, together with those who arrived with Richardville
                                    supplied me with Turkeys and venison and tho exceeding 100 in number never requested
                                    one article from me, but behaved with all the friendship and Civility imaginable,
                                    owing principally I imagine to the influence Richardville has over them-after
                                    leaving them, I fell in with no other parties, until I arrived at the portage where
                                    I found several families of 
                                        Delaware
                                    , preparing to descend the 
                                        Wabash
                                    - their vicinity to the Garrison of 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                     and their dependence upon it for provision, rendered my situation safe
                                    and free from trouble, Here I remained one night, and the next, started and arrived
                                    at 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                     about 11 O Clk making the whole of my Journey to 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                     from Fort Knox equal to 25 days, But it must be observed that I could
                                    have accomplished it several days sooner, but for my detention with the Indians, my
                                    frequent halting at early periods of the day to examine particular Spots- and the
                                    necessity I was under of opening my Stores to prevent the Bad effects of several
                                    severe rains- Certain I am that the ascension of the Wabash to the Portage may be
                                    compleated in fifteen days at most when the Water is in a Middling state-
                        The names of the Potowatamies Chiefs at the Thipecanos are La Masse and La Bass or
                                    Bennac and La Blau or 
                              
                                 39 John B. Richardville (Peshewah) succeeded Little
                                            Turtle as leader of the Miami Indians. Hodge, Handbook,
                                            part 2, 235.
                           
                                     Bennac-40 the former is an
                                    Insolent deceitful Scoundrel, much Swayed I conceive by British influence and
                                    British Gold-41
                        
                        J Wade
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  40 The words "and La Bass or Bennac," and "and
                        La Blau or Bennac" occur at the end of one mansucript page and at the beginning of
                        another, respectively. Though the script indicates otherwise, Wade may have meant these to be
                        the same, repeating the last word of one page as the first word of the succeeding page as
                        frequently occurs in manuscripts of the period.
               
                  41 Bodley's estimate was also a negative one. "From the
                        number of Horses those Rascals have in their possession & the number of Prisoner[s] they
                        have taken I am convinced they have done more mischief on our Frontier Settlements than any
                        other party-" Bodley to 
                            Wayne
                        , July 12, 1795, 
                            Wayne
                         MSS., XLI, 61.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               A Stillness at 
                            Appomattox
                        . By Bruce Catton. (
                  Garden
                        City, New York
               : Doubleday
                    & Company, 1953, pp. viii, 438. Bibliography and index. $5.00.)
            In this volume Bruce Catton concludes his notable history of the Army of the Potomac, begun in Mr. Lincoln's Army and carried forward in Glory Road.
                    The new volume is in effect the story of the last year of the Civil War in 
                        Virginia
                    , when the chief Union army, though still commanded by George Meade, moved under the
                    close direction of U. S. Grant, recently commissioned Lieutenant General and named General in Chief
                    on March 12, 1864.
            There is something of a gap between Catton's last two volumes. In Glory
                    Road Catton said, "the Army of the Potomac went down to the Rapidan country and went
                    into camp to rest and refit before taking up the fight again." That was in the early days
                    of August, 1863, and the autumn actually saw much marching and maneuvering by Meade and Lee, both of
                    whose armies were diminished by forces sent to the 
                        Chattanooga
                     theater. Though no great battle was fought, there were several sharp clashes, in some
                    of which the Federals were the winners. A few days after 
                        Lincoln
                     made his 
                        Gettysburg
                     address—which is the scene with which Glory Road
                    ends—Meade crossed the Rapidan River and deployed in front of Lee's position
                    along Mine Run, only to quickly lose heart and return to his camps. After the great drama at 
                        Gettysburg
                    , the fall operations were of course anti-climax. But some of the moves have military
                    interest and they put in sharp contrast the leadership of Lee and Meade. The high command in 
                        Washington
                     was much displeased with Meade, who even had to defend himself from his wife. Nor could
                    the Mine Run fiasco have made the men in the ranks feel very proud, and the thinking and reaction of
                    the soldiers are elsewhere featured by Catton.
            The new volume, however, begins before the coming of Grant to the East, and Catton describes at some
                    length General Kilpatrick's cavalry raid in late-February, 1864. Its object was to free
                    Federal prisoners in 
                        Richmond
                     and distribute copies of 
                        Lincoln
                    's proclamation promising amnesty to Confederate citizens who would return to
                    their allegiance to the 
                        United States
                    . From papers found on the body of  Colonel
                    Dahlgren, who was one of the Federal casualties, there grew ugly charges that the Federals intended
                    to burn and sack the city and murder Jefferson Davis and his cabinet. There has always been
                    controversy about the incident and Catton leaves it unresolved with the statement "the
                    papers seem to have been tampered with," in order to make the harsh accusation.
            The story of the campaign that began on May 4, which was without precedent for the continuity of the
                    fighting and the severity of the losses, has been often told. But no one has described it more
                    interestingly and more graphically than Catton, and even those who are closely familiar with it will
                    read his pages with profit and pleasure. While the soldiers who did the actual fighting are again
                    much in Catton's mind, strategy and tactics are not neglected. There is a good discussion
                    of why Grant chose the overland route and it is made clear that he pressed the fighting in order to
                    make it impossible for Lee to detach troops to aid Joe Johnston in opposing Sherman's
                    advance into 
                        Georgia
                    . Too often Sherman's operation has been contrasted with the heavy and
                    continuous fighting in 
                        Virginia
                    , as if Sherman's move was not merely a part of a single whole. As General J.
                    F. C. Fuller made abundantly clear in his The Generalship of Ulysses S. Grant,
                    Sherman was merely delivering the rear attack, and he could not succeed unless no part of
                    Lee's army was able to join the opposition.
            Grant was of course in hopes he could destroy Lee in the field, and at Spotsylvania the latter had a
                    narrow escape. The terrible fighting there is well revealed by Catton, who also describes clearly
                    how timidity, misunderstanding, and bungling on the part of subordinates kept Grant from taking 
                        Petersburg
                     on June 15, after one of the most amazing feats in military history—the
                    crossing of the James River. For some three days Lee simply did not know where his adversary was.
                    Close though it was to 
                        Richmond
                    , the Army of the Potomac had suddenly disappeared, to reappear after crossing a river
                    half a mile wide and ninety feet deep. In concluding his discussion of the failure to take 
                        Petersburg
                     on the fifteenth and succeeding days, Catton quotes Ropes, who said, "the
                    blame of the failure to take 
                        Petersburg
                     must rest with our generals, not with our army."
            
            The statement by Ropes well absolves the men in the ranks. But the much more recent judgment of
                    Fuller, who looked at military operations and generalship with an understanding that far exceeded
                    that of Ropes, is necessary for a balanced judgment. Speaking of Grant, Fuller says:
                    "Nothing unhinges him, or weakens his faith in himself and in final victory. He soars above
                    his subordinates, forgetting their mistakes so that he may waste not a moment in shouldering aside
                    their blunders and getting on with his task…. Though the means vary, his idea remains
                    constant, he holds fast to Lee, so that Sherman's maneuver may continue."
            But Lee did detach troops early in June, after he had been forced back upon 
                        Richmond
                    , sending Early, not to help oppose Sherman, but to aid in countering Hunter's
                    advance up the Shenandoah Valley. After Hunter had been stopped at Lynchburg and had retired to the 
                        Ohio
                     River via the Kanawha Valley, Early marched down the Shenandoah Valley. But, unlike
                    Stonewall, he crossed into 
                        Maryland
                    , defeated a small force under Lew Wallace, and staged the oft-discussed threat to 
                        Washington
                    .
            After following affairs at 
                        Petersburg
                     to the badly managed attack after the explosion of the mine on July 30, Catton turns
                    back to the early days of the month, when the threat to the Federal capital was beginning to
                    develop. His reader can well feel himself one of the civilians on Seventh Street happily watching
                    the bronzed men of Wright's Sixth Corps marching northward from the Potomac wharves where
                    they had just arrived from 
                        Petersburg
                    . And they were not an hour too soon, for though the intrenchments of the city were
                    strong, they were lightly held by a nondescript force, and Early was beginning to press against
                    them.
            Then comes the story of Sheridan's operation in the Shenandoah, which cleaned it out as a
                    source of supplies for the Confederates as well as a route for threats upon 
                        Washington
                    . Inevitably one asks about the battle of 
                        Winchester
                     and "Sheridan's Ride," which some have found pleasure in
                    calling badly exaggerated. Says Catton, "Yet the legendary picture is close enough to
                    fact…." and he not only well buttresses his words, but makes the reader feel
                    that he too was fleeing the field of battle, when he heard the shout "Sheridan!
                    Sheridan!" and, reanimated, turned around to take part in the victory that followed.
            
            One cannot but wonder why Mr. Catton ends his book with Grant riding up to join Sheridan and other
                    officers waiting outside the McLean house at 
                        Appomattox
                    , and does not go into the little parlor where a great, historic scene soon followed. It
                    has some special interest for Hoosiers because the only Confederate officer waiting in the parlor
                    with Lee was Colonel Charles Marshall, who after his graduation from the University of 
                        Virginia
                     in 1849, taught mathematics at Indiana University for three years. While Grant
                    personally wrote the terms of surrender he submitted to Lee, it was Marshall who wrote the note of
                    acceptance to which the Confederate commander subscribed his signature. In his subsequent
                    description of events of that historic day, Marshall paid a great tribute to the officers of
                    Grant's army, saying they could not have behaved better if they had been taught by the
                    greatest actors how to play their parts, ending with the sentence: "They could not have
                    done better because they were and behaved as American soldiers; they loved their enemies and did
                    good to those who hated them."
            Catton treats very effectively Sheridan's handling of his cavalry that morning, and makes
                    the reader feel the drama of the arrival of Ord's infantry, hungry after an all night
                    march, and its deployment in front of the Confederate battle line, from which there then came a
                    white flag in acknowledgment that the end had come. Assuredly he could have done as well with the
                    scene within the McLean parlor. And stillness did not come until Grant quieted the guns that broke
                    out within the Union lines in a salute to victory.
            One must comment upon the maps. There is a good general map of the 
                        Virginia
                     theater, and the end papers give on a large scale the 
                        Petersburg
                     intrenchments, with one insert showing detail about the mine operation and another the
                    region around the Wilderness and Spotsylvania Court House. In the text there is a good map of the
                    Cold Harbor-
                        Petersburg
                     area; some battle diagrams would have been helpful.
            
               Indiana University Kenneth P. Williams
         
         
         
            
               Freedom, Loyalty, Dissent. By Henry Steele Commager. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1954, pp. ix, 155. $2.50.)
            This little volume of five essays by Professor Commager combines two features, which unhappily one
                    does not always find together: the book is both one that ought to be read and at the same time one
                    that is eminently readable.
            Briefly, Professor Commager's thesis is two-fold: (1) freedom is a necessity in a society
                    such as the American; and (2) the necessity of freedom for America may be defended on purely
                    "practical and pragmatic" (p. vii) grounds. And why enunciate such a thesis at
                    this time? Obviously, because freedom is seriously threatened in contemporary America. And it is
                    threatened not only by a whole host of demagogues whose stock in trade are witch-hunts, Redbaitings,
                    and a constant hue and cry against intellectuals. In addition, it seems to be even more seriously
                    threatened by the apparent indifference and unconcern on the part of the American people generally
                    toward those attacks on the very freedoms that one would suppose were fundamental and essential to
                    the whole American way of life.
            Such being the challenge which Commager thinks of himself as facing, his defense of his thesis quite
                    naturally proceeds neither by way of massive historical documentation nor by involved philosophical
                    analysis, but rather by a very direct, hard-hitting line of argument. Thus in his first essay,
                    "The Necessity of Freedom," he argues simply that freedom is the only thing that
                    works or produces results. It's all right, if one wants to, to argue for the necessity of
                    freedom on legal or constitutional grounds, or perhaps even on the more high-flown, idealistic
                    grounds of natural rights and the dignity of man. But Professor Commager prefers to rely simply on
                    the down-to-earth consideration that to discourage "independence of thought,
                    non-conformity, and dissent," etc., just does not pay. For instance, consider the
                    consequences of the recent attempt by the Board of Regents at the University of 
                        California
                     to impose a test of conformity upon members of the faculty. The whole institution was
                    thrown into an uproar, the faculty was immeasurably weakened by dismissals, resignations, and
                    refusals of appointments, and the reputation and standard of the University declined throughout the
                    country. And what was gained? Absolutely nothing.
            
            Or consider Senator McCarthy's assault upon the State Department during the Truman
                    administration. What did it accomplish? It greatly weakened American prestige abroad. It undermined
                    the confidence of the American people in their government. It so subjected the department to the
                    harassment of investigation that it found it almost impossible to carry on its regular work. It made
                    it increasingly difficult for the department to recruit first-rate men for its jobs. And what were
                    the gains to offset all these injuries? There weren't any!
            Or consider, if you will, Nazi 
                        Germany
                     and 
                        Japan
                    , or the ante-bellum South in this country, or even contemporary Communist
                    Russia—in all these cases it is precisely "the suppression of criticism and
                    dissent and the insistence upon acquiescence and conformity" (p. 31) to which the greatest
                    weakness of these systems may be traced and which invariably bring about their ultimate dissolution
                    and downfall. In short, judged simply in terms of their practical consequences in history, the
                    suppression of freedom and the requirement of conformity just don't pay dividends.
            Moreover, it is this same theme that one finds played with appropriate variations throughout the rest
                    of Commager's book. Thus in the second essay, "The Necessity of
                    Experimentation," Commager argues that it is not a clinging to fixed principles and
                    universally accepted standards that has made America great, but rather a non-conformist
                    determination to entertain new ideas, try out new schemes, and experiment with the unusual, the
                    untraditional, and the unhallowed.
            Likewise, in "Free Enterprise in Ideas," Commager alludes to the alleged problem
                    that supposedly confronts any society of reconciling the conflicting claims of liberty and security.
                    A pseudo-problem, Commager thinks, simply because there is no real conflict. And there is no real
                    conflict, simply because if one will but descend from the level of abstract principles to the level
                    of concrete cases, one will find over and over again that whenever a society in the interest of a
                    supposed security attempts to limit the freedom to teach or the freedom of the press or the freedom
                    of scientific investigation, the result will be not security, but rather the very insecurity that
                    comes from a failure to progress and advance.
            
            Then in an unusually effective chapter entitled "Guilt by Association?" Commager
                    shows with a wealth of concrete detail just what this doctrine of guilt by association has cost us
                    and may yet cost us—a doctrine that is "pernicious in principle, in application
                    and in consequences," that is "based on fear and suspicion, on ignorance and
                    bigotry, on arrogance and vanity," that is "designed not to save us or strengthen
                    us, but to subvert vital parts of our democracy and of our constitutional system" (p. 97).
            Finally, in "Who Is Loyal to America?" Professor Commager comes right out and
                    demands to know if we are going to permit the Rankins, the Bilbos, the Dirksens, the
                    D.A.R.’s, the American Legion, the N.A.M., the Hearsts, the McCormicks, etc., to
                    determine what is American and what is un-American, and consequently to say who is loyal and who is
                    disloyal to America. The prospect of such a thing may well cause us to shudder. But
                    Commager's point is not so much that it is these individuals and these groups who are
                    likely to determine our standards of loyalty, but rather that it is the very principle of equating
                    loyalty with conformity that is frightening and dangerous. For the whole tradition of America is one
                    of recognizing that loyalty is more often than not a matter of non-conformity rather than
                    conformity. Indeed, in Commager's own strong words, "True loyalty may require, in
                    fact, what appears to the naive to be disloyalty" (p. 146).
            Confronted with eloquence of such high order, to say nothing of the fact that what Commager says is
                    in large measure so frightening true, a reviewer may appear captious to raise any points in
                    criticism. And yet in reading Commager's stirring pages, one may wonder whether he is right
                    in insisting that the necessity of freedom for America is a necessity that need be based only on
                    what he would call "practical and pragmatic" considerations. Not that such
                    considerations are irrelevant. Far from it. Rather it is a question as to whether such
                    considerations are self-sufficient and can really stand alone. For suppose one grants that the
                    denial of freedom and the discouragement of dissent are having, and will continue to have,
                    disastrous consequences for our American society, just why is this so, and need it be so
                    necessarily? Now one can find a ready answer to this question if one accepts certain philosophical
                    principles as to the nature and  dignity of the human person, or
                    certain religious principles as to man's being made in the image of God. But Commager,
                    though he does not actually deny such principles, tends to dismiss them as largely unnecessary and
                    as smacking too much of the "idealistic," the "transcendental,"
                    and the "absolute" for his taste.
            Unfortunately, though, unless there are real standards of human worth and dignity, somehow inherent
                    in the very nature of things, Professor Commager's whole argument would appear to rest on
                    very shaky foundations indeed. For "disastrous consequences" then becomes a sadly
                    relative notion: what appears disastrous from our point of view may not appear so from the point of
                    view of a Hitler or a Stalin, and what in Professor Commager's eyes seems to constitute
                    social stagnation and stultification may in the eyes of a Senator McCarthy, say, be a sign of
                    genuine progress and advance.
            No, to meet the intellectual and moral crises of the present day, the somewhat naive pragmatic faith
                    of a William James or a Justice Holmes may no longer suffice; instead, appeal may have to be made to
                    men of somewhat sterner stuff in our Western tradition—a Plato or an Aristotle, perhaps
                    even an Aquinas or a Calvin.
            
               Indiana University Henry B. Veatch
         
         
            
               U. S. Grant and the American Military Tradition. By Bruce Catton. (
                        Boston
                    : Little, 
                        Brown
                     & Company, 1954, pp. x, 201. Bibliography and index. $3.00.)
            This unpretentious volume of less than two hundred pages has more than usual significance. It is the
                    first of a series, The Library of American Biography, edited by Oscar Handlin, 
                        Harvard
                     professor and Pulitzer Prize winner. Further, it makes a good climax for Bruce
                    Catton's studies of the Civil War, especially pertinent after A Stillness at 
                            Appomattox
                        . Also one finds in it a significant contribution to recent writings that are
                    recovering General Ulysses S. Grant from a tradition fixation that has discredited him.
            The writer keeps well in line with the objectives of the new biography series not to study
                    "the complete man, or the complete society but the points at which the two
                    interact."  Thus bounded, Catton sets the stage in Part
                    I which he entitles "End of the Golden Age." Movement is rapid. He takes the
                    reader to the Northwest for the initial setting and has no quarrel with the thesis that the American
                    tradition born of the Revolution channeled through the Northwest. He focuses upon the fundamentals:
                    freedom with its various ramifications and nationalism with the conviction, unique to the Northwest,
                    that without Union, America was without destiny. Catton is convincing enough and he is no
                    iconoclast.
            In this Northwest he develops Hiram Ulysses Grant, a product of it, and hence, a typical American.
                    His Yankee father—calculating, successful, boastful, and generally
                    unpopular—has little bearing upon the development of the young man. There may be a little
                    tradition tilt in Catton's idea of a typical Yankee. Basically, Grant belonged to the
                    characteristic population of the Northwest, mostly Southern in origin and Democratic in politics.
                    Grant had a happy childhood, never knew privation. Catton rediscovers Grant, the horseman, a
                    natural, the most skilled of America's generals, though tradition never associates him with
                    a mount. His military education was a product of his father's Yankee expediency. He had no
                    natural talent for the military but he became military; in that, he was the typical American.
            Incidents in Grant's life as a young lieutenant are cited when considered influential in
                    what he later became. He tried only once to do a little dress parade with such ridiculous results
                    that he lost all interest in gold braid. While stationed at 
                        St. Louis
                     he courted successfully Julia Dent, and he made an enemy of one Colonel Buchanan. He
                    also tried for an instructorship in mathematics at West Point.
            Then came the Mexican War. Grant considered it an unjust war. Here one hesitates to go along with the
                    writer without questioning his critical appraisal of the great tradition-making factor in Mexican
                    War guilt. One would ask whether Grant's views were current and not after-views and
                    certainly not products of the Northwest environment. Grant was a regimental quartermaster in General
                    Taylor's campaign, managed to smell battle smoke a little, but most of all, he caught his
                    military cue from "Old Rough and Ready." General Zachary
                    Taylor—slouchy, thorough, setting up his battles, and driving them through
                    personally—was the prototype of America's great general. Grant was with the
                    Scott campaign,  still a quartermaster. It was Captain Lee who
                    shone in this campaign—Captain Lee whose prototype was General Win-field
                    Scott—the formal military man, parade perfect, author of the general plan letting
                    subordinates take care of its execution. However, Grant did get a chance to perform one feat of
                    valor, the San Cosme episode, for which he was breveted captain. He learned war from both Taylor and
                    Scott.
            The war over, Grant returned, married Julia Dent, did garrison duty in Great Lakes posts, and started
                    a family. The instructorship project had vanished; and Grant, after the custom of the service, was
                    transferred to the Pacific coast. Inflated prices of the gold rush era made his income as first
                    lieutenant inadequate. He tried numerous money-making projects in order to bring his family west.
                    Every venture was ill-starred to a degree that the writer's insistence on Grant's
                    business ability seems a little incredible. It was then that the young captain turned to drink and
                    was forced to resign. Catton thinks the particular bender that brought on the ultimatum to resign or
                    stand trial was not out of pattern for the officer of the period, but that the commanding officer,
                    Buchanan, bore malice. The most important aspect was that it established the whiskey bottle in the
                    Grant tradition.
            Grant's "hardscrabble" days are not over-stressed. His failure as
                    woodcutter, farmer, and real estate man are not interpreted to vitiate his business ability. Neither
                    is Catton concerned as to whether or not the older Grant gave his son a dirty job at 
                        Galena
                    . During the period Grant looked seedy, was taciturn, both qualities rather natural to
                    him. He wasn't licked. Julia never lost confidence in him. For tradition purposes, the
                    period has tended to give meaning to the way his given name, Ulysses, was garbled as Useless.
            The hour of destiny came. The Union was destroyed. Part II of the book is titled "The Great
                    Commander." Catton leaves us without detail as to how Grant tamed the Seventh District
                    "hoodlums" and produced the renowned Twenty-first Regiment. His initial campaign
                    with this regiment in north 
                        Missouri
                     taught him vital lessons. The author notes these, though he does not go into careful
                    analysis. Grant at 
                        Mexico
                     (on the north 
                        Missouri
                     railroad) was not then guarding the Hannibal and St. Joe. It is a slip of no
                    significance.
            
            Shortly, Grant has his star. Washburn and John Rawlins enter the picture, and soon Grant has 
                        Lincoln
                    's attention. He is in command at Cairo, key point on the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and the river the key to the war. From Cairo to 
                        Appomattox
                     the author establishes a clear channel through the career of Grant.
            First came the Battle of Belmont, still hard to rationalize but conceded good practice and good for
                    Union morale. When the Confederates violated 
                        Kentucky
                    's neutrality it was Grant who seized Paducah and controlled the mouths of the 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Cumberland
                     rivers. Then he insinuated the Henry and Donelson project into a niche of advantage for
                    the Commander in Chief, executed them brilliantly, and developed his immortal
                    "unconditional surrender." He survived his chief's jealousy, and fate put
                    him in command at "bloody" 
                        Shiloh
                    . He was not drunk at 
                        Shiloh
                    , was as alert to surprise as any general of that period of the war, and his dogged
                    persistence saved the battle. Grant was now temporarily eclipsed, placed in the shadow of the
                    whiskey bottle, while Halleck concentrated on an objective that didn't exist and then
                    dispersed his forces to a degree that destroyed the Union offensive.
            The situation cleared, and it was Grant again. 
                        Vicksburg
                     was the objective of the renewed offensive, and trials at a north approach proved
                    futile. Grant made his plans, using what he had learned from Scott and Taylor. Strange, his only
                    support was the military ogre, McClernand. He reported the plan in such a way that it could not be
                    disallowed. The 
                        Vicksburg
                     campaign was a masterpiece; the surrender contemporary with Lee's repulse at 
                        Gettysburg
                    . The back of the Confederacy was broken at 
                        Vicksburg
                    . Catton reaches his thesis climax here: Why should the author of this, the most
                    brilliant campaign, go on in tradition as a stupid, head-on fighter who did nothing else and did
                    that only on rare occasions when he was sober? Catton opens a new area here—the
                    promulgation of this condemning tradition. One wishes he might do his next study in this area, and
                    especially tell us why 
                        England
                     extolled and studied 
                        Jackson
                     and Lee, and how triumphant conservatism in the North endorsed Lee, the aristocrat,
                    instead of Grant, the man of the people.
            After 
                        Vicksburg
                    , Grant was inevitable. Rosecrans with the Army of the 
                        Cumberland
                     was in straits at 
                        Chattanooga
                    . Grant was sent. All that was necessary was somebody to take charge and do something.
                    This Grant did; though he was  not responsible for the complete
                    reversal of situation, he got credit for it. The next step was three stars and supreme command.
            Grant planned the remainder of the war just as he had the part of it already won. There was no break
                    in continuity—development from the West and Sherman in charge. This was to be done of
                    necessity by defeating the Confederate armies but more especially by destroying the power of the
                    South to sustain armies. The major problem was in the East where the war couldn't be won
                    but might be lost. The pattern was already set and couldn't be diverted. The only margin
                    Grant had was manpower, and the question whether the Union would pay the price to drive Lee to the 
                        Richmond
                     trenches, and the inevitable. The North paid the price, though political support turned
                    on the West and Sherman's victory at 
                        Atlanta
                    . In the spring came 
                        Appomattox
                     and Grant stood supreme.
            When, in Part III, Catton shifts Grant to the political field he faces his stiffest interpretative
                    job. Grant's position made it inevitable that he would be an actor in the confused scene
                    after 
                        Lincoln
                    's death. In himself an epitome of the people, he could never transcend the
                    fact to become their great mentor and guide. He made his terms of surrender stick, forced the
                    quashing of the indictment of Lee for treason. When the fight developed between Johnson and
                    Congress, as a military man he considered Congress supreme and naturally endorsed Congress. When he
                    became president, as ultimately he would, he had a conception of the presidency that would assure
                    his failure. It is interesting that Catton believes that for like reasons, no military man is well
                    fitted for the presidency.
            No revisionist could quarrel with Catton's interpretative analysis of the period. His
                    picture of Andrew Johnson lacks a few touches; perhaps this is deliberate, since Grant's
                    quarrel with Johnson was personal.
            Grant was elected in 1869 by a small popular majority. Regardless, he was an epitome of the
                    subconscious desires of the people: simple in person, not a politician, logical preserver of the
                    results of the war, and embodiment of a return to "old times." His lack of
                    qualification for the job showed up at once. He chose his cabinet independently and didn't
                    tie the White House to political action. He inherited a number of  political obligations and a large official force that was the product of Congressional patronage.
                    In this situation eyes that spotted defrauding contractors at Cairo were blind to the same thing in
                    the political setting. Realizing something wrong, Grant developed a sort of frustration complex.
            Catton makes a good case for constructive features in Grant's first administration,
                    especially since a revolution had actually occurred. Able to pick generals he was equally incapable
                    of judging great financial magnates of the period or of understanding their behavior; hence, he got
                    credit for Credit Mobilier, Santa Domingo, and Black Friday. Conditions that produced the Tweed Ring
                    and others, things that had no bearing whatsoever on his administration, were accredited to it. He
                    won a second term on the Democrats' political blunder in accepting Greeley.
            In Grant's second administration the author seems more concerned in case making. The
                    development of Reconstruction threw Grant into the arms of the Radicals, and they used him and
                    tarnished his fame. He was helpless in the avalanche of scandals that tradition attached to his
                    administration. He was not elected for a third term.
            As a private citizen, his old aimlessness returned. He made a wandering tour of the world, and the
                    Old Liners boomed him for president on his return. He lent his name to a firm, a bucket shop, that
                    swindled the public and pauperized him. Penniless, in the shadow of death, and in great pain, he
                    fought his last battle, wrote his Memoirs, and left his family a respectable
                    estate. He was the great general again in this, his last battle.
            Catton's book is well written, fast moving, and interesting. It is a must for anyone
                    interested in the period.
            
               DePauw University A. W. Crandall
         
         
            
               Inside 
                            Lincoln
                        's Cabinet: The Civil War Diaries of Salmon P. Chase. Edited by David
                    Donald. (
                        New York
                    : Longmans, Green and Company, 1954, pp. x, 342. Introduction and index.
                    $6.50.)
            Among the many 
                        Washington
                     diaries of the Civil War period, perhaps the least in importance and significance is
                    the diary left by Salmon P. Chase. The great Secretary of the 
                    Treasury appeared frequently and importantly in the diaries of such men as Gideon Welles and Adam
                    Gurowski, but his own personal recordings cast little significant light on either his own activities
                    or upon public affairs. Unlike Welles, Chase essayed no character analysis and made no significant
                    commentary on the leading personalities of wartime 
                        Washington
                    . He played, it is true, an important role in the mounting hostility to Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , but very little of this appeared in his diaries. He seemed rather to be only confused
                    about the President's methods and objectives, and he clearly did not comprehend why 
                        Lincoln
                     finally accepted his resignation. The major themes of his diaries were the issuance of
                    bonds, the making of trade regulations, the superficial details of patronage, and an abiding
                    interest in Negro soldiers. He threw in his diaries little light, however, upon financial affairs,
                    though he clearly believed his own acts and policies were both right and successful.
            The Chase diaries, which are deposited in two separate libraries, have been printed before, but never
                    before have they been so ably edited or with so understanding an introduction. David Donald has done
                    an excellent editorial job and brought meaning and comprehension to the fragmentary jottings of the
                    treasury secretary. Unfortunately, they are, after all, only fragmentary jottings. For at least half
                    the time that he was inside 
                        Lincoln
                    's cabinet, Chase wrote nothing in his diary, and the things that he did write
                    cause him to emerge as a figure of considerably less importance than his contemporaries believed him
                    to be.
            
               University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                William B. Hesseltine
         
         
            
               Americans Interpret Their Civil War. By Thomas J. Pressly. (
                        Princeton
                    : 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1954, pp. xvi, 347. Bibliography and index. $5.00.)
            America's Civil War and Reconstruction have produced a literature of vast size and
                    increasing complexity. It is time that historians have set themselves to the task of distillation, a
                    task well begun by this survey of the historiography of the brothers' war. It is an
                    extensive body of writing which the author oversees. The accounts date from the crash of
                    Sumter's guns to the latest available scholarship, range across ninety  years of differing written opinions concerning the causes of events and
                    the roles of individuals. Thomas J. Pressly has analyzed and arranged these opinions into
                    chronological and topical categories, which act alone makes this a useful volume.
            The first four of the eight major sections into which the book is divided deal with the war years and
                    the two decades following. Historians, amateur and professional, took to their pens in defense of
                    their sections, and their productions reflect their partisanship. Villains abound in the accounts by
                    men who wrote of war during that war or soon thereafter, men who suffered personally or vicariously
                    from the vicissitudes of battle and Reconstruction, men who saw at stake in their writings
                    posterity's view of their cause. Northern writers (Von Hoist as example) condemned the
                    South to a historical hell as slave imperialism and Union destroyer; Southern writers (Pollard,
                    Davis, Stephens) castigated the North for enjoying its seduction by abolitionists and Republicans.
                    With deft strokes Pressly has presented these disparate views, and with them the names of many
                    writers little known to general readers and perhaps to many students of the period.
            Time, the healing action of newer issues of politics, economics, and social change, lessened
                    sectional exacerbation. By the 1880's the "bloody shirt" was fitter
                    raiment for election oratory than for footnotes, This interim period (from approximately 1880 to
                    after the turn of the century) is encompassed in the book's fifth division. It was the
                    period when Von Hoist was succeeded by Schouler and Burgess was beginning his fruitful seminars.
                    Rhodes, McMaster, Hart, Wilson, Turner, and Channing appeared on the academic and writing scenes,
                    and produced treatises on the Civil War dominated by new standards of objective scholarship. Factors
                    more complex than the merely political found place in their writings; documentation became a
                    disciplinary tool well calculated to reduce passions and increase accuracy. Such men made value
                    judgments, but refrained from wholesale censuring, refused, if I have read their works correctly, to
                    permit facts to become distorted in order to fit their pre-conclusions. Pressly looks with nostalgic
                    appreciation at the accomplishments of these "nationalist" historians, for he soon
                    evidences to the reader that much of their constructive neutrality has been absent from more recent
                    analyses of the Civil War period.
            
            The remainder of the volume is devoted to this more recent and current acrimony among writers on the
                    rebellion. Opening this latter phase is the commanding figure of Charles A. Beard who omitted moral
                    considerations in order to stress social changes as products of economic causes. Tracing
                    Beard's thesis, Pressly underscores the implications of the former's reasoning,
                    indicates the neo-Calhounite position that reasoning produced, suggests that history may also make
                    strange bedfellows. For with Beard came a chorus of Marxist critiques of older interpretations of
                    the Civil War, critiques often constructive if overly shrill. The author wisely places Beard in the
                    social protest context of his time and identifies him as a supremely important spokesman for that
                    time. The section on Beard is, in the reviewer's opinion, of substantial merit.
            In a somewhat too rapid finale, the author treats with many of the major figures in the revived
                    sectional interpretations. The names of the scholars who have dominated Civil War studies (and
                    students) from World War I to today (Phillips, Randall, Craven, 
                        Milton
                    , Barnes, Cole, Owsley, Nevins and many others) share insufficient space in which their
                    theses are bared to comparative view. "Confusion of Voices" as a title fits this
                    entire section as well as the concluding chapter, where the author applied it. For Pressly makes
                    clear that Americans have been and are saying in 1954 many of the same things about the Civil War
                    that their literary grandparents said in 1861. And, dismayingly, the revived sectionalism is perhaps
                    as subjective today as it was ninety years ago. Perhaps the moderns are more sophisticated in their
                    arguments, as surely they are more careful in research. But it remains true, despite important
                    "new nationalists," that sectionalism has rerisen in the never too placid Eden of
                    historical scholarship. On this somber note Pressly closes his account.
            Perhaps this work is over-ambitious in including so many writers (many of less than first
                    importance); perhaps fuller attention to major figures might have borne better analytical fruit. The
                    major defect, indeed, rests in the cursory examination of important historians to which the author
                    is reduced in the latter portion of the book. To this reviewer, Randall was more than merely
                    "sentimental," Aptheker was more perceptive than Pressly conceded, Nevins more
                    positive in his views than suggested.
            
            Pressly deserves praise for his accomplishment in presenting this survey of intellectual history, and
                    for providing the student and general reader with a useful summary of the major literature of the
                    Civil War. And, considering the world in which Pressly writes, it is a matter of moment to have this
                    important reminder that honest men may differ in their interpretations of events.
            
               Earlham College Harold M. Hyman
         
         
            
               The Writing of American History. By Michael Kraus. (
                  Norman, Oklahoma
               : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1953, pp. x, 386. Index. $5.50.)
            American historiography began with the Norse sagas but with the Spanish historians there began a
                    chain of narration that links with our own day, and Richard Hakluyt was to write volumes about
                    imperial expansion before the English began their colonization of America. With this introduction
                    Michael Kraus takes up the historians of the first settlements—John Smith, William
                    Bradford, John Winthrop, and on through the Mathers. The chapters that follow, in the main, proceed
                    chronologically: The Era of Colonialism; The Growing National Spirit: 1750-1800; Gathering the
                    Records— Awaiting the National Historian; Patriots, Romantics—and Hildreth;
                    Francis Parkman; The Rise of the "Scientific School"; Henry Adams; The Nationalist
                    School; The Imperial School of Colonial History; The Frontier and Sectional Historians; Biography;
                    and Contemporary Trends.
            In 1891 James 
                        Franklin
                     Jameson published a sketch of American historical writing, carrying his study to the
                    1880's. In 1917 John 
                        Spencer
                     Bassett published his The Middle Group of American Historians,
                    chiefly concerned with Sparks, Bancroft, and Peter Force. Not until 1937 when Michael Kraus
                    published his A History of American History was any survey of the whole field of
                    American historical writing available. The Writing of American History
                    incorporates all the materials of Kraus's 1937 volume and with revision and expansion
                    brings the study to date.
            To this reviewer the book seems an indispensible reference for the student of American history. It is
                    intentionally selective but covers the whole sweep of our history, concentrating  on the writings that deal with American history in a comprehensive
                    manner. The book is distinguished by a broad and intensive knowledge of American historiography, a
                    comprehension of the mind and outlook of its writers, and critical evaluations of their
                    contributions. It is imperative that the readers of history should understand the writers of it.
                    Thus has Kraus made the backgrounds and the climates of opinion of its writers of as much concern as
                    their writings.
            The title of Kraus's first book might have been retained, A History of American
                        History, but the revised title carries a further thought. The Writing of
                        American History also suggests the historian in action. One senses process and
                    ever-changing outlook. Each new generation of historians is confronted with a new environment,
                    social, political, and intellectual. Little wonder that each generation must write its own history.
                    Change is constant, so much so that if a historian lives too long, as did George Bancroft, he is
                    outdated before his death.
            Kraus's book will be cataloged as historiography, but it is also a fruitful chapter in
                    American intellectual history. The author has tracked down the idea and the practice of history and
                    the interplay between the mind of the historian and the social, political, and intellectual factors
                    in his environment. The book is a chapter in the growth of the American mind. From this angle many
                    earlier professors of Clio rise in significance and one senses the heavy indebtedness of the present
                    day historians to the earlier ones.
            Kraus adopted a selective principle for this study, giving space to the shapers of our history
                    writing and to those writings of fundamental importance. To illustrate, spatially, Parkman, Henry
                    Adams, and George Bancroft are given a dozen pages each; Edward Channing and Turner, eight each;
                    Hildreth and Beard, seven each; Sparks and Von Hoist, six each; three to Thomas Prince; and two to
                    Parson Weems. Many others fall into place with fewer pages or from one to a dozen lines. A sampling
                    of the author's appraisals follow: Thomas Prince, though "aridly factual"
                    was "an American pioneer in scientific historical writings." Thomas
                    Hutchinson's "work ranks above that of all other colonial historians."
                    Peter Force "was a focus of the historical interests of the country." Of Parson
                    Weems: "Despite his many inaccuracies, his simple writing was so warm with enthusiasm that
                    it  brought to life figures already grown austere and
                    remote"; and it is "not too much to say that generations of historical scholars
                    have been unable to modify seriously the popular picture Weems created of our Revolutionary
                    heroes." Sparks's visit to 
                        England
                     "made him one of the earliest Americans to examine the British side of the
                    Revolutionary struggle…. The vast range of his activity altered completely the character
                    of our historical literature." Of the significance of George Bancroft, Kraus notes his idea
                    of continuity which, said Bancroft, "gives vitality to history. No period of time has a
                    separate being." Answering those who are critical of Bancroft's lack of
                    objectivity, Kraus observes that "he wrote at a time when history was more than
                    investigation into the past—it was supposed to give instruction." Of Hildreth,
                    "many writers in after years owed a large debt to Hildreth for the organization of his
                    material and the philosophic grasp he displayed." The "romantics" said
                    Kraus, "were usually as careful in the use of sources as were their self-styled
                    ‘scientific’ successors—they were attracted to different types of
                    materials. The ‘scientific’ historians won out, only to lose the wide public
                    devoted to the ‘romantics.’" "Parkman's scrupulous
                    care in using sources has not been surpassed by later writers, while his literary gifts have been
                    the envy of a host of historians." Kraus devotes an entire chapter to Henry Adams who
                    "may well be said to have inaugurated" the "scientific school"
                    in American historiography, but his philosophy of history based on the second law of thermodynamics
                    "has been fairly discredited." Though not unchallenged (see Irving
                    Brant's 
                        
                            Madison
                        
                    ) his History marks "one of the highest achievements in American
                    historiography." John Fiske, "a literary, philosophical historian" with
                    some flair for the "scientific," ardent follower of 
                        Spencer
                     and Darwin but with no great originality, was "an amateur in
                    history… with a zest for life." Woodrow Wilson, "a successful popular
                    historian" who thought he found the key to the nation's history in spiritual
                    forces, "was not much of a believer in ‘scientific’
                    objectivity." Though his main interests were political, "his contention that there
                    was no American nation until after the Civil War profoundly affected historical
                    interpretation." McMaster's A History of the People of the 
                            United States
                        
                was to have "a remarkable influence on his own and the next
                    generation." It was "the real precursor of the  social-history school in America." "He was, perhaps, the first to emphasize the
                    place of the West in America's history and in stressing economic factors he was a
                    predecessor of Beard as well as of Turner." He had a terrific appetite for historical facts
                    but "for him they were all created equal."
            
               The American Nation, A History "represented the work of the first
                    generation of trained American historians" who were "almost entirely
                    academicians." In the main its twenty-seven volumes "followed conventional lines
                    of political history." Edward Channing was "one of the earliest and finest
                    products of the ‘scientific school.’" His "treatment of the
                    colonies as part of the English imperial system was a novel and important feature for the
                    time." There is little if any philosophy in his volumes although he "carried over
                    into them beliefs in evolution and the idea of progress…. In the main his history was for
                    historians." Herbert 
                        Osgood
                     "was among the first to see that a large part of American colonial history
                    must be told with reference to the British imperial system." Charles M. Andrews went
                    farthest in reconstructing the view of the colonial past from the vantage point of the English
                    homeland. Lawrence Henry Gipson, disciple of Andrews, has published to date seven volumes of his The British Empire before the American Revolution. Less felicitous than Parkman,
                    he is reminding scholars of problems the latter never considered.
            A chapter on the frontier and sectional historians runs to forty-three pages of which twenty are
                    devoted to the West; of these, eight and a half are concerned with Turner. Godkin, McMaster, and
                    Bryce understood the meaning of the frontier in American development but "not until Turner
                    began writing was a clearly formulated expression of the place of the frontier in American life
                    presented." He thought of himself, says Kraus, as a "truly nationalist
                    historian… less interested in the West as a region in itself than as an illustration of
                    the process of American development." Shortly after Turner's death came a flood of
                    criticism of his frontier thesis. It came from various angles and must be reckoned with, but
                    "even if Turner did exaggerate the role of the frontier in the promotion of democracy, his
                    general thesis that the movement westward profoundly affected the course of American history and
                    greatly influenced the formation of traits of the national character was valid." Many
                    historians of the West are given  place in this chapter. The
                    chapter treats also the sectional historians of New 
                        England
                     and the South, featuring for the former Charles Francis Adams, James Truslow Adams, and
                    Samuel Morison, and for the latter, Bruce, McCrady, Dunning, Phillips, and Dodd, plus recent
                    historiography of the Civil War and Reconstruction. "In no field of study is there greater
                    vitality than in the history of the South, and her own universities are contributing largely to its
                    vigorous growth." A chapter of thirty pages on biography devotes twenty-two of them to
                    Beveridge, Nevins, and Douglas Freeman.
            Kraus concludes his book with a chapter on contemporary trends which is chiefly concerned with
                    economic interpretations and a history of American life. Charles Beard is given the place of
                    distinction: "No American historian in the twentieth century had a wider influence, with a
                    large audience among scholars and a larger one among the general public." At 
                        Columbia
                    , he "became a freshening breeze that swept away academic staleness."
                    He made "two significant contributions of original research with his An
                        Economic Interpretation of the Constitution and the Economic Origins of
                        Jeffersonian Democracy" and while he later admitted that he had overstated the
                    case, his work left a lasting impression on historiography. Beard believed that historical writing
                    was to be the instrument for the advancement of social reform and "more than anyone else
                    stimulated scholars to recognize frankly the functional nature of historical knowledge."
            The history of American life we are only now feeling our way into. "Its proper scope is a
                    matter filled with controversial elements." Surveying the thirteen volumes of A History of American Life, Kraus finds that most of its volumes "lack comment on
                    what the facts mean." Of 
                        Vernon
                     Parrington, Kraus writes, "after everything unfavorable was said, there
                    remained an important body of achievement…. and no student of America should forego the
                    joy of reading him."
            At the end of his book Kraus says that "erudition, interpretation, artistry—these
                    are required in the historian." In The Writing of American History he has
                    demonstrated his right to so prescribe. His book is the rich fruit of long research, skillfully
                    organized and delightfully presented. However the proofreader allowed 
                        Washington
                    's name to stand where apparently Jefferson's was supposed to be (p.
                    330) and missed page 341 entirely. The index contains reference 
                    to the name of nearly every historian mentioned and of persons, subjects of their writings. Von
                    Holst and Lawrence Gipson escaped the indexer. Some subdivisions of the table of contents are in the
                    index, some are not. The names of magazines and journals and of historical associations are included
                    and the name of but one book, Uncle Tom's Cabin. These slips are trivial
                    and this reviewer is more than ready to underwrite the blurb of the jacket flap: "For the
                    teacher, student, or lay reader of American history, there is no other single volume anywhere which
                    will direct, stimulate, and enlarge the appreciation and perspective of American historical writing
                    in the fashion of The Writing of American History."
            
            
               Rutgers University Irving Stoddard Kull
         
         
            
               History of Martin County, Indiana. By Harry Q. Holt. (Paoli, Indiana: Published
                    by the author, 1953, pp. ix, 366. Illustrations and index. $5.00.)
            This latest volume in the series of Indiana county histories deserves to rank with the best of those
                    previously published. Martin County, somewhat off the beaten track of early Indiana history,
                    naturally lacks the glamour and romance that characterize the histories of those counties that
                    actively passed through the French and British periods. Harry Q. Holt has nevertheless produced an
                    interesting and detailed study that furnishes Martin County with the most up-to-date history of any
                    county in Indiana.
            Fluent writing and attention to detail are such an integral part of this study that the reader
                    immediately has a feeling of confidence in the scholarly ability of the author. An intense desire
                    for accuracy and completeness is evident on every page, often to the extent of listing insignificant
                    material. As commendable examples of the author's research one can list his diligence in
                    attempting to find the origin of the county name, his well-drawn account of the difficulties
                    involved in locating a permanent county seat (it changed nine times, a record in Indiana), and his
                    interesting account of the attempts to increase or decrease the county area, even to recent attempts
                    to dissolve the county altogether. His striving for completeness, however, sometimes clutters the
                    text with unimportant  details, incidentals, and names. A few
                    examples might include the mention of the first two persons to bring cook stoves to the county, the
                    first owner of a radio set, the first owner of a riding cultivator, the first owner of a television
                    set, and the like. Also somewhat out of place is the list of every case to come before the circuit
                    court in November, 1951, complete with names and decisions, as an example of the type of cases the
                    court now handles. The forty-six persons named in the twenty-three divorce cases listed will
                    probably not relish their new-found fame in a county history. Mention of the number and types of
                    cases in each category would no doubt have sufficed to prove the author's point.
                    Holt's own realistic attitude, however, is expressed in his preface, where he notes that
                    "many facts and incidents are included not so much because of their present importance, but
                    more so for their value for the use of future generations."
            Holt is at his best describing the early social and family life of county inhabitants. Here again his
                    exactness and attention to facts are impressive. He does not write in generalities, but in specific
                    detail, as if he personally had lived through the period. A nice touch is his remark on one
                    occasion, for example, that he (the author) "still remembers when he used an outside pole
                    ladder to reach his bed in the attic of a log cabin." Especially interesting too is his
                    chapter on customs and traditions. He begins with the remark that "Martin County is
                    probably more prolific in customs and traditions than any other county in Indiana," and
                    then sets out to prove his point by listing forty-four local superstitions together with a series of
                    fascinating tales and legends that "have been told so often they are regarded almost as
                    true."
            Only a few minor criticisms are in place. A very fine job of proofreading has resulted in an almost
                    flawless text. The reviewer noted only two places (pp. 186 and 313) where minor changes might have
                    made a small improvement. Furthermore, Chapter VI is correctly titled "Highways and
                    Transportation" in the table of contents but unfortunately abbreviated to a misleading
                    title, "Highways," in the text itself. More significant perhaps is a
                    misinterpretation of government land policy. In discussing the sale of government land in Martin
                    County (p. 23) the author notes that most of the land was sold under the terms of the Land Act of
                    1820. He then declares that the government was extremely lenient  toward purchasers inasmuch as its policy provided for a small down payment and several years of
                    credit. It would have been in place to note that the 1820 law did away with credit and insisted on
                    cash on the barrelhead. Finally, the book ends rather abruptly with a very brief account of Crane
                    Naval Ammunition Depot which now occupies a sizeable portion of Martin County. A longer section
                    devoted to the Crane Depot would have been an improvement to an otherwise excellent text.
            These few criticisms detract nothing from the excellence of Holt's work. His History of Martin County is a valuable contribution to the local history of Indiana.
            
               
                  
                            Evansville
                         College Orville J. Jaebker
         
         
            
               The Catholic Indian Missions and Grant's Peace Policy, 1870-188A. By
                    Peter J. Rahill. (
                        Washington
                    : The Catholic University of America Press, 1953, pp. xx, 396. Illustrations,
                    bibliography, and index. Cloth, $5.00; Paper, $4.25.)
            The Catholic Indian Mission Bureau has found a good historian. In the first chapter of this book the
                    Rev. Peter J. Rahill treats of the Catholic Church's traditional solicitude for the
                    Indians. In the second chapter he records the not always successful measures adopted by the
                    government in the days of President Ulysses S. Grant in behalf of the Indians and the drawback of
                    not having an effective Catholic agency at 
                        Washington
                     to press the Catholic claims in the Indian mission field—a drawback that
                    gradually led to measures to offset it. From chapters three to seven the author deals with the
                    founding and organization of the Catholic Indian Mission Bureau; of its financing; of the criticisms
                    of it from some of the bishops and missionaries, but especially from James A. McMaster, the editor
                    of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Freeman's Journal; of its operations among the Sioux of Dakota,
                    especially of the two earliest and typical missions of the Benedictines from St. Meinrad Archabbey;
                    and, finally, of the expansion of its activity consequent to the abandonment of Grant's
                    so-called Indian Peace Policy, which hitherto had restricted its operations. In an epilogue, Rahill
                    sketches the course of events from the complete setting aside of Grant's peace policy till
                         the hierarchy officially reorganized the Catholic Indian
                    Mission Bureau and established the financing thereof on the present, more effective, basis. The
                    whole volume is the fruit of both an extensive and intensive research in many archives that hold
                    documentary material pertinent to the subject. The result is that the work must be classed as a
                    major contribution to the history of the missions among the Indians in the 
                        United States
                    .
            By reason of his interest in this work, the reviewer presumes to note a few desiderata. In view of
                    the fact that the whole work deals mainly with the organization and activity of the Catholic Indian
                    Mission Bureau in the time of Grant's Indian Peace Policy, its title would have been more
                    apposite had it stated as much. Rahill repeatedly mentions Father Genin as an Indian missionary and
                    as a contributor to the Freeman's Journal. He could have expressed
                    himself much more critically on Genin if he had had before him Bishop John Shanley's
                    "The Founding of the Catholic Church in 
                        North Dakota
                    ," in Collections of the State Historical Society of 
                            North Dakota
                        , Volume II (Bismarck, 1908). Shanley denounces Genin's claims as
                    missionary as false, and he numbers Genin's letters to the Freeman's
                        Journal "among the curiosities of literature."
            Rahill's interpretation of the sources treating the reasons why Commissioner Hayt withheld
                    the salaries of the teachers at Standing Rock can be questioned. He presents the withholding of
                    those salaries as an act of reprisal against the Catholic Indian Mission Bureau because the bureau
                    did not recall the missionaries (two secular priests, Frederick and Brossart) from Pine Ridge and
                    Rosebud, where they were stationed in violation of Grant's peace policy. However, the
                    bureau's motive for finally removing the two did not lie in a recognition of the justice of
                    that policy, thus to obtain the salaries for the teachers at Standing Rock, to the payment of which
                    the government was obligated; the two were recalled for personal and canonical reasons, as several
                    letters of Abbot Martin Marty indicate. Further, in his letter to Bishop James O'Connor
                    (September 4, 1878), quoted by Rahill, Marty refers to means of support of the priests only at those
                    two posts. The fact that shortly thereafter Meinrad McCarthy, O.S.B., was sent to Pine Ridge implies
                    that neither political nor financial but only canonical reasons had motivated the removal of the  other two. Finally, the reason the payment of those salaries
                    for the teachers at Standing Rock was delayed at that time lay in the fact that the vouchers for
                    those salaries had not been made out in proper form. That caused complications between the 
                        United States
                     Treasury Department and the bureau (Lusk to Jerome Hunt, O.S.B., February 22, 1879).
            Rahill says (p. 240) that Marty had an "official commission" to go to Sitting
                    Bull's camp. Marty had an official permission to go at his own risk and expense, but that
                    was no "commission."
            The fire that destroyed St. Meinrad Abbey together with its archives was not in
                    "1888" (p. 347) but in 1887. A few typographical errors of consequence are to be
                    noted: "Clestin" (p. 16), should be Celestine; "Coyler" (p. 35),
                    Colyer; "Marcopa" (p. 110), Maricopa; "at a lost" (p. 136), at a
                    cost; "Aus der Indianerlande" (p. 218), Aus dem
                        Indianerlande; "Scots" (p. 222), Scotch. Other typographical errors are
                    of no consequence and are easily corrected by the eye of even a casual reader.
            These minutiae notwithstanding, the reader will quickly see that Father Rahill has produced a
                    scholarly work.
            
               St. Meinrad Archabbey Albert Kleber, O.S.B.
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            The Engle Family, 
                        Randolph
                     County, Indiana
            Jennie M. Engle Staudt∗
            In 1683 four brothers came to America from Cambridgeshire, 
                        England
                    , which is about sixty-four miles from 
                        London
                    . Three of them settled in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . It is presumed that these three brothers first settled in 
                        Bristol
                     Township.
            
               1 Robert Engle, immigrant, direct ancestor of the 
                        Randolph
                     County, Indiana, Engle family, settled in Evesham Township, 
                        Burlington
                     County, 
                        New Jersey
                    . He married Jane Home on the fourth day of the fifth month in 1684. One child, a son,
                    John, was born to this union. 2 John married but at this moment his
                    wife's name is not known. Robert Engle, the immigrant to 
                        New Jersey
                    , died in 1696.
            John's son, 3 Robert, married Mary, the daughter of Samuel and Jane
                    Ogborn. They had five children and their son 4Robert married Rachel Vimcum. 4Robert was born in 1708 and died in 1774, at the age of sixty-six. His children
                    were 5Robert, Joseph, Abraham, Rachel, and Sarah.
            
               5Robert married Jane Sharp on September 19, 1739. Only one child of theirs is
                    mentioned, their son, 6Isaac Engle, born March 18, 1773, who married Sarah M.
                    Price, daughter of Thomas and Hannah Price. Sarah M. Price was born on March 17, 1774. Both Isaac
                    and Sarah were born in 
                        Burlington
                     County, 
                        New Jersey
                    , and were married there.
            
               6 Isaac and Sarah Engle were the parents of these children: Hannah, Robert,
                    Sarah, Isaac, Rachel A., Prudence, Susan, William, Lydia A., and Phoebe.
            
               7 William, the ninth child of Isaac and Sarah M. Price Engle, was born December
                    13, 1811, in 
                        Burlington
                     County, 
                        New Jersey
                    . When he was fourteen years old the family went to Warren County, 
                        Ohio
                    . William Engle was raised on a farm and endured all of the hardships common to pioneer
                    life. He received a fair business education from the common schools. He was married to Lutitia Cabe
                    on February 13, 1834.
            
               
                  ∗ Mrs. Jennie M. Engle Staudt is a resident of Union City,
                        Indiana. The sources of this family history are: E. Tucker, History of 
                                Randolph
                             County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1882); Francis Bazley Lee (comp.), General and Memorial History of
                            the State of 
                                New Jersey
                            
                   (4 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1910), II.
            
            
            Lutitia Cabe Engle, born in Bucks County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , November 29, 1813, was the daughter of Elias and Sarah (White) Cabe. Elias Cabe was
                    born in Bucks County, Penn sylvania, in 1768, the son of Thomas and Rebecca (Van Home) Cabe, of
                    Dutch descent. Sarah White Cabe was born in Bucks County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and was a daughter of George and Mary White, who were natives of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Lutitia Cabe Engle had one brother and five sisters, whose names were: Mary,
                    Charlotte, Abigail, Sarah, Margaret, and Thomas.
            Lutitia Cabe's union with William Engle was blessed with twelve sons, whose names and birth
                    dates are as follows: 
                  
                     Isaac
                     December 11, 1834
                  
                  
                     Wesley
                     April 21, 1836
                  
                  
                     Robert
                     September 21, 1837
                  
                  
                     Elias
                     December 9, 1838
                  
                  
                     William
                     December 18, 1841
                  
                  
                     Samuel
                     March 22, 1843
                  
                  
                     All of the above were born in Warren County, 
                                    Ohio
                                , not far from Waynesville.)
                  
               
                    
                  
                     Calvin Stratton
                     September 9,1844
                  
                  
                     James S.
                     September 18,1846
                  
                  
                     Daniel H.
                     May 11, 1849
                  
                  
                     Albert H.
                     May 26, 1851
                  
                  
                     Price
                     October 5, 1852
                  
                  
                     Josiah (Si)
                     October 30, 1854
                  
                  
                     (The last six sons were born at the Old Engle Home in 
                                    Washington
                                 Township, 
                                    Randolph
                                 County, Indiana.)
                  
               
            
            The Engle boys, as they were generally known, were farmers, stock raisers, schoolteachers, and
                    carpenters. James S. Engle was judge of 
                        Randolph
                     County. Calvin S. Engle was auditor. After the Civil War five of these boys migrated to
                    the West. Three married in the West and the Southwest. All came to live in later years at home.
                    Calvin S. and family, his wife and two daughters, in 1883 came by invitation from his father to
                    operate what is known as the Engle Home Place. Calvin S. Engle brought with him the first Holstein
                    herd known in that section of the county and took many blue ribbons at the county fairs. He had
                    full-blooded Clydesdale horses also.
            Isaac Engle, 
                        Wells County
                    , married Ann Hopkins. Wesley, 
                        Randolph
                     County, was married twice. His first wife was Martha Johnson, the mother of Molly Engle
                    Bright.  (Molly was the oldest grandchild of William and Lutitia
                    Engle.) Wesley's second wife was Catherine Sheppard.
            Robert, 
                        Randolph
                     County, was married twice. His first wife and the mother of his children was Datia
                    Ferguson. His second wife was Elizabeth Stevenson. Robert Engle served in the regular army, being
                    drafted in 1864. He served his country faithfully to the end of the Civil War.
            Elias Engle married Ruth A. Thornburg, 
                  Jefferson County,
                            Kansas
               . He served his country in the
                    Morgan Raid. William, who entered the Sixty-ninth Regiment of the Volunteer Infantry, died on his
                    way to the hospital in 
                  St. Louis, Missouri
               , after having been wounded in the
                    Battle of 
                        Shiloh
                    .
            Samuel died in infancy at the age of two years.
            Calvin Stratton Engle was named for a Dr. Stratton, the pioneer physician who brought him into the
                    world. He married Ellen Greeley of Faribault, 
                        Minnesota
                    . He was the seventh son and the first child born at the old Engle Home Place in
                    Indiana. Calvin enlisted in the Sixty-ninth Regiment, but being under age and having an attack of
                    measles, his father brought him home. After he returned to health, he re-enlisted in the Fifth
                    Indiana Cavalry. He was taken prisoner at 
                  Macon,
                            Georgia
               , and was confined in southern prison pens
                    (in 
                  Charleston, South
                            Carolina
               , and in Andersonville Prison, near Americus, 
                        Georgia
                    ) and endured all of the hardships of prison life for ten months. He was honorably
                    discharged at the close of the war.
            James S. Engle enlisted in the Union forces for 100-day service. He was married in 1875 to Alice
                    Monks, of 
                        Randolph
                     County.
            Daniel married Martha Sharp. Albert married first Harriet (Hattie) Deboy; his second wife was Mary
                    Hard wick (Hardrick).
            Price married Esther Patton, then of 
                        Iowa
                    . Josiah (Si) married Amanda Hoover.
            All but one of William and Lutitia Cabe Engle's twelve sons lived to manhood, that one being
                    Samuel. All married but two, Samuel and William. All the married sons except James S. had children.
            Calvin S. and Albert H. Engle made the first telephone in their section. The wires were placed in old
                    clock faces and strung over a mile, over fields and through woods. This lasted several years until
                    the children were old enough to do the errands.
            
            William Engle cast his first vote for Benjamin Harrison, being a Republican. Mr. and Mrs. Engle were
                    members of the United Brethren Church more than forty years. William Engle was a public-spirited
                    man, and served as trustee several times. He was interested in every movement calculated to advance
                    the interest of the country at large or of his immediate community. He died in 
                        Washington
                     Township, 
                        Randolph
                     County, Indiana, December 18, 1884. He was buried at Union Chapel Cemetery, west of the
                    villiage of Carlos. His wife, who died in 1900, was buried there also.
            The family of William and Lutitia Cabe Engle has entered its sixth generation (1951-1953), spreading
                    over Indiana, the Southwest and West. The three immigrants who crossed the 
                        Delaware
                     River into 
                        Pennsylvania
                     have spread their name all through 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and through 
                        Ohio
                    , in 
                  Sidney, Piqua, Dayton
               , and elsewhere
                    throughout the state.
         
         
            Roy V. Sherman, University of 
                  Akron, Akron, Ohio
               ,
                    has compiled a genealogy, "Some of the Descendants of Philip Sherman, First Secretary of 
                        Rhode Island
                    ," and has had it mimeographed and bound in a folder. It is for sale for
                    $1.00. Mr. Sherman invites correspondence concerning this line of the Sherman family.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
