
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 5, Issue 4, pages 137-200. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:5+issue:4+year:1909&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            LETTERS FROM EIGHTEENTH CENTURY INDIANA MERCHANTS.
            
                    BY CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN.
                
            THE following papers are from the Lasselle Collection in the Indiana State
                    Library. They include the most interesting of the Early Indiana Miscellaneous
                    Papers, I–in fact, all of any interest that are easily decipherable.
                    They are given in chronological order.
            The earlier papers need no comment other than the word of explanation joined with
                    them.
            Between 1785 and 1795 there are more papers. They show the condition of trade
                    with some detail. These are the years when the English, after ceding all the
                    west south of the great lakes to the 
                        United States
                    , still retained possession of the northern part of this territory.
                    Trade here was poor, and apparently becoming poorer. There was constant danger
                    of losing all the export trade of the region to 
                        New Orleans
                    . The Indians, at times, were an uncertain quantity and at times
                    avowedly hostile. Many of the small merchants seem to have failed, and the large
                    companies had difficulty.
            It has seemed best, so far as possible, to give the original French where that
                    was the language used, and join the translation immediately with it. One letter,
                    that from John MacPherson to David Gray, in March, 1785, was printed in the June
                    number of the magazine, but is reproduced here for the sake of completeness.
            Miamie town was the precursor of the modern 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ; Ouiatenon was near the present site of 
                        Lafayette
                    ; the other names mentioned are, I believe, more familiar.
            
            [Note of Vigoeiv to Drouet Richardville, Kaskaskia.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        je sousigne de ma marque ordinaire Devoir au Sieur Dedroit
                                    Richarville la somme de treize livre en castor ou pelterie que
                                    promes payer dans le cour de &lcar;anée
                                    milsept cent trenteneuf au Kaskakia le 21 avril 1738
                        
                                    marque X DE LA VIGOEIV.
                                    M. P. BEAUEIEU temoin.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Translation.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        I subscribe with my usual mark that I owe the Sieur Drouet
                                    Richardville the sum of thirteen livres in beaver skins or furs
                                    which [I] promise to pay in the course of the year seventeen
                                    hundred and thirty-nine at Kaskaskia. April 21, 1738.
                        
                           mark of X VIGOEIV
                           . M. P. BEAULIEU
                                        witness.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            [Sale of a negress at 
                        New Orleans
                    , 1765.]
            Ce jourdhui 31me jour de Juliet 1765 je sous signé declare avoir
                    vendre et livré a Monsieur Bebecart une Negresse nommée
                    Pegué agée de vingt cing ans ou environ pour le pris et
                    somme de dix sept cent livres en letres de change a moy en main
                    payées et dont je tiens quite mondit Sieur a la Nouvelle Orleans jour
                    et an que dessus
            JOSEPH CHALON.
            [Translation.]
            This, the 31st day of July, 1765, I the undersigned declare that I have sold and
                    delivered to Mr. Bebecart a negress named Peggy, age 25 years or about that, for
                    the sum of seventeen hundred livres [between $310 and
                    $340] in letters of exchange in hand paid and for liability for which
                    the above mentioned Sieur is released, at 
                        New Orleans
                     on the day and year aforesaid.
            JOSEPH CHAEEON.
            
            [Receipt for account of Ambroise Dagenet, Vincennes, with A.
                    Macomb, Detroit.]
            Je certifie que Monsr. Ambroise Dagenej me devoit la Somme de Cent six Pontes
                    trieze Chelins &amp; neuf pence du Cours de 
                        New York
                     pour arreté de Compte 19 Ju in 1772 la quelle Somme iil
                    me paya le cinq de Juin 1773. 
                        Detroit
                     5 Juillet 1774.
            L. Dejeunet I M Temvin A. MACOMB.
            [Reverse.]
            Registré en [illegible] au poste vincennes le 9 d aout 1774 Folio 18
            PHILWBERT Notaire.
            [Translation.]
            I certify that Mr. Ambroise Dagenet owed me the sum of one hundred and six
                    pounds, thirteen shillings and nine pence of the currency of 
                        New York
                     for the settlement of his account down to June 19, 1772, which sum
                    he paid me the fifth of June, 1773. 
                        Detroit
                    , July 5, 1774.
            A. MACOMB.
            [On the back.]
            Registered at Post Vincennes, August 9, 1774. Folio 18.
            PHILLIBERT Notary.
            [Note from Rocheblave, commander of Fort Gage, which the English built near
                    Kaskaskia to take the place of Fort Chartres, to Mayon, a merchant, at 
                        Vincennes
                    . The letter was written only twelve months before Rocheblave
                    surrendered to Clark.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Monsieur
                        vous m' aviez flaté d &lcar;espoir de
                                    vous voir en ce pays, sans doute que la nature des afaires ne
                                    vous lá pas permis, j adresse votre billet a Mr.
                                    Legras a qui je vous seray obligé de le payer me
                                    trouvant tres géné. Je vous of re
                                    volontiers mes services si je puis nous etre utile. Jay
                                    &lcar;honneur &dcar;etre bien sincerement
                        
                           Monsieur votre tres humble et tres
                                        obeissant serviteur
                                    
                              
                                 Fort Gage
                              
                                        le.19 Juin 1777.
                                    ROCHEBLAVE
                           .
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [Addressed.]
            A Monsieur Monsieur Mayon negotiant a St Vincennes
            [Translation.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Sir:
                        You flattered me with the hope of seeing you in these parts. But
                                    not doubting that circumstances do not permit it I address your
                                    letter to Mr. Legras, whom I will thank you to pay as I am very
                                    hard up. I gladly offer you my services if I can be of use to
                                    you. I have the honor to be, sir, sincerely
                        
                           Your very humble and obedient
                                    servant, ROCHEBLAVE
                           .
                     
                  
               
                
            [Addressed.]
            Mr. Mayon, Merchant, St. Vincennes.
            [Advertisement for stolen boy.]
            Clarksville April 26 1783
            Was taken from this place about the 18th of February Last a boy named John
                    Scroggan about Eight years and one half of age of a fair Complexion pitted with
                    the Small-pox he had Short fair hair Suposed to be taken by the Kickabouse or
                    Windots if said boy be found a Reasonable reward Shall be paid by me
            TOHMAS SCROGGAN.
            [Account of McKay with Adhemar St. Martin.]
            
               
                  Miamis 1785
                   
                  McKay a Adhemar S. Martin
                   
               
               
                  Fevrier
                  6
                  5 lbs. ¼ Tabac a 6 lv
                  [31 10 torn out]
               
               
                   
                  9
                  5 lbs. Sucre a 30s
                  [7 10 torn out]
               
               
                  Mars
                  3
                  34 lbs. farine a 20s
                  34
               
               
                   
                   
                  St. Vincenne sur une montre
                  [27 torn out]
               
               
                  May
                  13
                  4 Brides a 5lv
                  20
               
               
               
                   
                  16
                  I au ½ ruban a 20s
                  1 10
               
               
                  Juillet
                  3
                  1 chapeau laine
                  6
               
               
                   
                  10
                  1 au ruban noir
                  1 10
               
               
                   
                  28
                  2 lb. ¼ savon a 40s
                  4 10
               
               
                  Avoust
                  5
                  2 lb. Castor a 3l
                  6
               
               
                  7bre
                  9
                  ½ lb. Thé verd a 24 lv
                  12
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                  1521.
               
               
                   
                   
                  par compte avec M. hiaeinte Laselle et Cole En pelteries [?].
                  90 15
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                  242l. 15
               
               
                   
                   
                  par compte avec Mr. L. Baby
                   
               
               
                   
                   
                  En argent
                  27lv.
               
               
                   
                   
                  a st vincenne le 6e 8bre 1785
                   
               
               
                   
                   
                  Mr. Lasell demande le port du payement jusqu' au mir par
                            restant de compte
                  12lv.
               
               
                   
                   
                  par Mr. Le Fevre
                  98 110
               
               
                   
                   
                  352lv.15
                   
               
            
            [Translation]
            
               
                  Miamitown 1785
                   
                  McKay with Adhemer St. Martin.
                   
                   
               
               
                  February
                  6
                  5 ¼ lbs. tobacco @ 6l
                  31 livres
                  10 sols
               
               
                   
                  9
                  5 lbs.suger @ 30s
                  7
                  10
               
               
                  March
                  3
                  34 lbs.fiour @ 20s
                  34
                   
               
               
                   
                   
                  
                     
                                Vincennes
                            , on a watch
                  27
                   
               
               
                  May
                  13
                  4 bridles @ 5l
                  20
                   
               
               
                   
                  16
                  1½ yards ribbon @20s
                  1
                  10
               
               
                  July
                  3
                  1 woolen hat
                  6
                   
               
               
                   
                  10
                  1 yard black ribbon
                  1
                  10
               
               
                   
                  28
                  2 ¼ lbs. soap @40s
                  4
                  10
               
               
                  August
                  5
                  2 lbs. Castor @ 3l
                  6
                   
               
               
                  September
                  9
                  ½ lb. green tea @ 241
                  12
                   
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                  152 livres.
                   
               
               
               
                   
                   
                  By account with Mr. Hyacinth Laselle & Co., in peltries [?].
                  90
                  15
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                  242l.
                  15s.
               
               
                   
                   
                  By account with Mr. L. Baby in silver 27l. at 
                                Vincennes
                             the 6th of October, 1785.
                   
                   
               
               
                   
                   
                  Mr. Laselle asks for the carriage [charge] out of the payment to me
                            [?] by the remainder of account 12l.
                   
                   
               
               
                   
                   
                  by Mr. LeFebvre 98
                  110
                   
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                  352l.
                  15s.
               
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To David Gray, Merchant, at Miamie-town.
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    Detroit
                                 
                              
                           
                                    23 March, 1785.
                        Dear Sir:
                        I embrace this opportunity to enquire about your Health, and the
                                    nature of times in that Country, what appearance of Trade. its
                                    said that there is a good hunt to the Southward I hope you will
                                    find the good effects of it, by its being in reality so. we have
                                    had here a very mild open winter, by no means reckoned favorable
                                    for the hunt. Indeed the equipers has reasons to expect but very
                                    Indifferent returns from the differant posts here abouts, very
                                    dull times in the fort, no business of any kind, either with the
                                    French or Indians, the only payment that can be expected for
                                    Goods is flour & corn this year, and I see no prospect
                                    of being able to dispose of it. the Contractors for the Mackina
                                    markett gets what corn & flour they want for Goods out
                                    of their own Shops, so that there's Scarcely any paper
                                    currency circulating. Mr. McKillep told me that you was a little
                                    indisposed when he past the Miamies coming in. I hope you soon
                                    got over it; the Measles raged here this season by which many
                                    Children died. L. Williams died with that or a Sort of Scarlet
                                    fever after Seven days Illness Andrew W.- Old Barthe has taken
                                    his departure  14th Instant
                                    after about two months Sickness. You have heard undoubtedly of
                                    the Barbarous manner Christie & another Man was murdered
                                    at the River Rouge at young Ca-hossa's House by a
                                    Sagina Indian apitchi Gabavey his name & 2 Sons, in
                                    about a week after the same Indians killed P. Jacobs &
                                    one Guthrie - Jno. Dolton was going out with them & made
                                    his escape. Jacobs killed one of the sons in the fray,
                                    there's several councills been held since with the
                                    other Indians to get them to bring the Murderers, they promise
                                    well but perform little, apropos what do you think of the
                                    Conjunction of the Six Come [Company?]
                                    Houses into a grand Societie for carrying on the Indian Trade,
                                    time will discover more of the effects of that grand
                                    undertaking, its probable that they will not find their
                                    advantage in such an Union unless they can procure an exclusive
                                    right to the different posts. Whatever occurances of the plan I
                                    write about it will be quite Stale to you, as you'll be
                                    better acquainted with them than myself. Mr. Geo. Meldrum is
                                    married to Miss Chapoton, Henry Ford to Miss Bella Andrews.
                                    there's 2 or 3 other young ladies closely besieged so
                                    that a Short time will bring a surrender. Robert McDougall is
                                    married to Miss Simonette Campau. The Gentlemen of the Garison
                                    keeps on good Sociall terms with the towns people &
                                    Major Ancrum seems to gain peoples esteem greatly by his
                                    justness & Impartiality. no news of any kind, no
                                    accounts from Niagara or Fort Pitt, in course no express from 
                                        Canada
                                    . Now permit me to request the favour of you to lett
                                    me know what Mr. Rivard, La Breche, etc are doing, do my dear
                                    Sir endeavour to get Something from those fellows recommended to
                                    your care, as it will be very hard times with me next Summer. I
                                    have wrote you formerly about the way Mr. Ellice [?] got
                                    Grevarats & Visgars affairs settled, they are Sett up
                                    again and trades in partnership at Sagina. they are furnished
                                    with goods from Mr. Abbott & Grosbeck so that you will
                                    be able to come on for your money sometime or other. having
                                    nothing further to add - I remain - Dear Sir
                        
                                    Your Most Obedient Servant
                                    JOHN MAC PHERSON
                           
                                
                        Prices Current flour per C. 60  Ind. Corne per Bushel 12 Oats-per
                                    Bushel's Venison per Car. 32 all Winter Beef per lb.
                                    1/8 very Scarce.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Receipt by Jacques Godfrey.]
            Je Reconnoit avoir Receit de Paul Gamelin un Billiet consenty par le sieur
                    Francois Remaux de la somme de quarante et une livres en paux de chevreuilles
                    recite [?] et un Dito du sieur Joseph Lamoureux de la Somme de cent dix sept
                    livres dix sous en pelteris et trente huit livres en paux de chevreuilles a la
                    des ouialtanont au oui le 23 avril 1785. pour m en faire payer sy je peux et
                    Remettre les effet au dit sieur Paul Gamelin ou les dix Billiet
            JACQUES GODFROY.
            [On other side.]
            Receit a compte de [illegible] par Billet De Joseph Lamoureux par Louis Da Bois
                    April 15, 1787
            PAUL GAMELIN ET CIE
            
            [Translation.]
            I acknowledge the receipt from Paul Gamelin of a note signed by Sieur Francois
                    Remaux of the sum of forty-one livres in deer skins [?] and another of Sieur
                    Joseph Lamoureux of the sum of a hundred and seventeen livres and ten sous in
                    peltry [furs] and thirty-eight livres in deer skins at Ouiatenon at the Ouia
                    [Weatown] the 23d of April, 1785, to collect if I am able and send the effects
                    to the said Sieur Paul Gamelin or the said notes.
            JACQUES GODFROY.
            [On the back.]
            Received on account of [illegible] by note of Joseph Lamoureux by Louis Da Bois.
                    April 15, 1787. PAUL GAMELIN & Co.
            [George Leith, 
                        Detroit
                    , to David Gray, Miamitown.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Private
                        Dear David:
                        It is now a long time since I had the pleasure of receiving a few
                                    lines from you; tho' at the same time I can assure you
                                    that it would afford me much satisfaction to hear from you when
                                    you  have a liesure hour, so
                                    I therefore beg you will write me a few lines upon receipt of
                                    this and let me know how your affairs comes on in the Indian
                                    Country as I sincerely wish you great success. I hope you will
                                    be able to get our adventure in Co. with you settled this summer
                                    & that it will turn out well, be that as it may; I am
                                    well convinced you do every thing for the best.
                        Symington & Douglass of Niagara have been obliged to give
                                    up their Effects to their Crs. & Mr. Robertson of this
                                    place transacts their Business at 
                                        Detroit
                                    , he showed me a few days, a very large account the
                                    Estate of Symington & Douglass has against you &
                                    was asking at me when you would come to 
                                        Detroit
                                     I told him I was not certain but imagined you would
                                    be some time this summer.
                        You know very well what kind of a man Robertson is, therefore as
                                    a friend I would advise you not to come to 
                                        Detroit
                                     this summer if you have nothing pressing to bring
                                    you in as he will do everything in his power to detain you
                                    & give you trouble.
                        We have wrote you & Ironside at this time along with the
                                    goods left last fall the numbers of which you have here inclosed
                                    & in expectation of hearing from you on receipt of this
                                    I remain with much regard
                        
                                    Dear David
                                    Yours Sincerely
                                    GEO. LEITH
                           .
                                        
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       Detroit
                                    
                                 
                              ,
                                            3d April 1786.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Addressed.]
            Mr. David Gray
            Merchant Miamis Town
            [George Sharp, Miamis, to Paul Gamelin, 
                        Vincennes
                    .]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Miamy
                           , 23rd Juin,
                                        1786
                        
                        M Gamelin
                        Je viens recevoir quatre Balots de Detroit pour vous qui
                                    j'en-voyé par cette occasion
                                    maqué P G No. 1, 2, 3, 4. J'ai recu aucun
                                    lettre de Detroit avec ils arriveront ici apres demain avec
                                    votre restant vous avez rien a payer pour les hommes, on vous a
                                    Chargé  ici pour
                                    la Portage. Excusez, comme je suis bien pressé.
                                    Croiez moi etre votre sincere ami
                        
                                    GEO. SHARPFaiseur pour la Societé de Miamy
                                    
                                
                        Votre Merchandises sont de la Societé de
                                Miamy
                     
                  
               
                
            [Addressed.]
            Mr. Paul Gamelin, Neg[ocian]t
            P. S. Vincents
            [Memorandum note on back.]
            7 ½ poudre pour Paul Gamelin.
            [Translation.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Miamis
                           , June 23,
                                        1786.
                        Mr. Gamelin:
                        I have just received four bales [packages] from 
                                        Detroit
                                     for you, which I send on this opportunity marked P
                                    G No. 1, 2, 3, 4. I received no letter[s] from 
                                        Detroit
                                     with [them]. They will arrive here the day after
                                    to-morrow with the rest of your goods. You have nothing to pay;
                                    you are charged here with transportation. Pardon, as I am very
                                    much hurried. Believe me your sincere friend,
                        
                                    GEO. SHARP, Agent for the Society of Miami
                                
                        Your goods are from the Society of Miami.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Addressed.]
            Mr. Paul Gamelin, Merchant, 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            [Memorandum.]
            7½ [lbs.] of powder for Paul Gamelin.
            [From George Ironside, Miamis, to David Gray, 
                        Vincennes
                    .]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Miamis
                           
                                    26th November 1786
                                
                        Dear Sir,
                        Yours of the 11th. Currt. I received yesterday, & I
                                    assure you was glad to learn your safe arrival at the Ouias, but
                                    for god's sake dont pay a visit to the lads of the
                                    Vermilion as you did to those on this side of the Ouias, or you
                                    mayn't get so well off.
                        The Dog I have sent to Constant by his man & I dare say
                                    he'll  use him well
                                    as I never saw a man have a greater desire of anything than he
                                    had for the Dog.
                        The Flour I have secured for him & if any opportunity
                                    offers by water to the Ouias this fall I shall forward it, but
                                    there seems to be little appearance of any as the River here is
                                    frozen over. I'm afraid Mr. Mcintosh's goods
                                    & those of the Company must winter here.
                        Tell Mr. Mcintosh I would have sent him down his men by land, but
                                    I thought it better to wait eight or ten days longer, in
                                    expectation of the Water's rising, if they dont they
                                    shall be sent by land along w. those of Mr. Vigo as it serves no
                                    purpose to keep them here, while they may be useful to him at
                                    the Poste.
                        Colas [?] has been at Rochedebout & tells us Trimble
                                    & Steward arrived there from 
                                        Detroit
                                     & report & by that time Meldrum was
                                    dead his horse having stumbled & thrown him &
                                    entirely bruised his stomach & carried away all the
                                    fleshy part of his sore leg.
                        Trimble is. married to a young Irish girl by whom he got
                                    £ 1000 St[erlin]g to return to 
                                        Ireland
                                     along w. David White next summer for good &
                                    all.
                        At Rochedebout the Indians report that the Americans are at
                                    Presquille [on Lake Erie] building large vessels, but as yet it
                                    is not known for certain.
                        There is not a bit of Sealing wax [?] in the house either for
                                    Constant or you or I should have sent it, it went all to the
                                    Poste last Spring
                        
                                    I am
                                    Dear Sir
                                    
                                        Yours Sincerely
                                    
                                    
                                        GEO. IRONSIDE
                              
                                    
                                
                        Mr. D. Gray.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Addressed.]
            Mr. David Gray
            Poste St. Vincennes.
            [George Sharpe, 
                        Detroit
                    , to David Gray, 
                        Vincennes
                    .]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    Detroit
                                 
                              
                           ,
                                        18 Jany 1787.
                        Dear Sir,
                        Since my last nothing new has occurred here of any consequence.
                        
                        I am hopeful my letters in answer to yours from Uhias [Ouia] are
                                    all received and that you are now snugly settled at P. St.
                                    Vincents for the Season.
                        From the peaceable inclination of the Indians it is without a
                                    doubt that you can get safe up next Spring w[it]h your peltry
                                    -as it is intended to have a considerable Quantity of Goods at
                                    Miamis early next Sprmg- If any your eloquence with the French
                                    will prevent any of them from going to N. Orleans indeed I
                                    should think it not safe as in all probability the Spaniards
                                    will retaliate. I hope & request you will inculcate the
                                    best notions in their minds in this respect, it being the prime
                                    object, likewise they should all forward their Peltry uncommonly
                                    early next Spring, in order to have their assortments in time.
                        Please let me know what Quantity of Peltry Messrs Jos. S. Marie,
                                    Chapeau, & Janot may have next Spring. & if Mr.
                                    Makay be returned In my last I inclosed you a draft on F [?] B.
                                    Chapoton for £ 20 [illegible] for a Perroque I sold
                                    him which I hope he will pay – Likewise recommended
                                    it to you to take cognizance of every circumstance whatever
                                    wherein we were interested – In case Mr. Thomson or
                                    Makay should be absent when Criote returns from Cumberland I beg
                                    you will forward him immediately to Miami w[i]t[h] what he has
                                    got, if he should be unfortunate enough to return light please
                                    employ him to Miamis in some ones Perroque who will pay his
                                    wages & Dubois also -
                        Mr. Pollard and Mr. Sinclair are to sett off next week for P.
                                    Vincents I shall write by them, this is only a precarious
                                    conveyance. Neglect not in comp'y with the other
                                    Traders to send us an express early as everything will be done
                                    here to facilitate your affairs – News in my next.
                        Remember the main point, Gray, and no fear
                        
                                    I am Dr Sir Yours Sincerely
                                    GEORGE SHARP.
                                
                         Messr. L. J. Shepherd desire their respects Mr. D.
                                Gray.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Addressed.]
            Mr. David Gray Merchant P. St. Vincents
            
            [George Ironside, Miamis, to David Gray, 
                        Vincennes
                    .]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Miamis
                           
                                    16th Febry 1787
                                
                        Dear Gray,
                        I am favored with yours of 3rd Ulto. inclosing one for Sharp
                                    which after having perused I have forwarded to 
                                        Detroit
                                    . The fate of Chapeau makes me uneasy about your
                                    getting clear of that Cursed Country, for God's sake if
                                    there is any risque be wary how you undertake the Voyage to the
                                    Miamis rather if you think, advisable, if there can be no
                                    communication by 
                                        Detroit
                                     by the Wabache, send them to 
                                        New Orleans
                                    . Macomb desires me not to forward Mclntoshes Goods,
                                    they seem at 
                                        Detroit
                                     to think of leaving off all Intercourse with the
                                    Poste, as the Company writes us the same thing respecting their
                                    Goods in the Store. However you'll not mention this to
                                    any of the Postiques as they would wish to hide this their
                                    resolution till they see if times Change.
                        You will soon have Steward [or Heward] at the Post, he is
                                    expected here daily, in the service of the Co. so that it seems
                                    Sharp does not mean to visit that Corner this Summer. Goods in
                                    all appearance will be very scarce here this summer. The winter
                                    here has been very unfavorable both for the work of the Village
                                    & the Indians hunt, the snow has not been upon the
                                    ground above Eight days the whole winter.
                        We have had a sort of a Dance here once a Week during the winter,
                                    which has made us pass our time pretty agreeably. –
                                    The Different Nations have sent an Embassy to Congress to desire
                                    them to rest on the other side the 
                                        Ohio
                                     & upon these terms they would make peace
                                    w[ith] them, which terms if they dont accept, the Indians are
                                    no[w] holding Council Chez les Chats to advertise all the
                                    different nations upon the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     to hold themselves in readiness early in the Spring
                                    to fall upon them & force them into a Compliance.
                                    Captain David setts off from there in two or three days to
                                    advertise the Chickasaws & Chocktaws &
                                    Cherokees.
                        
                                    I am Dear Sir
                                    Yours Sincerely
                                    GEO. IRONSIDE
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Addressed.]
            Mr. David Gray Post Vincenne
            
            [From Geo. Ironside, unaddressed.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Miamis
                           , 27th.
                                        Febry 1787
                        
                        Dear Sir,
                        Inclosed is a letter from G. Sharp which arrived here yesternight
                                    by an Indian from 
                                        Detroit
                                    . Nothing new from that Quarter. Leith has sent me a
                                    few European News Papers & by all appearances the war
                                    between 
                                        France
                                     & 
                                        England
                                     is not very far off. Nothing else worth
                                    communicating.
                        Shall write you more fully at next opportunity.
                        
                                    I am Dear Sir
                                    Yours Sincerely
                                    GEO. IRONSIDE
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [George Ironside, Miamis, to David Gray.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Miamis
                           
                                    4th. March 1787.
                        Dear Gray,
                        By Cola [?] who arrived here yesterday & sets off today
                                    with Adhemar [St. Martin] I embrace the opportunity to slip you
                                    a few lines.
                        In all appearance the Wabache will be scarcely passable this
                                    Summer unless early in the Spring. For God's Sake, as
                                    soon as you can, set off early from the Post or you will
                                    certainly run a great risque of losing your life Inclosed are
                                    some accts. all I have time to send you they are just going off.
                        
                                    Dr. Si[r]
                                    Yourrs Sre
                                    GEO. IRONSIDE
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [George Ironside, Miamis, to David Gray, 
                        Vincennes
                    .]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Miamis
                           , 15th
                                        March 1787.
                        Dear Sir,
                        The Grandmaster is the Bearer of this, who is sent by the Company
                                    to transact their affairs at your place. I dare say
                                    he'll have occasion to use all his eloquence in their
                                    cause to prevent them from going to 
                                        New Orleans
                                    .
                        Sharp will be here very soon & means to spend the Summer
                                    here.
                        Mr. Leith tells me that if Lorimier goes to 
                                        Detroit
                                     the Major  will
                                    make him make restitution of the things he took of Joe, but
                                    I'm afraid he wont trust himself there.
                        I have searched all the house for Chorette's note of
                                    hand but cant find it pray if it is among your papers send it
                                    up. I mean to make an excursion his way as I hear he has got
                                    some property in his hands at present.
                        Mr. Stewart tells me the Major [Ancrum?] has express orders not
                                    to deliver up 
                                        Detroit
                                     [to the 
                                        United States
                                    ], so that I dare say we shall soon have a general
                                    war. They expect news of Importance by the express from Niagara
                                    which was not arrived St. [mistake for When?] St. left 
                                        Detroit
                                    .
                        Groosbeck is married to Miss Beufait & Rede is going to
                                    be married as soon as Rivard returns from the Ouias to Madmle
                        
                        
                                    Wishing a safe return
                                    I am Dear Sir
                                    Yours Sincerely
                                    GEO. IRONSIDE
                           
                                
                        Mr. David Gray
                     
                  
               
                
            [Addressed.]
            Mr. David Gray Mercht Poste Vincenne
            [George Ironside, Miamis, to David Gray, 
                        Vincennes
                    .]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Miamis
                           , 15th
                                        April 1787
                        
                        Dear Sir
                        By people arrived here from the Poste I have the last accounts of
                                    you since hearing from yourself last January. They tell me you
                                    are in the River St. Francois in pursuit of
                                    Pierre. It is hard if, after so much pains you dont make
                                    something of him, & Alexander gives me some hopes. All
                                    Im afraid of is from the Wabache Indians in your way up, for
                                    Gods sake make information at the Poste before you set off as in
                                    all appearance there will be trouble there this Summer.
                        Bertheaume has made Sixty Packs as Im informed & will be
                                    here in a few days & here I have 21. The trade here is
                                    entirely stopt at present, they wait the arrival of Sharp for
                                    Rum 28 kegs  of which were
                                    sent up all at the same time & are now lodged in the
                                    Store so that little more can be made here this Spring.
                        The Delawares of the White River are all now
                                    settled at the Corns. Towns [?] & the Shawnees are going
                                    to have lands here so that the trade of this place will greatly
                                    augment.
                        I have got little or nothing of Joe but as he takes in his
                                    Credits he gives us them & asks for no goods.
                        The prices of Pelteries [peltries] is yet a Problem but Im afraid
                                    will not be much better than last year. The Company have not an
                                    ounce of Goods till they arrive from 
                                        England
                                     & you'll see a scarcity this
                                    Summer of Indian Goods that has not been experienced in this
                                    Country for a long time.
                        No body has nor will undertake the trading of Rum which occasions
                                    that the best & better part of the Peltry will go to
                                    Rochedebout were it not for that we might yet make a few Packs
                                    here & if Sharp arrives here soon he'll have a
                                        forte Affaire to keep the Store from being
                                    plundered if he wont sell it. They say that as the Grand Master
                                    of the Rum is not here they cant insist upon people selling what
                                    is not their own but as soon as he arrives they think he will
                                    set up Indian Tavern in which he will be waiter.
                        Carleton is now Viceroy of British America. The Canadians on his
                                    arrival mounted him on a Throne which they carried in Triumph to
                                    the Castle of Louis crying long live the benign Carleton the
                                    father of Canadians.
                        Lorimier is fled from the face of his Creditors & gone to
                                    the 
                                        Illinois
                                     may the Devil be his Pilot.
                        I have found a good friend in Maechat [illegible] & found
                                    him to be the man I thought him.
                        
                                    I am
                                    Dr. Sir Yours etc
                                    GEO. IRONSIDE
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Addressed.]
            Mr. David Gray
            Merht Poste Vincennes Forwarded by Mr. Alexander
            
            [Adhemar St. Martin, Miamis, to Paul Gamelin, 
                        Vincennes
                    .]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Miamis
                           , Le 20e
                                        juin 1788
                        
                        Mon cher amy
                        nous sommes arrive a cette place en assez bon Etat mieux que
                                    chSpoton nous lavait annonce. Car sous I'oublie du
                                    papier que Cournoyer Devoit remetre a Constant Je crois
                                    qu'il ne nous en auroit pas Conte une Carote de tabac
                                    Je vous renvoye par Asselin 5 poches, Je vous auroit Envoye une
                                    livre depoivre mais n'y en a point du tout icy. peut
                                    etre cournoyer En apporterat-il Je vous en Envoyerer.
                        Cy joint l'etat de l'argenterie que
                                    j'ay laisse a M. Chapoton vous luy demanderez 
                              150 490} 640 grandes Epinglettes
                              390 petites ditto
                              12 Brasselets a poignet
                              5 grande Croix double
                              1 ditto simple
                              6 moyenne Croix double
                              2 roux d'oreilles
                              1 Brasselets a Bras
                              4 grandes Epinglettes
                              3 noyaux d'argent
                           sur quoy il a Envoyé un fan [?]
                                    d'huile a ma femme seulement je soupconne
                                    qu'il En a Eu d'autre et qu'il a
                                    Envoyé pour luy meme au 
                                        Detroit
                                     qu'importe vous Luy demanderez Compte et
                                    qui vous donne son billet de ce qu'il manquera
                                    apés la valeur du fan d'luile que nous avons
                                    eu rabatu–si toutefois il ne vous remet pas
                                    l'ar-genteries en nature
                        Vons ferez Compte a asselin de 120 lv.–sur quoix vous
                                    raba-terai 50 lv. que jay payé a la Chine sur le
                                    restant vous retienderz votre Compte et reglerer letout avec
                                    luy.
                        Blondiche et moy nous souhaitons Bonnesanté a Madame
                                    et la famille au garcon (est y noir done?) sharp dit
                                    n'avoir point parlé de tout cela, mais il en
                                    a bien rit) Compliment a nos amis vos voisin et Croyez moy votre
                        
                                    Veritable amy
                                    ADHEMAR STMARTIN
                           .
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [Addressed.]
            Monsieur Paul Gamelin
            [Translation.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Miamis
                           , June 20,
                                        1788.
                        My Dear Friend:
                        We arrived at this place in better shape than Chapoton foretold,
                                    for with the forgetting of the paper which Cournoyer was to give
                                    to Constant I believe that it will not have cost us a roll of
                                    tobacco. I send you by Asselin 5 sacks. I would have sent you a
                                    pound of pepper, but there isn't any of it here at all.
                                    Perhaps Cournoyer will bring some of it. I will send you some
                                    [then].
                        Here follows the statement of the silverware which I have left to
                                    Mr. Chapoton. You will ask it of him.
                        
                           150 490 640 large Pins
                           390 small pins
                           12 wrist bracelets
                           5 large double crosses
                           1 large single ditto.
                           6 medium double cross[es].
                           2 ear-rings
                           4 large pins
                           3 silver cores
                        
                        Added to which he has sent a [?] of oil to my wife. But I suspect
                                    that he has another and that he has sent it for himself to 
                                        Detroit
                                    , which means that you must demand an account from
                                    him and he must give you his note for what is lacking after the
                                    value of the [?] of oil which we have has been subtracted, if,
                                    of course, he does not give back the silverware itself.
                        You will have an account with Asselin for 120
                                    livres–from which you will deduct 50 livres which I
                                    have paid [?]. Out of the remainder get back your account and
                                    arrange the whole with him.
                        Blondiche and I wish good health to madame and the family, to the
                                    boy (is it then black there?) Sharp said all that was not spoken
                                    of but he laughed well at it). Compliments to our friends, your
                                    neighbors, and believe me your
                        
                                    Sincere friend,
                                    ADHEMAR ST. MARTIN
                           .
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [George Sharp, Miamis, to Paul Gamelin, 
                        Vincennes
                    ]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Miamis
                           
                                    7th July [I]780
                                
                        Monr Gamelin
                        Mons–
                        J'ar recu Votre lettre comme un grand parti de Votre
                                    ordre etait deja envoyé–je vous envoye ce
                                    qui nous avons ici jusqu au Uhais, comme 1 aux est [illegible]
                                    belle, j'envoye aussi d'ordres a Peyette de
                                    les envoye par la premiere occasion avec les Drap &
                                    Converts des Mons Chapeau–s'il ne trouve pas
                                    de les envoyer il vous avertira–le restant de vos
                                    merchandise s'il n'en restant seront envoy par
                                    Mr Vigo, comme je part pour 
                                        Detroit
                                     Demain. j'ai ènvoye un Voiture
                                    [?] devant mon Tabac au Uhias, avec ordres aux hommes de donner
                                    le preferance a vos pacquets, s'ils peuvent tous amener
                                    ils ameneront tous, sils non, Je ai fait [or] dre a Mr. Metter
                                    d'envoyer le restant comme l'eau est
                                    belle– J'espere que vous n'avez pas
                                    refuser les merchandise par rapport qu'on vous
                                    n'a pas les envoyé avec la premiere
                                    occasion, le plus grand parti de votre ordre n'etoit
                                    pas ici, comme vous pouvez scavior en demandant de Mr. St. Marie
                                    & cie et bien sachant que on recevra ces articles les
                                    premieres jours apres lieur Depart. Je croies que a serve mieux
                                    de les envoyer tous ensemble–et si Mr. Bondy avoit
                                    retarder comme il m'avoit promi, vous les aurez eu il
                                    est longtemps, & tous ceux qu'ils sout parti
                                    d'ici au poste peuvent bien vous dire s'ils
                                    veulent. comme je me suis in-teressé pour votre
                                    Peltry, ainsi vous me ferez j' espere aucunes
                                    reproaches, sil le merchandise n'etoit pas ici daus les
                                    temps, je ne peuvoit pas les envoyé–mais
                                    apres tout en tous cas que vous ne pourrez sans vous faire tort
                                    accepter les merchandise, vous avez que donner toutes a Mr.
                                    Robert Makay & le restant del'ordre sera
                                    toujours envoye, soit a vous ou a lui comme il vous plaira
                        Cependant je crois que vous vois bien vos interets et que vous
                                    prenderez pas de Merchandises ailleur que de Nous, voyant qui
                                    nous cherchons que faciliter notre Praitque, & de lieur
                                    donner le Merchandises ici au pris de Detroit sans frais ou
                                    risque
                        Mes Compliments a Mr. Dajenet & Gamelin & je suis
                                    avec respect
                        
                                    Votre Serviteur
                                    GEO. SHARP Faiseur
                                        pour le Societé de Miamis
                                
                        
                        Je vous envoye au Uhias a present P G une Balot No 5 une
                                    [illegible] Blanc.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Addressed.]
            Monsieur Paul Gamelin Mcht
            Poste St Vincents
            [Translation.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Miamis
                           , July 7,
                                        1789.
                        Mr. Gamelin,
                        Sir:–
                        I received your letter when a large part of your order had
                                    already been sent on. I sent you what we have here as far as the
                                    Ouia [Ouitenon] as the water is good. I send also orders to
                                    Peyette to send them on the first opportunity with the cloth and
                                    covers of Mr. Chapoton. If he does not get [an opportunity] to
                                    send them he will warn you. The rest of your merchandise, if
                                    there is nothing else, will be sent by Mr. Vigo as I start for 
                                        Detroit
                                     to-morrow. I have sent a messenger [?] before my
                                    tobacco with orders to the men to give the preference to your
                                    packages. If they can take them all they will take them all, if
                                    not, I have given orders to Mr. Metter to send the remainder
                                    when the water is good. I hope that you have not refused the
                                    merchandise on the ground that it was not sent you on the first
                                    opportunity. The larger part of your order was not here, as you
                                    could know by asking Mr. St. Marie and Company and knowing well
                                    that these articles will be received within a few days after
                                    their departure I believe it better to send them all together.
                                    And if Mr. Bondy had waited as he promised me, you would have
                                    had them long ago. And all those who have started out from here
                                    to the post [
                                        Vincennes
                                    ] can easily tell you if they wish how I have
                                    interested myself in your peltry.
                        So you will not reproach me, I hope, if the merchandise should
                                    not be there in time. I could not send them. But, after all, in
                                    any case that you can not, without injury to yourself, accept
                                    the goods, you have only to give them all to Mr. Robert Makay
                                    and the rest of the order will in every case be sent either to
                                    you or to him as it pleases you.
                        However, I believe that you see your own interests clearly and
                                         that you will not take
                                    goods elsewhere than from us, seeing that we try only to
                                    accommodate our customers and to give them goods here at the 
                                        Detroit
                                     price without expense or risk.
                        My compliments to Messrs. Dajenet & Gamelin. I am with
                                    best regards
                        
                                    Your servant,
                                    GEO. SHARP Agent
                                        for the Society of Miamis.
                                
                        I send you at Ouia at present P G a package No 5 a []
                                    white.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Adhemar St. Martin, Miamis, to Paul Gamelin, 
                        Vincennes
                    .]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Miamis
                           , Le 18
                                        Aoust 1789
                        
                        a Mousieur Paul Gamelin
                        Mon cher amy
                        Je ne say comme cellecy vous parviendra, a tout hazard je vous
                                    souhaite a tous une Bonne santé et meilleur reussite
                                    dans vos affaires, que parmy nous–comme je pense que
                                    vous avez retiré quelques choses de mes debiteurs je
                                    vous prie payer a M. Cour-noyer trois ou quarte cents francs en
                                    pelteries, cette somme avec l'argenterie qu'il
                                    a eu l'automne derniere approchra la Balance de mon
                                    Compte avec luy, et s'il manqurit quelques choses,
                                    aprés compté régié
                                    je luy remetré, cest pour le tabac quil a
                                    l'aissé chez moy Lété
                                    dernier que j'ay prit pour mon compte, je me flate que
                                    vous arrangerez cela avec lui–Si vous avez du tabac
                                    envoyer en trois ou quatre Balots Si vous trouvez occation
                                    jusqu'au ouias, pour lors je serez a meme de
                                    l'avoir en cas de Besoin
                        Je ne vous parlerez pas de nos affairs car je Crois quelle ne
                                    vont mieux que cy devant. Si cependant vous avez de Bonne
                                    nouvelle a m'en appendre faites moy les savior cela
                                    flatte tou-jours Bien des Compliments a vos dames et famille a
                                    nos amis commun Brouillet, etc et suis de tout coeur
                        
                                    Votre trés humble serviteur
                                    ADHEMAR ST. MARTIN.
                                    Mon cher amy
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [Addressed.]
            Au Monsieur
            Monsieur Paul Gamelin au poste Vincenne.
            [Translation.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Miamis
                           , August
                                        18, 1789.
                        To Mr. Paul Gamelin,
                        My dear friend:–
                        I do not know how this will get to you, but at any chance I wish
                                    you all a good health and a better success in your affairs than
                                    there is among us. As J think that you have gotten something out
                                    of your debtors I pray you to pay Mr. Cournoyer three or four
                                    hundred francs in peltries, that sum with the silver which he
                                    had last autumn will nearly equal the balance of my account with
                                    him, and if he should be short anything after settlement I will
                                    send it to him; it is for the tobacco which he left with me last
                                    summer which I took for my account, I flatter myself that you
                                    will arrange that with him. If you have any tobacco send two or
                                    three packages of it if you find occasion, for then I will be
                                    able to have it in case of need.
                        I will not speak to you of our affairs for I think they are not
                                    going better than formerly. If, however, you have any good news
                                    to tell me, let me know; that is always pleasing. Many
                                    compliments to your ladies and family [and] to our common
                                    friends, Broulett, etc., and I am with all my heart, my dear
                                    friend
                        
                                    Your very humble servant,
                                    ADHEMAR ST. MARTIN.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [From Josiah Bleakley, Cahokia, to unknown.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Cahokia
                           , March 4,
                                        1795.
                        Dear Sir:
                        We arrived at Kaskaskias early in the evening of the fourth day
                                    from Riviere des Embarras.
                        The 26th day ulto at daybreak a party of Americans, Sixteen in
                                    number, attacked some Miamis Lodges that were encamped within
                                    three leagues of this village, hunting and making sugar. They
                                    had been there about twenty days and consisted of Eleven men, I
                                    know not how many women and children. Seven men were kild and
                                    one wounded, also, by accident firing in the Lodges  two women & one Girl
                                    wounded, one of the women are since dead. There was a tolerable
                                    Booty taken, Eight horses Six rifles Six packs of Skins and
                                    furs, Kettles Axes etc.–The Americans had three men
                                    of the Whiteside family wounded, but not dangerously. I am
                                    afraid this affair will cause some Indian partys Shortly to turn
                                    out, and be very troublesome to the Settlement. No news from 
                                        Canada
                                     nor 
                                        New Orleans
                                    . Trade here very bad, we had great hopes from the
                                    Mississipy, letters just arrived worse than last year. The
                                    Riviere du Moin has done pretty well. Please present my
                                    respectfull Compliments to Mrs. Vanderburgh Mr. Bird Mr. Evans
                                    & the Doctor. I am Dr Sir
                        
                                    With Esteem
                                    Your most obt & afft Servt
                                    JOSIAH BLEAKLEY.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Unaddressed.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              New Madrid
                           , March
                                        19th, 1798.
                        Sir:
                        I received your letter of last Month respecting a House and Lot
                                    in St. Vincennes which I claim under a Purchase from John
                                    Baptist Barcelow, whose Rect I have in February 1792 for one
                                    hundred Pounds french weight of Beaver Fur.
                        From what I have been able to Learn there is little Doubt but
                                    that this Mr. J. B. Barcelow has the Right to Sell, nor does it
                                    appear that he has ever sold to any one else; I am told indeed
                                    that his Father in his Life Time made some conveyance of this
                                    Lot; but his Father had no Authority for this Act and the Son
                                    when he arrives to Age must convey his own Property. This Lot
                                    was never the Right of the Father, but was conveyed to John
                                    Baptist Barcelow; who is now willing to Convey it to me or my
                                    Assigns.
                        If you care to take Mr. Barcelow's Right, I shall be
                                    willing to take a hundred & fifty Pounds french Wt.
                                    Beaver Fur for it.
                        
                                    I am Sir
                                    Your very Obed. Servt.
                                    RICHD. J. WATERS.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            INTERNAL IMPROVEMENTS IN INDIANA, 1818–1846.
            
                    BY MARGARET DUDEN.
                
            THE State system of internal improvements which was adopted by Indiana, in 1836,
                    was not a new measure; nor did the adoption of the system, at that time, grow
                    out of a new and hasty expression of popular sentiment. For a period of more
                    than ten years the expediency of providing by law for the commencement of a
                    State system of public works had been discussed before the people of the State
                    by governors, legislators and distinguished citizens."
            The central and northern part of Indiana had felt a need of a system of internal
                    improvements. "The experience of the northwestern campaigns of the War
                    of 1812 had demonstrated the futility of military operations with inadequate
                    means of transporting troops and supplies. A national military highway across
                    the Old Northwest was demanded."
            As early as 1818, Governor Jennings, in his message, urged the consideration of a
                    system of canals and roads, saying: "The internal improvement of the
                    State forms a subject of greatest importance and deserves the most serious
                    attention. Roads and canals are calculated to afford facilities to the
                    commercial transactions connected with the exports and imports of the country,
                    by lessening the expenses and time attendant, as well on the transportation of
                    the bulky articles which compose our exports, as on the importation of articles,
                    the growth and manufactures of foreign countries, which luxury and habit have
                    rendered too common and almost indispensible to our consumption." A
                    system of canals would arouse "a more general intercourse between
                    citizens, which never fails, in a great measure, to remove the jealousies of
                    local interests, and the embittered violence of political feuds, which too often
                    produce the most undignified results to our republican institutions."
            In 1822 Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     conjointly began to adopt measures for the improvement of the Grand
                    Rapids of the Wabash River.
            
            This was a definite step toward the development of the 
                        Wabash
                     route as something more than a waterway of canoe trade.
            And in 1823 the subject of connecting the Maumee and Wabash
                    Rivers by a canal navigation was considered by the legislatures of
                    both Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    .
            "The Erie Canal had just been completed. Indiana was a growing State,
                    but it was hindered by its poor facilities for getting to market its surplus
                    products. The only market open to Indiana was that of the South. They were
                    dependent upon the flatboats which carried the surplus products to the southern
                    markets. Those countries bordering on the Ohio river were
                    the fortunate ones, for the interior settlements were practically cut off from
                    any market, except in the fall and spring."
            So in 1822 we find the following statements in Governor Hendricks'
                    message to the General Assembly, December, 1822: "We ought to leave
                    free and unshackled, as far as we can, our resources for improvement, and
                    purposes which the interests of the State may hereafter require, if not at our
                    hands, at the hands of those who succeed us. In this way we shall best discharge
                    our own duties, and not consult the interests of the community. Let us not lose
                    sight of those great objects to which the means of the State should, at some
                    future day be devoted–the navigation of the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    , the improvement of the 
                        Wabash
                    , the White river and other
                    streams,–and the construction of the national and other roads through
                    the State."
            In December, 1826, Governor Ray delivered the following statement, before the
                    Assembly: "On the construction of roads and canals, then, we must rely,
                    as the safest and most certain State policy, to relieve our situation, place us
                    among the first States in the Union, and change the cry of ‘hard
                    times’, into an open acknowledgment of contentedness."
                    "We must strike at the internal improvement of the State, or form our
                    minds to remain poor and unacquainted with each other."
            In his message of 1827 Governor Ray again favors internal improvements,
                    especially since the Federal Government had given land to Indiana, estimated to
                    be worth $1,250,000, to aid in the construction of a canal connecting
                    Lake Erie with, the  Wahash river, and in
                    -making a–read from Lttke- 
                        Michigan
                     through 
                        Indianapolis
                     to the Ohio river.
            In 18.32 the Internal Improvement work was begun. Mr. Cochrum in his history
                    calls attention to the fact that the Asiatic cholera had caused many deaths in
                    Indiana that year, and that the corn crops had failed; yet the canal
                    commissioners completed their surveys and prepared bonds, which were sold in 
                        New York
                     to the amount of $1,000,000 at a large premium.
            "The work of opening a road from Lake Michigan,
                    through 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Madison
                    , on the River Ohio, was begun, under the
                    authority of the State, in 1830, and in 1832 the construction of that part of
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal which lies within the borders of Indiana."
                    The amount spent for the improvement of the 
                        Michigan
                    .road was $54,000, of which $52,000 was
                    realized from the sale of land, appropriated for its construction.
            "The 
                        Michigan
                     road began at Trail Creek on Lake Michigan;
                    the road runs easterly to the southern bend of the St. Joseph
                    river; thence southward to the Wabash River,
                    which it crosses; thence to 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; thence southeast to 
                        Greensburg
                    ; thence south again to 
                        Madison
                    ." This road served as a route for immigration, but it lost
                    its usefulness when the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal was built.
            In 1832, thirty-two miles of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal were placed under contract.
            Little progress was made during the first year, although local interest ran high.
                    Meetings were held along the line to promote the rapid building of the canal.
                    Committees worked to secure, legislative action for additional surveys. The
                    scarcity of. good material for locks and waterways proved the greatest obstacle.
                    By 1834 a small part near Ft. Wayne had been completed, and the first canal boat
                    launched.
            The enthusiasm for the canal was great at the very beginning. "The old
                    Northwest is especially well adapted to the development of canals. The broad
                    strip between the Ohio river and the lakes is remarkably
                    void of elevations deserving the names of mountains. Sluggish streams abound
                    through its vast plains. Broad alluvial valleys follow the larger streams and
                    invite the  construction of canals and
                    railroads. Few locks were necessary, and the material like timber and stone were
                    close at hand."
            During the year 1835, the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal was rapidly constructed. The middle division
                    extending from St. Joseph river to the forks of the 
                        Wabash
                    -, was completed. This finished section was thirty-one miles in
                    length and cost $232,000.
            But, in the meantime, it had been necessary to make another loan of
                    $400,000. Transferable certificates of stock, 6 per cent., for
                    twenty-five years, were issued.
            Nevertheless by the middle of summer boats were running on this part of the
                    canal.
            During the period 1830-1835, the population of Indiana increased greatly. The
                    necessity for roads and means of transportation grew with the population. The
                    financial success of the Erie canal aroused among the newer States a similar
                    enthusiasm for internal improvements.
            Accordingly a bill, known as the Mammoth Bill, was presented to the Legislature
                    of 1835. The cost of the system was estimated at $5,910,000. The plan
                    provided for an extensioa of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal from 
                        Tippecanoe
                     to 
                        Lafayette
                    ; also for a network of connecting canals, railroads and turnpikes.
                    The discussions upon this bill were animated, nevertheless it failed at the
                    first session, because of a demand for more definite information.
            In 1835 the Legislature appropriated the sum of $227,000. to extend
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal from the mouth of the Tippecanoe
                    river to 
                        Lafayette
                    . The same legislature desired to investigate the feasibility of the
                    Mammoth Bill, therefore it provided for a series of surveys.
            During the elections of 1835, the question of internal improvements became an
                    issue.
            The General Assembly met December, 1836, and Governor Noble in his message
                    recommended the expenditure of $10,000,-000 on such a system of
                    internal improvements.
            The Legislature passed a bill providing for a system of improvements, which had
                    been introduced on January 27, 1836. In the House sixty-five had voted for it,
                    and in the Senate it passed with a two-thirds majority.
            
            This bill provided for a Board of Internal Improvements, which was to consist of
                    nine members. These members were to receive their appointment from the governor.
            The act benefited all sections of the State, for it provided for a system of
                    trunpikes, canals and railroads, with the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal and the Ohio river as the main
                    arteries.
            The passage of this act caused great rejoicing throughout the State. It was
                    expected and believed that the revenuesthe State would enjoy from the various
                    works would make taxation unnecessary. The system was expected to make all men
                    rich. A period of wild speculation followed. Trading of air kind became active.
                    The provisions of the Act of 1836 are as follows:
            I. The Whitewater Canal was to extend from 
                        Hagerstown
                     to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . The act provided for a connection between the said Whitewater
                    canal, and the Central canal, either a connection by canal or by railroad. One
                    million four hundred thousand dollars was appropriated. If 
                        Ohio
                     declined to construct the part of the canal which would be in her
                    territory, the commissioners were to construct a railroad from some point near
                    Harrison to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , wholly within Indiana. (This canal had been agitated as early as
                    1822. The survey and location and contracts for building the various sections
                    were let at Brook-ville September 13,. 1836, under the auspices of the State.
                    The canal was completed from the Ohio river to 
                        Brookville
                    , as well as about one-half of the work from 
                        Brookville
                     to 
                        Cambridge City
                    , in 1839. The session of 1841-'42 Legislature chartered
                    the Whitewater Valley Company, with a capital stock of
                    $400,000. In October, 1843, the canal was extended from 
                        Brookville
                     fifteen miles to Laurel; to 
                        Connersville
                    , twelve miles farther, in June, 1845! and October, 1845, it was
                    completed to 
                        Cambridge City
                    . The entire cost to the company was $743,000. It was
                    operated for several years until the Whitewater Valley
                    railroad superseded it. The canal company constructed the canal only as far as 
                        Cambridge City
                    . In 1846 the 
                        Hagerstown
                     Canal Company was organized and the canal reached that place in
                    1847. But the canal soon fell into disuse except as a source of water-power.)
            II. The Central canal, 290 miles. This canal was to begin  at some suitable point on the_ 
                        Wabash
                     and JErie canal, between Ft. Wayneand Logansport; it was to run to
                    Muncietownj thence to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , thence down the valley of the west fork of said river, thence to 
                        Evansville
                     on the 
                        Ohio
                    . The appropriation was $3,500,000.
            (The section from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Broad Ripple was the. only completed portion. The work was begun
                    in 1837,. and prosecuted up to 1838. A great deal of work was done on the canal
                    between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     town. The canal was almost completed from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to the bluffs of White river when the Board of
                    Internal Improvements failed. The Legislature authorized the sale of the Central
                    canal to outside parties. It was sold to parties in 
                        New York
                    . Now it is owned by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Water Company.)
            III. An extension of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal from the mouth of the Tippecanoe
                    river down.the valley of the 
                        Wabash
                     to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , therree by route surveyed on Eel river, so as
                    to connect it with the Central canal at the point designated in the said survey,
                    or else by the most practicable route from 
                        Terre Haute
                    , so as to connect with the mouth of Black creek, in 
                        Knox
                     county. The appropriation was $I,300,000.
            IV. A Railroad from 
                        Madison
                    , through 
                  Columbus,
                            Indianapolis
                and 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , to 
                        Lafayette
                    . Appropriation $1,-300,000.
            (The State began this work and completed twenty-eight miles, and incurred
                    one-half the expense of grading and bridging the next twenty-eight miles. The
                    heavy work on the 
                        Madison
                     plane, the high embankments and bridges, and the deep cuts south of
                    Vernon, caused this part of the road to cost at the rate of $40,-OOQ
                    a mile. The part finished by the company, from Six Mill creek to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , cost the company which took possession of it in February, 1843,
                    less than $8,000 a mile.)
            V. A Macadamized Turnpike Road from 
                        New Albany
                     through Greenville, thence as near Fredricksburg as practicable,
                    through PaoIL Mount Pleasant and 
                        Washington
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    . The appropriation was $1,150,000.
            VI. A re-survey of the Teffersonville-
                        Crawfordsville
                     route.  If practical to build
                    either a railroad, or a turnpike, beginning at 
                        Salem
                    .
            VII. The sum of $50,000 was appropriated for the removal of
                    obstructions to navigation in the Wabash River between its
                    mouth and the town of 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            VIII. Erie and 
                        Michigan
                     Canal or Railway; was to begin at or near Ft. Wayne and run to
                        Lake Michigan, near 
                        Michigan City
                    , by way of 
                  Goshen,
                            South Bend
                and Laporte,
                    if this route was practicable.
            (No part of the Erie and 
                        Michigan
                     canal was ever completed.)
            A loan of $10,000,000 had to be made in order to begin this system.
            In 1836, thirty-one miles of the Whitewater canal from Law-renceburg to 
                        Brookville
                     was placed under contract, also twenty-three miles of the Central
                    canal, which was to pass through 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Twenty miles of the southern division of this work, from 
                        Evansville
                     into the interior, was also placed-under contract, and the
                    cross-cut canal from 
                        Terre Haute
                     to where it intersected the Central canal near the mouth of
                        Eel river, was all under contract for construction.
            As soon as the work was begun, there was a great desire on the part of the people
                    to see it finished without delay.
            In his message of 1836, Governor Noble feared, "That the rapid
                    disbursement of money would lead to extravagance, high-living, and then a
                    reaction, when the system would become a burden."
            If all the works authorized had been completed, they would have cost
                    $30,000,000, and the whole tolls would not have paid for the repairs
                    of the first twenty years. In many places public works were begun where there
                    was no surplus of labor or of produce, and here the lot speculator was the only
                    person who could be profited. It was a fortunate thing that the credit of the
                    State failed before all the indebtedness contemplated had been incurred.
            The Auditor's report for 1848 appears as follows:
            
            COST
            
               
                  COST
               
               
                  Jefferson & 
                                Crawfordsville
                             Road
                  $ 339,183.78
               
               
                  
                     
                                Lafayette
                             & 
                                Indianapolis
                             Road
                  73,142.87
               
               
                  
                     
                                Wabash
                             Rapids
                  14,288.42
               
               
                  White Water Canal
                  1,092,175.13
               
               
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             & 
                                Indianapolis
                             Road
                  1,624,603.05
               
               
                  
                     
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal, East of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            
                  
                  3,055,268.97
               
               
                  
                     
                                Wabash
                             & Erie Canal, West of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            
                  
                  1,245,290.54
               
               
                  
                     Eel River Cross Cut
                  436,189.88
               
               
                  S. Division of Central Canal
                  575,646.49
               
               
                  
                     
                                Wabash
                             and 
                                Ohio
                             Canal
                  9,169.94
               
               
                  
                     
                                New Albany
                             & 
                                Vincennes
                             R. R
                  696,516.47
               
               
                  N. Division of Central Canal
                  882,088.93
               
               
                  Erie and 
                                Michigan
                             Canal
                  160,708.87
               
               
                   
                  $10,204,273.39
               
            
            SUMS RECEIVED FOR TOLL.
            
               
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             & 
                                Indianapolis
                             R. R
                  $ 85,436.68
               
               
                  
                     
                                Wabash
                             & Erie Canal (east)
                  1,174,611.83
               
               
                  
                     
                                Wabash
                             & Erie Canal (west)
                  526,847.61
               
               
                  
                     
                                New Albany
                             & 
                                Vincennes
                             Road
                  27,311.34
               
               
                  Northern Division of Central Canal
                  15,008.76
               
               
                   
                  $ 1,829,216.22
               
            
            "The causes for the disastrous outcome were various. The financial
                    distress which swept over the country in 1837 was partly to blame." The
                    tolls were insufficient, and the authorities lost largely by selling bonds on
                    credit. In several cases the purchaser failed through unsuccessful speculation
                    to be able to meet his obligations to the State. When the crash came there was a
                    general suspension of every sort of business. The State's financial
                    ruin was great.
            In 1839, the entire State system of public works was paralyzed. The State could
                    not find purchasers for its bonds. The payments of the contractors ceased on
                    their contracts. The board could no longer meet its obligations, and
                    consequently abandoned all work in August, 1839.
            
            In order to provide means for the payment of the contractors, and other public
                    creditors, the Legislature authorized an issue of State treasury notes to the
                    amount of $1,500,000. These notes formed a circulating medium which
                    for a brief period passed at its normal value, but early in the summer of 1842,
                    when there was about $1,000;000 of this currency in circulation among
                    the people, it suddenly depreciated in value from 40 to 50 per cent.
            The"" Legislature of 1841 passed a law. authorizing any private
                    company to take charge of, and to complete any of the works, with the exception
                    of the 
                        Wabash
                     and 'Erie Canal, which was retained by the State. The act
                    abolished the Board of Internal Improvements, the office of fund commissioner
                    and chief engineer. It provided also for a State agent who was to perform the
                    duties of the fund commissioner.
            By 1841 the State debt grew to $13,148,453 of which
                    $9,464,453 was on account of the internal improvement system. This
                    sum steadily increased because of the unpaid interest. On the other hand,
                    Indiana had two hundred miles of canal in use, yielding $5,000 in
                    'tolls, two railroads yielding $26,000 annually, and several
                    useless fragments of canals.
            The Cross Cut canal, and the southern division of the Central canal, on which
                    little had been accomplished, became integral parts of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie waterway on its extension to the Ohio
                    river.
            The State made several attempts to finish the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal, and in 1841, it was successfully operated from Ft.
                    Wayne to 
                        Lafayette
                    , and paid a fair revenue to the State, In 1841 and 1845 Congress
                    made a second and third grant of land to aid in the construction of the canal.
                    But all. these efforts were futile.
            The Legislature of 1845 had two problems which confronted it. (1) To complete the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal; (2) To manage the State debt.
            Indiana, however, was not the only State which had embarrassing financial
                    conditions, as 
                  Pennsylvania,
                            Maryland, Michigan
                and 
                        Illinois
                     defaulted in their payments of interest.
            At this time the dissatisfied creditors both of Europe and  America, appointed a Mr. Charles Butler as their
                    agent, in order that he should endeavor to obtain relief for the bondholders.
            The Legislature of 1846 finally solved the problem by passing the Butler Bill.
                    This bill divided the State debt into two parts. As to the one part, the State
                    agreed to pay interest and ultimately the principal out of taxation. For the
                    interest and principal of the other half, the creditors consented to look to.
                    the revenues of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal. This canal was placed under a board of trustees,
                    one member of which was to be chosen by the State Legislature, and two members
                    were to be selected by the bondholders. The canal was not placed in the hands of
                    the bondholders, but the canal was placed in trust for their benefit.
            In 1847 the, board met. Mr. Butler was chosen president. The newly organized
                    board of trustees received the 
                        Wabash
                     wid Erie canal in 1847. It was completed by this management to 
                        Terre Haute
                     in. 1849, and to 
                        Evansville
                     in 1854. The entire length of the canal in Indiana was 375 miles.
                    It extended 84 miles in 
                        Ohio
                    . This made a total of 459 miles. The enormous work, which cost so
                    many million dollars, lasted only a few years, owing to its being paralleled the
                    entire length by railroads. The canal caused a large emigration to the sections
                    for many miles on both sides of the canal throughout its entire length.
            Thirty-eight counties in Tndiarra~ and nearly nine counties in 
                        Illinois
                    , including an average of 22,000 square miles, were directly
                    affected by the canal.
            In 1874, the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal was abandoned. The court ordered a sale of the
                    canal. The property with the right of way and lands were sold February 12, 1877,
                    to speculators, but no attempt was made to repair and maintain the canal. It
                    rapidly fell into complete ruin, and as a money-making institution the canal had
                    utterly failed.
            Many towns which had suddenly sprung into existence as promising centers, have
                    passed with the canal, as for example Lagro, Lewisburg, 
                        Georgetown
                    , Carrolton, Americus and Lock-port, all of which are almost
                    forgotten. Miss Coman, in her Industrial History of the 
                        United States
                    , says: "We see then 
                    that the crisis of 1837 checked the mania for canal building none too soon. Much
                    of the capital so invested was lost, for the canal was destined to be superseded
                    by the railroad. Canal traffic was often interfered with by slack water, floods
                    and frosts; the traffic was necessarily slow. A railroad can be built through
                    the mountainous country at one-third of the cost of a canal, and over heights
                    water can not be conducted over."
            And so in Indiana we find the railroads, which were usually built by joint stock
                    companies and chartered by the State Legislatures, taking the place of canals.
                    But the construction of railroads forms another chapter of Indiana history.
         
         
         
            POLITICAL LETTERS OF THE POST-BELLUM DAYS.
            FROM THE DOOUTTIE CORRESPONDENCE WITH THOMAS A. HENDRICKS.
            
               CONTRIBUTED BY MR. DUANE MOWRY, MILWAUKEE.
            IN the letters which follow will be found a touch of the political feeling which
                    existed shortly after the war between the States. The authors of the letters and
                    Mr. Doolittle, to whom they were addressed, played an important part in the
                    political drama of the time. They were all prominent public characters, and
                    their patriotism was always beyond 'question.
            The originals of the letters are in the possession of the contributor, and they
                    have never appeared in print. The student of Indiana history will, it is
                    believed, be glad to know of these letters and to peruse them.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 
                              
                           ,
                                        Aug. 31, 1871.
                        Hon. James R. Doolittle
                        My Dear Sir:
                        Your kind note of the 29th is rec'd. I was gratified at
                                    your flattering nomination, & that you promptly
                                    accepted. Our paper publishes your speech this morning,
                                    & I will have the pleasure of reading it this-evening.
                        How far we will be able, from this State, to help in your
                                    canvass, I can not now say. 
                                        Ohio
                                     has made demands upon us, which must be respected,
                                    too. I will advise you. Indiana owes you all the help she can
                                    give.
                        I fear you will feel an adverse wind from the charges made by the
                                        
                              
                                            New York
                                         Times against the City & County
                                    officers, but I feel sure you will achieve much in this contest.
                                    You will have the heart of the Indiana democracy with you.
                        
                                    With warmest wishes,
                                    Truly yours,
                                    T. A. HENDRICKS.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [NOTE.–This letter refers to the nomination of
                    Judge Doolittle by the Democratic party of 
                        Wisconsin
                     as its candidate for governor. And the speech mentioned was Mr.
                    Doolittle's acceptance of the nomination. The reputation of ex-Senator
                    Doolittle as a campaign orator was well known throughout the country, and was
                    essentially national in its scope and character. It was recognition of this fact
                    that induced Mr. Hendricks to say that the democracy of Indiana owed Mr.
                    Doolittle all the help it could give him. Reciprocal political assistance was
                    due him.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Private.
                                
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 
                              
                           ,January
                                        27, 1877.
                        
                        Hon. James R. Doolittle
                        My Dear Sir:
                        Your favor of the 25th is rec'd. I take it for granted
                                    that Judge Davis will not resign before the 4th March. I think
                                    he will favor Drummond as his successor–but do not
                                    know. He is a good judge but an ultra opponent of the Democrats.
                                    Mr. Senator McDonald will have a good deal of influence in the
                                    opposition. You had better write to him at once. Should Gov.
                                    Tilden & myself be declared elected I cannot yet say
                                    what will be my position towards the administration touching
                                    appointments. It has heretofore been held that the V. President
                                    can have nothing to say. I do not see any reason for that, and I
                                    am sure no such rule ought to apply to myself, nominated as I
                                    was. I will be very glad to see you appointed. I will drop a
                                    note to Senator McDonald, that he may not commit himself. In ten
                                    or twelve days we will know who is to control the appointment.
                                    Should Judge Swayne be the 5th man of the Court, I will feel
                                    that the result is very doubtful. He is an intensely bitter
                                    partisan.
                        
                                    Truly yrs,
                                    T. A. HENDRICKS.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [NOTE.–This letter deals with questions growing out
                    of the campaign when it was claimed that Samuel J. Tilden and Thomas A.
                    Hendricks were elected President and Vice-President, respectively, of the 
                        United States
                    . Judge David Davis had recently been elected 
                        United States
                     Senator from 
                        Illinois
                    . This would cause a vacancy on the 
                        United States
                     circuit court bench. 
                    Evidently, Mr. Doolittle was seeking to have this appointment go to him. And he
                    was interesting Mr. Hendricks in his behalf, in case the Democratic candidates
                    for President and Vice-President were given the certificates of election.
                    Subsequent events, however, established the success of the Republican
                    candidates, Hayes and Wheeler, and with it went the hopes and ambitions of Judge
                    Doolittle. This letter has some interest as giving some estimate of officers in
                    the public eye at the time of its writing. It shows, too, a warm place in Mr.
                    Hendricks's bosom for his political friend and associate, ex-Senator
                    Doolittle, of 
                        Wisconsin
                    .]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Governor's Island, N. Y.
                           ,
                                        September 14, 1880.
                        Hon. James R. Doolittle
                        
                           
                                        Chicago
                                    , Ill.,
                        My Dear Sir:
                        This morning brings in the good news from 
                                        Maine
                                     where you have rendered such valuable service.
                        I have requested that your 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     speech be distributed throughout the country: I
                                    believe it treats nearly all the leading questions; but if on
                                    revision you find that you did not cover all the vital issues, I
                                    take the liberty of suggesting that you seize an opportunity to
                                    do so, in order that the record of this campaign may be valuable
                                    in history. I am aware of the extent and thoroughness of your
                                    labors: I intend in the foregoing remark not to depreciate them,
                                    but to indicate the obligations you are under by your ability
                                    and your relation to parties, to treat the great governmental
                                    questions at issue, for the benefit of our countrymen now and
                                    hereafter.
                        
                                    I am,
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    WINF'D S. HANCOCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [NOTE.–General Hancock's reference to a
                    speech which Judge Doolittle delivered in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the presidential campaign makes this letter a bit of
                    interesting political history. It also emphasizes the great influence and power
                    of Mr. Doolittle as an effective campaigner. The speech, of course, was
                    delivered some time during the fall of 1880, and prior to the date of the letter
                    of General Hancock.]
            
            The subjoined letter from Judge Doolittle to Mr. Hendricks is valuable from
                    several points of view. It deals with interesting data connected with President
                    Johnson's administration, with which, of course, Judge Doolittle was
                    very familiar. What he says about that administration may be regarded as
                    authoritative, because his confidential relations with it are matters of
                    history. He was a confidential adviser of Mr. Johnson, and he had been
                    previously of Mr. Lincoln. Mr. Doolittle's discussion of the political
                    outlook with his political friend is interesting, if not altogether convincing.
                    He was right in predicting the nomination of Mr. Cleveland for President. But it
                    seems that Mr. Hendricks was to be his running mate. However, those of us who
                    knew Judge Doolittle, believe his letter was entirely honest and sincere. He
                    thought here was the opportunity to win a State and a national victory at the
                    same time.
            It is difficult to find many letters prepared by Judge Doolittle in his private
                    correspondence. It was not his practice to keep copies of his letters, but this
                    seems to be an exception to the rule. A diligent search has been made to find,
                    if possible, Mr. Hendricks's reply, but it has not been discovered. It
                    would be interesting to know what was his answer to Mr. Doolittle's
                    suggestion to stand for governor.
            The readers of your quarterly are to be congratulated to have the opportunity to
                    read this interesting letter. It has never been offered for publication before.
            DUANE MOWRY.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Milwaukee, Wis.
                           ,
                                        October 18, 1909.
                        
                           
                              Racine, Wis.
                           ,
                                        June 19, 1884.
                        Hon. Thos. A. Hendricks.
                        My Dear Sir–
                        Upon conference with Mr. Kimball, one of my intimate friends, I
                                    have determined to write you upon a matter of great personal
                                    interest to you, and to our cause.
                        After I saw Mr. Tilden, at his home, at Graystone, last November,
                                    I knew his candidacy was simply impossible. Your name was so
                                    associated with his upon the "old ticket," in
                                    the memories, affections, and, if you please, in the patriotic
                                    indignation of the whole Democratic party of the country, that a
                                    separation of the  two
                                    names, and a breach of the "old ticket" was
                                    also impossible, as it seemed to me.
                        I was also led to think, that in the existing state of things,
                                    neither your name with Mr. Tilden's, nor separate from
                                    it, would this year, be likely to be placed in nomination upon
                                    the "Ticket," for President, or, for Vice
                                    President.
                        The action of the convention in 
                                        New York
                                    , yesterday, makes it almost morally certain, that
                                    Gov. Cleveland will be our candidate for President; and, from
                                    all that has been said by other conventions, and by the press,
                                    as well as from private correspondence, it seems likely that
                                    Col. McDonald will be placed in nomination for Vice President,
                                    if our friends outside of Indiana are satisfied that it meets
                                    with your approval.
                        And now my dear sir, allow me as one of your sincere friends to
                                    say, in all frankness, I hope it will accord with your best
                                    judgment, and the good of our cause, to allow our friends in
                                    Indiana, to place your name, in nomination for Governor. Not
                                    that it will add any honor to those already conferred upon you,
                                    by your great state; but that it can give the whole country the
                                    assurance, that 
                              
                                            New York
                                         and Indiana will give their votes for 
                                        Cleveland
                                     and McDonald, for President and Vice. President, in
                                    the coming election.
                        For myself, I have no aspirations for any place, whatever. I look
                                    for my reward, not in official position, but in my vindication.
                                    I have fought the good fight of faith. I have fought for principle; whether that led me to act with, or against, the Democratic party, or,
                                        with, or against, the Republican party,
                        In 1847, when, by treaty, we had acquired the Free Territories
                                    from Mexico, and Gen'l Cass proposed by
                                    "diffusion of slavery" to spread it out so
                                    thin in the Territories that it would die out of itself, I was
                                    severed from the Democratic party, under his lead, and helped to
                                    organize the Free Soil party.
                        Then a young man, from Western 
                                        New York
                                    , I offered in the Democratic Convention, A
                                    Resolution "declaring the uncompromising hostility of
                                    the Democracy of 
                                        New York
                                     against the extension of slavery into the Free
                                    Territories recently acquired of Mexico by any act of the
                                    General Government."
                        That resolution was rejected, or laid on the table "by
                                    one majority.  Upon that
                                    vote, Robert Morris, of 
                                        New York city
                                    , the president of the Convention of 
                                        Syracuse
                                    , of February, 1847, angrily tore the
                                        resolution in pieces, and threw them on the floor. The
                                    idea was not destroyed. A copy of the resolution was preserved.
                                    On that rejected resolution, called the "Corner Stone
                                    Resolution," the Free Soil party was organized. It sent
                                    a Delegation to.
                                        Baltimore
                                    , was refused admission except they come in with
                                    their votes neutralized by a hostile Delegation. They withdrew
                                    from the Convention, (I among them). We nominated Martin Van
                                    Buren. Then followed the Buffalo convention; which also
                                    nominated Van Buren, and Chas. Francis Adams. The result was,
                                    that Corner Stone Resolution, wrecked
                                        Gen'l Cass with his diffusion of slavery
                                    theory. Taylor was elected, and 
                                        California
                                     came in as a Free State.
                        Then came a truce. Both parties pledged themselves anew, not to
                                    agitate the slavery question, and that the statu
                                        quo in the Territories, including the Mexican law of
                                    Freedom in the new ones, and the 
                                        Missouri
                                     Compromise in the old ones, should remain.
                        My war against the Democratic party then ceased; and I supported
                                    Pierce, in 1852.
                        But as if the Devil had control of things, in 1853-4, Dixon, a
                                    whig senator from 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , introduced a bill to repeal the 
                                        Missouri
                                     Compromise. In vain 
                                        Houston
                                     and 
                                        Benton
                                     raised their warning voices against it. In vain
                                    Douglas first reported against it. In vain President Pierce and
                                    the 
                                        Washington
                                     Union opposed it. The infernal
                                    measure once before the Senate, began its work of mischief; till
                                    at last, Douglas gave way,–hoping that with the
                                    Squatter Sovereignty panacea, he could get rid
                                    of the question. The result was, it only opened wide the
                                    Territory of 
                                        Kansas
                                     for the extremes to challenge each other to mortal
                                    combat. It, in fact, began, right then and there, the Civil War,
                                    which,-afterwards, led hundreds of thousands of brothers, with
                                    hands stained in brother's blood, to battle and to
                                    death.
                        The establishment of the Slave Code of 
                                        Kansas
                                    , as the result of the Border Ruffian invasion and
                                    subjugation of that territory, and the vote of the Democrats in
                                    Congress to sustain that Code by the Federal Army, again severed
                                    me from that party; and I 
                                    joined to help organize the Republican party of 1856. In 1857 I
                                    entered the Senate. You know all the rest. I will not repeat
                                    what is so familiar to you.
                        The Republican party was organized as a states
                                        rights party. While it opposed slavery extension into
                                    the Free Territories, it denounced any invasion of the rights of
                                    the states as among the gravest of crimes. It was born of a
                                    protest against Federal usurpation; a protest against the
                                    Fugitive Slave Law; a protest against the Slave Code of 
                                        Kansas
                                    ; and, especially, a protest against using the
                                    Federal Army to enforce that Code; and to force upon a people, a
                                    Constitution which they had rejected, but which was declared
                                    adopted upon a false return of more than 5,000 votes of men,
                                    whose names were never found in 
                                        Kansas
                                    , but found in an old 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     Directory.
                        In saying that the Republican party was organized as a states
                                    rights party, I speak only of what I know, for I drew the very
                                    call upon which the Republican party, the People's
                                    party of 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    , and the Union party of 
                                        New Jersey
                                    , were brought together in the convention at 
                                        Chicago
                                    , in 1860, which nominated Mr. Lincoln.
                        The rights of the states were recognized in the strongest terms,
                                    not only in the platform on which Mr. Lincoln was elected, but
                                    especially, in that resolution of July, 1861, after the war had
                                    begun, passed unanimously by Congress, two days after the
                                    disaster at Bull Run,–the most solemn declaration a
                                    nation could make, before God and the civilized world.
                        But after Lincoln's assassination, the control of the
                                    Republican party passed into the hands of Thad. Stevens; who
                                    really had more power than ever Robespierre had in the French
                                    Convention, and in all its ideas it was revolutionized, and
                                    carried right over and entirely outside of the Constitution.
                        His great genius, indomitable will, and his great passions,
                                    inflamed into an intensity of hate, by the destruction of his
                                    Iron Works by the rebel forces at 
                                        Gettysburg
                                    , made him burn and flame like an electric light, so
                                    intense and fierce that lesser lights were dim; and the Blaines
                                    and Logans were boys under him.
                        Unfortunately, President Johnson, as true a patriot as ever
                                    lived, by his want of tact and by his mistakes in extemporeé
                                    
                                    speeches in which he would indulge, in spite
                                    of the advice and counsel of his best friends, lost control, and
                                    the power to hold on to the policy of Lincoln. Johnson refused
                                    to appoint Morton in his Cabinet, which place Morton was ready
                                    to accept, after his 
                                        Richmond
                                     speech. Had Johnson done so, Morton had sufficient
                                    organizing power, with Johnson's aid, to resist Stevens
                                    and his followers in their radical revolution. But he did not
                                    appoint him Secretary of War. He kept Stanton to betray and to
                                    ruin him; to betray and to ruin Lincoln's policy, of
                                    Reconstruction under the Constitution. Though Stanton himself
                                    drew the very Reconstruction Proclamation, and though it was
                                    unanimously approved by all Lincoln's Cabinet, twice
                                    read over in presence of Gen'l Grant himself, yet
                                    Stanton betrayed it under Stevens' lead.
                        Then came the rejection of Sherman's terms of
                                    Capitulation by Johnson's army, because it seemed to
                                        recognize the States of the South as being
                                        still states in the Union.
                        To cut this letter short, Stevens and his followers got complete
                                    control of the Republican party, and revolutionized it. He
                                    boldly declared that we were "outside" the Constitution, in
                                    dealing with all the States South of the Potomac.
                        Then, under Stevens, the Republican party did, what the Rebellion
                                    could not do; it broke the Union. It expelled ten States. It
                                    reduced them to Five Military Provinces. It subjugated
                                    10,000,000, of people to military law. It abolished all civil
                                    law from the Potomac to the Rio Grande; and, (to quote
                                    Garfield), "with a steel pen made of a
                                    bayonet," two years after the war was over and peace
                                    proclaimed, erased from the Constitution the sacred words,
                                    "Habeas Corpus," and "Right of Trial
                                    by Jury," and wrote in their places "Martial
                                    Law," and "Drum Head Courts Martial."
                        Time fails me to tell you of all its great crimes; of the
                                    degradation and corruption of the South; of Disfranchising by
                                    Test Oaths the intelligence and character of the South; of
                                    filling their Legislatures with ignorance and stupidity; of the
                                    robbery by carpet-bag thieves of those states by the fraudulent
                                    issue of bonds, to $126,000,000; of the degradation
                                    of the suffrage of the South, instead of qualifying and
                                    elevating it, and with it elevating the enfranchised race; of
                                    all these things, which make the  heart sick to recall. Add to all
                                    this the nepotism, corruption, whiskey thief
                                        jobbing of Grant's administrations, and both
                                    of them, which show that great as he was as.a soldier, he never
                                    had any more fitness for the civil duties of President, than he
                                    has lately shown himself fit to be the head of a great Banking
                                    House in Wall Street.
                        Add to that, the great unpunished fraud and outrage of 1876. The
                                    bribery, by which half a million stolen from the Treasury by
                                    Star Route thieves under Dorsey, was spent to buy votes in
                                    Indiana in 1880; and more humiliating, even, than Bribery
                                    itself, the fact that Arthur, the present President of the 
                                        United States
                                    , without blushing, at a public dinner, when an
                                    ex-president sat by his side, openly, as if honors were being
                                    given to some great, conquering hero, boasted of the achievement
                                    of Carrying Indiana by wholesale Bribery, as if it were a great
                                    victory.
                        O, my friend! when I think of this party in power, having thus
                                    proved faithless to the Idea upon which it was elected, upon
                                    which I helped to form and organize it, how, instead of being a
                                    states rights party, maintaining the Union to be sovereign in
                                    all national affairs, and that the States are still sovereign in
                                    all their domestic affairs, it has now become the party of
                                    Centralization;–substantially denying the obligations
                                    and limitations of a Written Constitution, and maintaining that
                                    Congress can do any thing and every thing which it is not
                                    expressly forbidden to do;–and, that it is all
                                    honey-combed through and through with corruption; when I call
                                    all these things to mind, words fail to express the necessity to
                                    overthrow that party; and to place the administration in the
                                    hands of the true Democratic Republican party, regenerated as it
                                    now seems to be, and to bring true and genuine reform with it,
                                    into every branch of the government.
                        Let me therefore, knowing as I do your devoted love for the
                                    country for which you have labored and sacrificed so much,
                                    notwithstanding your personal disinclination to do so, ask you
                                    once more, to consent to put on your armor; once more, to become
                                    the candidate for Governor of Indiana. By that act, close up the
                                    ranks in 
                                        New York
                                     and Indiana, unite all our forces, divide our
                                    adversaries, everywhere, and make victory sure.
                        
                        Excuse this long and hastily written letter, for which the
                                    deepest solicitude is my only apology.
                        
                                    As ever,
                                    Sincerely yours,
                                    J. R. DOOLITTLE
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The following letter from Mr. John Bigelow confirms what Judge Doolittle had
                    written about the availability of Mr. Samuel J. Tilden as a presidential
                    candidate:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           July 6, 1884.
                        Hon. J. R. Doolittle:
                        My Dear Sir–
                        Though Governor Tilden has never been sick in bed a day since I
                                    have known him, now more than forty years, nor ever so ill as
                                    not to attend to current affairs, he is not strong and has no
                                    expectation of being ever any stronger. He does not feel that if
                                    elected to the Presidency he could realise the reasonable
                                    expectations of his friends or of the country. It was this
                                    apprehension which led him to decline the nomination in 1880 and
                                    there is no reason operating now, except the greater apparent
                                    unanimity of the party and the deduction of four years from the
                                    working balance of his life, that was not operative then.
                        I take no responsibility in saying, not only that the Governor
                                    does not wish the office but he does wish not to assume the
                                    burdens which it would impose upon him.
                        From a conviction that the anxieties of a canvass and the labor
                                    incident to a regeneration of our administrative system would
                                    interfere with the regularity of life and the repose which are
                                    indispensable to his health and comfort, I approved entirely of
                                    his course in 1880 and I am very reluctantly constrained to
                                    approve of the course which he now seems determined to pursue.
                        I regret that from the very nature of the situation I can not
                                    give a more explicit answer to your favor of the 2d inst., nor
                                    one more in harmony with what I suppose to be your feelings.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    JOHN BIGELOW.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            As a contribution to the discussion mentioned in Judge Doo-little's
                    letter, Mr. Bigelow's statement is valuable.
            D. M.
         
         
         
            INDIANA SOCIETY DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.
            REPORT OF THE STATE HISTORIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1909.
            THE chapters, from their reports, show a healthy vigor and growth along historic
                    lines. Their programs are worthy of a place with the programs of literary clubs.
                    The zeal and interest in patriotic education; in locating and marking the graves
                    of Revolutionary soldiers and other historic spots; the steady and patient
                    endeavor to Americanize our foreign newcomers—all this work, so dear
                    to the hearts of our most American Hoosiers, is growing and strengthening daily.
            One strong indication of this growth is the wonderful formation of new chapters;
                    thirty-seven counties are now represented by the forty-five chapters that have
                    been established in our State since the work was begun in 1894 by Mrs. Chapin C.
                    Foster, our first State Regent. The history of our earlier years shows what
                    uphill work was this forming of chapters; but as each chapter is established it
                    does its part in a very important branch of patriotic education—the
                    spreading of the spirit of patriotism among our own people. As each chapter is
                    formed, the near neighbors' ambition is aroused, and now it has almost
                    become a question whether our State Regent shall organize at once, or form a
                    waiting list and organize as fast as she can get around to them.
            In July your historian sent a circular letter to each regent asking the
                    cooperation of the chapters in collecting fragmentary history of early Indiana,
                    accounts of early settlers, court-house records, old letters and documents. This
                    letter has already met with a generous response from several chapters.
            The Manitou Chapter of 
                        Rochester
                     has a member, Marguerite Miller, who had already collected and
                    printed in book form biographical sketches of the early settlers of 
                        Fulton
                     county—not hearsay accounts, but the story of these
                    early lives and struggles with the hardships in the wilderness by the very
                    people who experienced them. It is a splendid piece of work.
            
            Mary Penrose Wayne Chapter, of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , has sent me a similar publication, "Reminiscences of Old 
                        Fort Wayne
                     by Those Who Know."
            A week after these letters were sent out, without having heard of the work your
                    historian was endeavoring to induce others to take up, I was assigned by the
                    Indiana Historical Society the editing of a pamphlet containing the
                    "Assessment List of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1835," together with a biographical sketch of the
                    assessor, George M. Lockerbie. The preparation of this sketch brought to light
                    many interesting and valuable incidents connected with the early history of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Also, shortly after the circular letters were well on their way, Mrs. Mortimer
                    Levering, who within the year has written a book on early Indiana, wrote me
                    suggesting that the Daughters start this work in Indiana. All this goes to show
                    that the wave of historical research which enthusiastic Daughters started
                    eighteen years ago is still rolling over our land, and that Indiana Daughters
                    are not out of its track.
            ELIZA G. BROWNING,
            
               State Historian.
         
         
         
            LIST OF INDIANA HISTORIES.
            
               BY HARLOW LINDLEY.
            THE following historical material relating to Indiana is available in the Indiana
                    State Library. The list does not pretend to be exhaustive or complete, but only
                    suggestive, and is published to meet a demand which has been made for Indiana
                    material of a general historical nature.
            
               Ball, Timothy Horton Northwestern Indiana, 1800-1900. II., maps, O. Crown
                        Point, Ind., 1900.
               Cauthorn, Henry S. History of the city of 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, 1702-1901. 
                            Terre Haute
                        , 1901.
               Cockrum, William M. Pioneer history of Indiana, including stories,
                        incidents and customs of the early settlers. 
                            Oakland City
                        , Ind., 1907.
               Conklin, Julia S. Young people's history of Indiana. II., O.
                        Indianapolis, 1899.
               Cox, Sanford C. Recollection of early settlements of the Wabash
                            Valley. 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind., 1860.
               Dillon, John B. History of Indiana from its earliest exploration by the
                        Europeans to the close of the territorial government in 1816. Vol. 1, O.
                        Indianapolis, 1843.
               —with a general view of the progress of public affairs in
                        Indiana from 1816-1856. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1859.
               Dunn, Jacob Piatt Indiana, a redemption from slavery; new and enlarged ed.
                        Map. 1905. (American Commonwealth series.)
               English, William Hayden Conquest of the country northwest of the
                            river Ohio, 1778-1783, and life of Gen. George
                        Rogers Clark. 2 vol. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1896.
               Glascock, Will H. Young folks' Indiana. II, O. Chicago, 1898.
               
               Goodrich, DeWitt C. and Tuttle, Charles R. History of the State of
                        Indiana. II., O. Indianapolis, 1875.
               Haymond, William S., ed. History of the State of Indiana. II., O.
                        Indianapolis, 1879.
               Indiana Historical Society Publications, 1895
               Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History 1905 to date. Vol. I to date.
               Indiana State Library, comp. History pamphlets (miscellaneous).
               Indianian, monthly Vol. 1-7. 1897-1900. 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               Law, John Colonial History of 
                            Vincennes
                        . 
                            Vincennes
                        , 1858.
               Moore, E. E., comp. Hoosier cyclopaedia; a compilation of statistical,
                        official, historical, political, and general information adapted especially
                        to meet the need of busy Indianians. 
                            Connersville
                        , 1905.
               Northern Indiana Historical Society Publications, Nos. 1-3. 
                            South Bend
                        , Ind., 1899-1900.
                     No. 1-
                                    St. Joseph
                                -Kankakee Portage, by George A. Baker.
                      2-Glacial phenomena in Northern Indiana, by Hugh T. Montgomery.
                      3-Indiana Supreme Court, by Timothy E. Howard.
                  
               
               Popular History of Indiana, with introduction by Mrs. T. A. Hendricks. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1891.
               Smith, Hubbard M. Historical sketches of Old 
                            Vincennes
                        . 
                            Vincennes
                        , 1902.
               Smith, Oliver Hampton Early Indiana trials and sketches. 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1858.
               Smith, William Henry History of State of Indiana. 2 vol. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1903.
               Thompson, Maurice Stories of Indiana. II., O. New York, 1898.
               Wood, Aaron Sketches of things and people in Indiana. Olcott, 1883.
               Woollen, William Wesley Biographical and historical sketches of early
                        Indiana. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1883.
            
         
         
         
            INDEX OF HISTORICAL ARTICLES IN INDIANA NEWSPAPERS.
            
                    PREPARED BY MISS FLORENCE VENN,
                
            
               Reference Librarian, Indiana State Library.
            Abbreviations: Ind., 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; mag. sec, magazine section; p., page; c, column.
            
               Adams county. Robert Simison's recollections of early days in 
                            Adams county
                        . 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Nov. 26, 1909, p. 10, c. 1.
               Armstrong, John. Description of grave of 
                            Clark county
                         Revolutionary soldier. Ind. Star, Sept. 26, 1909, mag. sec. p.
                        5, c. 1.
               Bruté de Rémur, Simon William Gabriel. Life of
                        Bishop Brute. 
                            Evansville
                         Journal-News, Oct. 31, 1909, p. 8, c. 2. Ind. News, Oct. 23,
                        1909, p. 27, c. 6.
               Carrington, Henry B. Col. Holloway's recollections of him. Ind.
                        Star, Oct. 10, 1909, p. 37, c. 1.
               Coquillard, Alexis. Founded 
                            South Bend
                        . 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 9, 1909, p. 13, c. 1.
               Douglas, Stephen Arnold. His visit to 
                            Indianapolis
                         during the early months of the war, as described by Col.
                        Holloway. Ind. Star, Oct. 3, 1909, p. 10, c. 3.
               Education. History of public schools in 
                            Wayne
                         county recounted at centennial celebration of their founding. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Sept. 19, 1909, pt. 1, p. 1, c. 7.
               — History of public school system of 
                            Mishawaka
                        . 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 6, 1909, pt. 1, p. 14, c. 4.
               Friends, Society of Story of their discovery of the Whitewater
                            valley. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Oct. 4, 1909, p. 3, c. 3.
               — History of establishment of Whitewater monthly meeting. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Sept. 4, 1909, p. 8, c. 1.
               — One hundred years of the 
                            Quaker
                         church in Indiana. Ind. Star, Oct. 10, 1909, mag. sec. p. 5.
               Greenawalt family. Sketch of history of old South Bend family. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 6, 1909, pt. 1, p. 9, c. 1.
               Harrison, William Henry. Journal kept by Peter Jones of
                        Harrison's expedition from 
                            Vincennes
                         to 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , has been  discovered at 
                            Washington
                        . Ind. News, Sept. 25, 1909, p. 14, c. 1.
               — Description of old 
                            Montgomery
                         homestead, which often sheltered Gov. Harrison. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, Sept. 7, 1909, p. 6, c. 3.
               Holloway, William R. Reminiscences of Indiana during Civil War times. Ind.
                        Star, Sept. 5, 1909, p. 5, c. 3; Oct. 3, 1909, p. 10, c. 3; Oct. 10, 1909,
                        p. 37, c. 1.
               I. O. O. F. History of order in 
                            Muncie
                        . 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Nov. 9, 1909, p. 8, c. 1.
               — Rebekah degree celebrates fifty-eighth anniversary. History
                        of order. Ind. Star, Sept. 19, 1909, p. 10, c. 2. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Sept. 19, 1909, p. 9, c. 1.
               Indiana—History. Recently discovered letter written by
                        Cornelius Pering, describing Indiana life in 1833, forms valuable addition
                        to state's historical literature. Ind. Star, Oct. 10, 1909, mag.
                        sec. pp. 6, 7.
               Indiana—History—Civil War. Col. Holloway's
                        reminiscences of war times in Indiana. Ind. Star, Sept. 5, 1909, p. 5, c. 3;
                        Oct. 3, 1909, p. 10, c. 3; Oct. 10, 1909, p. 37, c. 1.
               — 
                            South Bend
                         in the Civil War. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 9, 1909, p. 8, c. 3.
               Indiana—Military history—
               — 19th Regt. Reunion of. List of those present. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Oct. 7, 1909, p. 10, c. 1.
               — 21st Battery. Photograph of members taken twenty-two years
                        ago. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Sept. 20, 1909, p. 8.
               — 24th Regt. Historical sketch of. 
                            Evansville
                         Journal-News, Sept. 26, 1909, pt. 2, p. 2, c. 5; Oct. 3, 1909,
                        pt. i, p. 7, c. 2; Oct. 10, 1909, pt. 2, p. 3, c. 1; Oct. 24, 1909, pt. 3,
                        p. 9, c. 2.
               — 30th Regt. Holds 28th reunion at 
                            Goshen
                        . Ft. Wayne Journal-Gazette, Sept. 24, 1909, p. 7, c. 2.
               — 47th Regt. Holds 27th annual reunion at Bluffton. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Sept. 16, 1909, p. 6, c. 3.
               — 57th Regt. Story of its flag. II. por. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Oct. 5, 1909, p. 7, c. 1.
               — 57th Regt. List of survivors. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Oct. 1, 1909, p. 12, c. 5.
               
               — 57th Regt. Sketch of history. Celebrates 30th reunion. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Sept. 29, 1909, p. 1, c. 3.
               — 82nd Regt. Battle flag found after long search. Ind. Star,
                        Sept. 24, 1909, p. 1, c. 5.
               — 87th Regt. Holds reunion in 
                            Lafayette
                        . 
                            Lafayette
                         Courier, Sept. 16, 1909, p. 7, c. 3.
               — 129th Regt. Holds reunion at 
                            Angola
                        . Ft. Wayne Journal-Gazette, Oct. 9, 1909, p. 6, c. 5.
               Indiana academy of science, twenty-fifth anniversary. Sketch of its
                        history. Ind. Star, Nov. 21, 1909, p. 9, c. 1.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        . Lockerbie's assessment list of 1835, published by
                        Indiana Historical Society. Ind. News, Oct. 29, 1909, p. 13, c. 1.
               — Christian Schrader's pencil sketch from memory of
                        the site of the Union Station, sixty-three years ago. Ind. News, Nov. 9,
                        1909, p. 3, c. 2.
               Johnson county. Sketch of its history. Ind. News, Sept. 25, 1909, p. 14,
                        c. 5.
               Koons. family. Family reunion to celebrate long residence in 
                            Wayne
                         county. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Sept. 9, 1909, p. 5, c. 6.
               Lockerbie, George Murray. Sketch of early resident of 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Ind. News, Oct. 29, 1909, p. 13, c. 1.
               Maps. Paoli man owns map of Indiana dated 1817. Ind. News, Nov. 13, 1909,
                        p. 24, c. 4.
               Masons. History of Scottish rite branch in 
                            Fort Wayne
                        . Ft. Wayne Journal-Gazette, Nov. 17, 1909, p. 7, c. 2.
               
                  
                            Michigan
                         and Erie canal. Great meeting to be held in November in 
                            Fort Wayne
                         to discuss waterways. Ft. Wayne Journal-Gazette, Sept. 21,
                        1909, p. 1, c. 7.
               — Answers received from congressmen in response to invitations
                        to attend waterways convention. Ft. Wayne Journal-Gazette, Oct. 23, 1909, p.
                        1, c. 1.
               — Surveys of several routes made by W. T. Harris. Ft. 
                            Wayne
                         Journal-Gazette, Oct. 29, 1909, p. 1, c. 7.
               — Importance of canal to middle west. Ft. Wayne
                        Journal-Gazette, Nov. 4, 1909, p. 1, c. 1.
               — Benefits to be gained by constructing 
                            Toledo
                        , Ft. Wayne and 
                            Chicago
                         canal. Ft. Wayne Journal-Gazette, Oct. 18,  1909, p. 1, c. 7; Oct. 25, 1909, p. 1, c. 7;
                        Oct. 26, 1909, p. 1, c. 7; Oct. 27, 1909, p. i, c. 4.
               — Value of 
                            Toledo
                        , Ft. Wayne and 
                            Chicago
                         canal, with map showing saving of distance. Ft. Wayne
                        Journal-Gazette, Nov. 10, 1909, p. 9.
               — First day's session of convention. Ft. Wayne
                        Journal-Gazette, Nov. 11, 1909, p. 1, c. 3.
               — List of delegates chosen by Ft. Wayne convention to represent 
                            Michigan
                         and Erie canal before National rivers and harbors congress. Ft.
                        Wayne Journal-Gazette, Nov. 12, 1909, p. 1, c. 2.
               — Convention adopts resolution requesting government to make
                        topographical survey, as soon as possible, of district through which canal
                        is to pass. Ft. Wayne Journal-Gazette, Nov. 12, 1909, p. 1, c. 6.
               — Resolutions adopted by Ft. Wayne convention. Ind. News, Nov.
                        11, 1909, p. 1, c. 8.
               — Closing session of convention. Ft. Wayne Journal-Gazette,
                        Nov. 12, 1909, p. 1, c. 7.
               — W. T. Harris's report on proposed canal. Ft. Wayne
                        Journal-Gazette, Nov. 12, 1909, p. 10, c. 3.
               Mills, Anson. Presents fountain to native town, Thorntown. Sketch of his
                        career. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Sept. 19, 1909, sec- 2, p. 3.
               
                  
                            Mishawaka
                        . History of public school system. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 6, 1909, pt. 1, p. 14, c. 4.
               
                  
                            Muncie
                        . Personal recollections of fifty-one years in 
                            Muncie
                         by John C. Eiler. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Sept. 17, 1909, p. 4, c. 3.
               — Fight made by first members of W. C. T. U. against liquor in 
                            Muncie
                        , in 1874. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Sept. 30, 1909, p. 5, c. 1.
               Negroes. Story of settlement made in Indiana by freed slaves of John
                        Randolph. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Nov. 14, 1909, p. 7, c. 1.
               Northern Indiana Historical Society. History and work of organization. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 8, 1909, p. 11, c. 1.
               
                  Ohio river. Description of first steamboat on the 
                            Ohio
                         and its first trip. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, Sept. 25, 1909, p. 1, c. 1.
               Pering, Cornelius. Recently discovered letter written by him, describing
                        Indiana life in 1833 forms valuable addition to  State's historical literature. Ind.
                        Star, Oct. 10, 1909, mag. sec, pp. 6 and 7.
               Railroads. Reunion of veterans of Nickel-plate road held in 
                            Fort Wayne
                        . History of the road. Ft. Wayne Journal-Gazette, Sept. 4, 1909,
                        p. 1, c. 1.
               Revolutionary soldiers. Homestead of Joseph Woods, Revolutionary soldier
                        who settled in 
                            Gibson county
                        . Ind. Star, Sept. 19, 1909, p. 33, c. 2.
               — Description of grave of John Armstrong, 
                            Clark county
                         Revolutionary soldier. Ind. Star, Sept. 26, 1909, mag. sec. p.
                        5, c. 1.
               Shackelford, James. Death of captor of "Raider" Morgan.
                        Sketch of his military career. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, Sept. 8, 1909, P- 5, c. 2.
               Simison, Robert. Reminiscences of early days in 
                            Adams county
                        . 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Nov. 26, 1909, p. 10, c. 1.
               Slavery. Story of slave-owner who tried to recover fugitive slaves in 
                            South Bend
                        . 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 6, 1909, pt. 1, p. 15, c. 1.
               
                  
                            South Bend
                        . Recollections of 
                            South Bend
                         of fifty years ago. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 5, 1909, p. 4, c. 1.
               — Landmarks of 
                            South Bend
                        , forty years ago. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 6, 1909, pt. 2, p. 8.
               — Andrew Anderson's recollections of 
                            South Bend
                         fifty years ago. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 6, 1909, pt. 2, p. 9.
               — Old time photograph of prominent citizens. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 6, 1909, pt. 2, p. 9.
               — Recollections of 
                            South Bend
                         in 1832 by Daniel Greene. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 6, 1909, pt. 1, p. 16, c. 1.
               — First brick house built in city. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 8 1909, p. 4, c. 4.
               — Story of its founding and early history. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 9, 1909, p. 13, c. 1.
               — 
                            South Bend
                         in the Civil War. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, Oct. 9, 1909, p. 8, c. 3.
               Taverns. Some old Indiana taverns. Ind. News, Nov. 20, 1909, P- 15-190
               
               Temperance. Fight made by first members of W. C. T. U. against liquor in 
                            Muncie
                         in 1874. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, Sept. 30, 1909, p. 5, c. 1.
               Vorhees, Daniel Wolsey. Character and career of. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, Nov. 7, 1909, p. 6, c. 3.
               Waterways. Gov. Marshall investigates financial difficulties incurred by
                        State in former years, for the improvement of waterways. Ind. News, Sept.
                        20, 1909, p. 9, c. 1.
               — Riesenberg challenges Gov. Marshall's views. Ind.
                        News, Sept. 25, 1909, p. 11, c. 3.
               — Blatchley does not approve of improvements of waterways. Ind.
                        News, Sept. 25, 1909, p. 11, c. 5.
                     See also 
                                    Michigan
                                 and Erie canal.
                  
               
               
                  
                            Wayne
                         county. History of public schools in 
                            Wayne
                         county recounted at centennial celebration of their founding. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Sept. 19, 1909, pt. 1, p. 1, c. 7.
               Whitewater valley. First settled by Quakers. 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, Oct. 4, 1909, p. 3, c. 3.
               Woods, Joseph. Homestead of Revolutionary soldier who settled in 
                            Gibson county
                        . Ind. Star, Sept. 19, 1909, p. 33, c. 2.
            
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL.
            The American Historical Association cerebrates its twenty-fifth anniversary at
                    the annual meeting at 
                        New York
                     this month. The date is December 27-31, Monday to Friday. As is
                    customary, the historians will be joined by the American Economic, American
                    Political Science, American Statistical, American Social Science, and
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Associations, the
                    American Sociological Society, the American Association for Labor Legislation,
                    the Bibliographical Society of America, and the American Society of Church
                    History. This formidable array of learning will undoubtedly eclipse the
                    Hudson-Fulton celebration of the early autumn. Several of the foremost
                    institutions of 
                        New York City
                     are uniting in the entertainment of the visitors, among them the
                    Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, which gives a luncheon Monday noon; 
                        Columbia
                     University, which gives the freedom of the university buildings and
                    several luncheons and receptions and a dinner; the 
                        New York
                     Historical Society, and the Chamber of Commerce, at which will be
                    held several of the meetings of the American Economic Association. The social
                    features of the session close with a reception by Mr. and Mrs. William K.
                    Vanderbilt at their residence on Fifth avenue and Fifty-second street. The
                    headquarters of the American Historical and the American Economic Associations
                    will be at the Waldorf-Astoria.
            Programs of the meeting may be had by addressing Waldo G. Leland, secretary of
                    the American Historical Association, Carnegie Institution, 
                        Washington, D. C.
                     Among the sessions which will attract the widest interest are
                    doubtless the opening night meeting at Carnegie Hall, at which there are to be
                    addresses by President Taft, Governor Hughes, Mayor McClellan, Dr. Nicholas
                    Murray Butler and others, the presidential addresses by Professor Albert
                    Bushnell Hart, of the Historical Association, and Professor Davis R. Dewey, of
                    the Economic Association, and the breakfast at the Waldorf-Astoria, with
                    reception to foreign guests and brief addresses, Wednesday noon. Among the well-
                         known guests from abroad are expected
                    Mr. Prothero, of 
                        London
                    , Professor Eduard Meyer, of Berlin, and Embassador Bryce, of 
                        England
                    . The program as a whole is unusually attractive and strong.
            Those going from the central and southern portion of Indiana will probably find
                    the most convenient train is that leaving 
                        Indianapolis
                     over the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     railroad Sunday morning at 8:10. It is to be hoped that a large
                    number will attend from this State, especially in view of the fact that the next
                    succeeding meeting of the Association is to be in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
            NOTES.
            The 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society held its semi-annual meeting on Thursday,
                    October 28, at the building of the society in 
                        Newcastle
                    . The program embraced among other things addresses by the
                    president, Adolph Rogers, and by Frank J. Hall, Lieutenant-Governor of Indiana.
                    The officers are Adolph Rogers, president; John Thornburg, secretary; Loring A.
                    Williams, financial secretary; Dr. Thomas M. Gronendyke, treasurer; E. H. Bundy,
                    Henry Charles, B. F. Koons, trustees.
            We have received Publication Number Six of the Old Settler and Historical
                    Association of 
                        Lake County
                    , a pamphlet of twenty-nine pages, selling for 25 cents. It contains
                    papers and addresses of the meeting of the Association at 
                        Crown Point
                    , August 24-25, 1909, and a very interesting account of a trip made
                    to 
                        Chicago
                     from Eagle Creek, 
                        Lake county
                    , in 1838 by Judge David Turner and two companions. The officers of
                    the Association are as follows: President, Sam B. Woods; vice-president, John
                    Hack; recording secretary, Mrs. H. Groman; curator, Mrs. Pattee; treasurer, Miss
                    Edith Dinwiddie; historical secretary, T. H. Ball.
            The Ohio Valley Historical Association held its third annual
                    meeting at 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               , October 14-16,
                    inclusive. The meeting is reported to have been successful in every respect. The
                    program was an exceptionally good one, both in the character of the subjects
                    discussed and in the selection of speakers.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
