
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 45, Issue 2, pages 113-220. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:45+issue:2+year:1949&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Adequacy of the Imperialist View of Colonial History
            Albert L. Kohlmeier*
            
            Historians in attempting to write the history of the colonies established in the Western Hemisphere
                    have ordinarily been inclined to approach their problem from either one of two points of view, an
                    Old-World imperialist or a New-World nationalist. The former school have thought of the colonies as
                    the tip ends of the branches—including the flowers, fruitage, and seed—of an
                    old imperial tree, while the latter have thought of them as the seed-germ and tap-root of the sprout
                    of a new nationalist state. In each case they are admittedly dealing with the same seed and with
                    some of its same antecedents and results. In the one case, the historians are following out the
                    results of activities reflecting the ideals, purposes, objectives, and efforts of the builders of
                    empire, modified of course by the environment and by the resistance as well as the co-operation of
                    the people of the colonies. In the other case the historians begin with certain presuppositions as
                    to what are considered some of the ingredients of the unique genius of the new nationalist state and
                    then proceed to trace the origins and causes of these ingredients. Herbert Osgood, Clarence Alvord
                    and others, cognizant of the purposes of the British government in establishing and developing a
                    mercantilist empire and cognizant of the various British political, economic, and social instruments
                    and agencies used in trying to implement those purposes, undertook to discover and relate how
                    successfully the instruments achieved the purposes. George Bancroft, Frederick Turner and others,
                    duly impressed with what they considered the American type of democracy or way of life, including a
                    large measure of political equality and individual freedom secured by its own peculiar 
                  
                     * Albert L. Kohlmeier is professor of history at Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. This aper was read at the session on the "Evaluation of the
                            Imperial School of Colonial Historians" at the forty-first annual meeting of the
                                Mississippi Valley Historical Association at 
                        Rock Island, Illinois
                     , on April 23, 1948.
               
                     machinery, were interested in noting instances of the first
                    manifestations of examples of these things on the American shores and in observing their
                    development, emphasizing in it all the part played by the colonists themselves and by their
                    environment. The facts and materials handled by the imperialist and by the nationalist historians
                    are obviously very largely the same. Results that are the concern of the imperialists on the one
                    hand may in turn constitute in many cases the causes assembled and arranged by the nationalists.
                    That is, if the imperialist historian explains fully all of the workings-out of the results of
                    imperial objectives in their relation to the co-operation as well as the resistance of the colonists
                    in their new and changing environment and if the nationalist historian explains fully the origins
                    and development of the causes of the new culture, the two will just about tell the same story and
                    come out at the same place even though they may start from different points of view. For a historian
                    to assume that either the imperialist or the nationalist approach is per se the
                    better would be to make the mistake of implying the possibility of attaching quantitative values to
                    certain aspects of heredity and of environment as historical factors. While some biologists today
                    talk as though they believe that the modification of living organisms is 99% heredity
                    through the rearrangement of the genes and while some behaviorist psychologists talk as though the
                    matter were 99% environment and conditioning, the historian, I believe, must assume that
                    in the actions and reactions between the individual and the environment, which after all constitute
                    the raw materials of history, individual heredity and environment are both absolutely indispensable.
                    consequently, in a case wherein the reduction of one of two factors to zero inevitably results in
                    the total disappearance of the other as well, the attempt to fix quantitative values to either or
                    even to hold that one is more important than the other is pointless and childish.
            It is not here claimed that the nationalist historian interprets everything by environment and the
                    imperialist historian by heredity or vice versa. It is not as simple as that. Rather each is
                    inclined to emphasize certain aspects of both factors. The nationalist historian in the matter of
                    heredity is inclined to emphasize the things that the colonist brought over inside of him, such as initiative, drive, and tenacity, as well as ideas,
                    beliefs, and experiences with Old-world practices, while the imperialist in the matter of heredity
                    is probably a little more interested in the things that the colonist brought over here which
                    accompanied or followed him but which in a  way were external to
                    him. These included all the instruments and agencies of sovereignty, of repulation, and of
                    direction, including such material things as charteis, acts of Parliament, commissions and
                    instructions and such personal instruments as royal govcriiol*s,
                    customs officials, and naval and military personnel. Obviously all of these, whetlier internal or
                    external, from one point of view were parts of the colonist's heritage, biological or
                    social. Obviously too, the externals mentioned above in turn became part of the colonist's
                    larger environment after he got over here. Furthermore, everything that the colonist brought over
                    here inside of him in the way oi capacity, ideas and experience, in one sense, he had inherited from
                    the mother country. That is. the American colonist did not start from scratch. Our history, if we
                    omit the Indians, does not begin with primitives. To the imperalist natural environment and New
                    World conditions are likely more often to enter into the picture as obstacles in the way of the
                    working out of the British objectives, whereas to the nationalist they more often appear as
                    oppoihnities for the useful innovations by the free-thinking colonists. The nationalist, perceiving
                    that sonic of the colonists like John Wintlirop, Thomas Hooker, and Roger Williams were probably iii
                    every respect the equal of Oliver Croniqell, John Lock, and John Miltonk, even though they were
                    obliged to play their parts on a snialler stage, is probably inclined too much to assume that
                    because the first Ameiicaiis clanie on the American stage full grown they, like Athena, had sprung
                    full-growll from the brow of Jo\e. He does not always take the trouble to give due consideration to
                    the extent to which these individuals had been moulded by England. However., once being given these
                    individuals, the nationalist is probably justified in placing the emphasis upon the quality of these
                    individuals and the nature of the physical environment as the determining factors in the course of
                    events rather than upon the effectiveness of the force and authority exercised by the Empire. He is
                    entirely correct in assuming that the application of force, even when applied by a so-called
                    sovereign authority can only produce negative and never positive results. If thoroughly and
                    effectively applied, force can repress, obstruct, and destroy, but never impel or create. At most it
                    can only change the direction of an already existing movement or trend by repressing or destroying
                    certain aspects of the movement, thereby allowing certain other remaining aspects of the movement
                    freedom to develop, provided always that there is in the people the will, the energy, and the
                    capacity to  carry the remaining aspects forward. Force can even
                    destroy obstacles in the path of these remaining aspects of the movement, leaving a clear road for
                    the advance, but it can never drive the people down that road if they are determined unto death not
                    to go or if they lack the ability to do so. Institutions then came into being and grew in the
                    colonies, in the view of the nationalists, not so much because they were planted here by the
                    government of the mother country of Europe, but because the colonists, familiar with old-country
                    institutions, reproduced on their own accord those with which they were familiar and which they
                    liked, including of course some that the mother country urged. According to this view the colonists
                    also accepted the form of other institutions that the mother country tried to force upon them, but
                    changed the substance rather completely, and finally they tried out some institutions in harmony
                    with new ideas of their own, sometimes with failure and sometimes with marked success and abiding
                    consequences. From this point of view, then, New-World environment and past experience were the
                    really decisive factors. Imperial force and control handicapped by distance was in the long run not
                    very effective except in cases where it re-enforced colonial tendencies. The New World was thus
                    essentially a laboratory wherein new ideas and old experiences were being rather freely adapted to a
                    rather new and peculiar environment.
            The imperialists on the other hand are justified in replying that not only did the Empire through its
                    means of defense and other means destroy in the path of the general development of the colonies
                    obstacles that might have been absolutely fatal and that besides offering and suggesting useful ways
                    of doing things which might in some instances have been adopted by the colonists anyway because they
                    conformed with the ideas and experiences of the pro-imperialist parties in the colonies, it imposed
                    in other instances ways which might never have been thought of by the colonists if they had not been
                    suggested to them by the statesmen of the mother country. Finally the imperialists may point out
                    that some regulations and patterns were imposed that were absolutely contrary to the wishes of even
                    the effective majority of the colonists. In the latter case the colonists if they could not evade
                    the regulations had the choice of submitting or resorting to a life-and-death struggle. This
                    struggle was so long deferred, both in the case of the English and of the Spanish colonies, that
                    there was time for enduring effects upon the history of the colonies concerned.
            
            By way of illustrating some of the general statements just made, one may point out a few things that
                    took place in the political, economic, and social adaptations and changes in the colonies. When the
                    colonists came to the New World, the authority of the king theoretically and legally followed them.
                    They could not and perhaps did not wish to slough off their allegiance to their king. Something,
                    however, happened when they crossed the Atlantic. Back in the old country the king was a very
                    present thing—very near and very real. Every day many concrete reminders of his authority
                    and activity confronted them. The evidences of the connection of the kings of the past with the
                    history of their country were many and important, but in the American wilderness not much could be
                    seen that would remind them either of the king, his authority, or his creations. In the old country
                    kings had held forth so long and government was so old that it was easy to assume that both went
                    back to divine ordination. But in 
                        America
                    there were no governments anywhere until after they had been set up by men. It was quite
                    obvious that men and not God were organizing the governments. Even the colonial governments that
                    were supposedly brought over from the mother country were in their original conception so hopelessly
                    out of harmony with the needs over here that mere men had out of necessity to do a lot of tinkering
                    and improvising before they would serve their purpose at all. It became very clear to most observers
                    that governments grew out of the needs of the situation and out of agreements of the people. At the
                    founding of some of the English colonies, the king issued charters granting conditional title to
                    land and authorizing a system of government. In the case of both 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Massachusetts
                     Bay the charters were of the type adapted to the use of overseas trading corporations.
                    In the case of 
                        Virginia
                     what would today be called the president, board of directors and controlling
                    stockholders of the corporation all remained in 
                        England
                    . A kind of superintendent of production called the governor was sent by the corporation
                    to 
                        Virginia
                     to be assisted by a supervisory council. The interesting thing, however, is that in
                    less than a generation the superintendent of production had turned out to be a political chief
                    executive and the supervisory council a kind of cabinet or upper house and a miniature house of
                    commons had been added. In the case of 
                        Massachusetts
                     Bay, the chief officers of the corporation came to the colonies and it was over here
                    that the stockholders' meetings were held. The Puritans who came into  control of the charter undertook to use it as a frame of government
                    within which they could try to solve the ancient problem of finding the perfect form of government.
                    This was to be done by the simple device of placing the government in control of God's
                    elect, who presumably would be both wise and honest unless one assumes that God did not use very
                    good judgment in choosing His companions for Glory-land. The Puritans fell short of achieving their
                    ideal not because they lacked the ability to stretch and bend the charter sufficiently to suit their
                    needs in that respect as well as in many others, but for the simple reason that God alone knew who
                    were the elect and the Puritans found no agreed-upon way of eliciting this information from Him.
                    Very soon therefore the government of 
                        Massachusetts
                     Bay consisted of chief executive, an upper house, and a lower house of deputies very
                    much as existed down in 
                        Virginia
                    . The colonists who went to 
                        Portsmouth
                     and 
                        Newport
                    , Rhode Island, had no charter at all, but they believed they could solve the problem of
                    finding the perfect form of government now that they had a free hand here in the wilderness by
                    simply agreeing to adopt the Bible in toto as an all-sufficient book of statutes
                    and electing one of their number as a kind of Biblical judge to construe the statutes and make the
                    applications with the assistance of a dozen elders elected by the settlers. It transpired, however,
                    that in a very short time the Biblical judge began to conduct himself very much as did the governors
                    in 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Massachusetts
                     Bay, the elders acted pretty much like the Court of Assistance did in 
                        Massachusetts
                     Bay and like the council did in 
                        Virginia
                    , while the 
                        Portsmouth
                     and 
                        Newport
                     settlers who were supposed to function only in the election of the judge and the elders
                    and in witnessing their acts, proceeded to participate in discussions, vote on questions, and decide
                    issues on the basis of common sense and past experience, leaving to the judge and to the elders
                    little more than the sometimes difficult task of finding the appropriate text in the Bible that
                    might with some stretch of the imagination serve as the legal basis for decisions already made. Far
                    be it from us to maintain that the charters and directives did not have a moulding and a restraining
                    influence upon the development of colonial political institutions, but when one realizes that some
                    colonies started with charters for trading companies, some with medieval feudal proprietary grants,
                    and some with no authorization at all; when one realizes that some had definite ideas with which
                    they wished to experiment and that some like Penn  had no
                    definite ideas to try out at all but believed that if free to experiment they could work out
                    something, one is amazed at the fact that in spite of charters 01– absence of charters,
                    transitory ideals and voluntary changes of proprietary governments to royal colonies, in all
                    important essentials the colonies very soon became very much alike. The fact is the majority of
                    colonists were after all Englishmen that had all inherited a common experience, and while the
                    environment differed from colony to colony in important respects the most fundamental features of
                    the environment of the wilderness were everywhere the same. As a result, in the things that they did
                    and made similarities were more important than differences.
            The experience of being a part of the British Empire with its central government at Westminster
                    exercising general supervision over the whole and between the parts of the Empire, and leaving the
                    local governments in 
                        Scotland
                    , in 
                        Virginia
                    , and in 
                        Jamaica
                     free in most respects to provide for their local needs, was not lost upon the
                    colonists. When the independent states came to form the Constitutional compact in 1787, they
                    provided for a central government that exercised for the most part the identical powers that the
                    British government had tried to exercise before the Revolution, in some cases without protest from
                    the colonies and in some cases over their objections and evasions. But the experience with the
                    British Empire was not the only experience that the colonists: had had in the matters of
                    governmental unions. From the very beginning. the colonists had experimented with governmental
                    compacts between individuals and between local governments. Formation of government by compact in
                    the Old World was at best only a matter for philosophical speculation, but in 
                        America
                     it was a practical reality. Settlers made governments almost as casually as they built
                    their houses. They experimented with organizing and operating confederacies of varying types. The
                    Rhode Island confederacy was made up of two Bible commonwealths, one pure democracy, and one
                    political association that approached about as nearly to a system of deliberate and studied anarchy
                    as was ever set up in America. The 
                        New England
                     Confederacy was made up of two unitary representative democracies, one confederacy, and
                    one government that might be called a federal union. Hence it becomes difficult to decide whether
                    the framers of the Constitution of 1787 were more influenced in the matter of distribution of powers
                    between the central government and the states and in the  matter
                    of division of powers between the three departments of government by their own experiments or
                    experiments that were initiated in Britain.
            In the economic history of the colonies probably nothing played a more important part than the
                    possession of land. Theoretically before the discovery of America the continent belonged to no one,
                    since the Indians were not Christians and did not count. By right of discovery absolute legal title
                    to all the land in a given drainage area passed to that king who first in person or through an agent
                    discovered a part of that drainage system. The colonists never legally owned any land. They held it
                    directly or indirectly of the king on stipulated conditions. Now in the old country where all the
                    land was occupied and had been held for generations and had changed hands many times through
                    purchase, inheritance, feudal grant, and conquest, the beginnings of proprietorship were lost in a
                    hazy past. It was not easy to visualize the origins and rational basis of the theory of ownership.
                    in 
                        America
                     on the other hand with millions of acres of wild land occupied and used by no one it
                    was difficult to subscribe to the validity and reality of the king's ownership merely
                    because someone had happened to cross the ocean and had seen a part of a coastline a thousand miles
                    away. Common sense dictated the conclusion that the wild, unoccupied land still belonged to no one
                    if it did not belong to the Indians. To the colonist it was obvious that the unoccupied land was
                    practically without value till man had done something to it. It was obvious too to the humble
                    colonists that this land should really belong to the people who would occupy it and improve it. They
                    frequently proved to their own satisfaction the validity of this view by settling on the frontier
                    without taking the trouble to secure a formal title and by escaping year after year the collector of
                    quitrents. True enough, colonies that held grants from the king naturally urged the validity of
                    those grants in competition with rival colonies, and wealthy land speculators who had bought up land
                    warrants based upon the imperial theory were anxious to support its validity. The common people, on
                    the other hand, for the most part were inclined to feel that the function of governments was
                    practically exhausted in this matter in witnessing and warranting the legal title to the man who had
                    acquired first possession, and was making it productive. This view continued after the colonial
                    period had passed and was urged with increasing vigor and success against the Federal government.
            
            Naturally in most aspects of the social development of the English colonies, imperial control was
                    perhaps less effective than were the ideas, the memories of experiences and practices that the
                    settlers brought over in their heads and the influences of the new environment upon these ideas and
                    practices unless possibly it might be in the field of religion. In the case of England, religion was
                    a matter of state authority. The king was the head of the state in things spiritual as well as
                    secular. In all of the Southern colonies the Anglican church was either assumed to be the
                    established church from the founding of the colonies or was made so by the passage of specific
                    colonial acts. The settlers that came in the great migration to 
                        Massachusetts
                     Bay and from there went to the other 
                        New England
                     colonies belonged for the most part to that branch of Puritanism that had remained in
                    the Anglican church and wanted to remain there, but wished to change it still farther away from
                    Catholicism. What happened in the case of both the Southern and 
                        New England
                     colonies was still further change from the English pattern. In 
                        New England
                    , the colonists made the changes in ritual, belief, and church government that they had
                    wanted to make in 
                        England
                     or had come to want in America. They finally realized that the resultant church was
                    really so different from the Anglican that they called it the 
                        New England
                     Way or Congregationalism. In the Southern colonies, there was then theoretically an
                    Episcopal church, but without an episcopus. This was certainly for that kind of
                    church a fundamental omission. The Bishop of 
                        London
                     had nominal supervision but with the exception of the rather ineffective efforts of
                    James Blair and Thomas Bray each parish and church in the South was almost completely under the
                    direction of the ten or twelve vestrymen chosen either by themselves, the church members, or the
                    freeholders. Except for the fact that the twelve men elected by the congregation in 
                        New England
                     were called elders, the fundamental facts of church government were not very different
                    in the two sections. In the church in 
                  Alexandria,
                            Virginia
               , in which Washington sometimes
                    worshipped, the minister's pulpit with the open Bible rather than the altar occupied the
                    most prominent position in the center of the front of the church. This was of course significant.
                    Unless the church happened to have a rector ordained in 
                        England
                     there was little more than the use of the prayer book that would continue to tie the
                    ritual and service to the church in 
                        England
                    . In both 
                        New England
                     and the South the number of sects grew apace. Whatever differences  there existed between the religious life in the South and in 
                        New England
                     were really the reflection of the differences of the people of the two regions rather
                    than the result of any imposition from without.
            Among historians who have written from the imperialist point of view there are perhaps a few to whom
                    the approach implied conviction that it was the only sound approach. Some of them, strongly
                    influenced by the idea of the integrity of western civilization. have believed that the only proper
                    way of interpreting the history of the countries of the Western Hemisphere was to treat them as an
                    extension of European history beyond the seas. A modification of this view is held by those
                    believers in the solidarity of Anglo-Saxon civilization who have from time to time envisaged a
                    reunion of the United States with the British Commonwealth of Nations and who look upon the American
                    Revolution and the period of independent history of the United States as a mere interruption and
                    even a kind of unfortunate interruption in that outward unity. The latter. may be correct, but they
                    cannot be sure that liberty and self-government would have developed either in 
                        England
                     or in the United States or in the British Dominions in the way that it has without the
                    American Revolution. Those who believe in interpreting the history of the Western Hemisphere as a
                    mere extension of European history may be right, but it is still much too early to say so with any
                    degree of finality. We do not know whether we are at present in 
                        America
                     in the opening pages of the chapter of a new civilization or near the close of an old
                    one. The answer depends upon the length and richness and direction of the future development of some
                    of the nations of the Western Eleniisphei. and upon the extent of the decline of western European
                    activity. When one disagrees with Arnold Toynbee as to the content of his extinct and arrested
                    civilizations, Toynbee can in those cases argue back with at least the assurance that the facts so
                    far as accomplishment is concerned are all in. Not so with his content of western civilization.
                    There is still the possibility that American civilization will continue so long and attain such
                    specialized and unique development that the colonies in the Western Hemisphere would not be
                    considered even by Mr. Toynbee as the mere extension of an old civilization but the beginnings of a
                    great new civilization. This new civilization would of course Ire more closely related to western
                    European civilization than to some of the others that he has with some justification segregated but
                    might nevertheless take its own rather unique place within the unity of all human civilization.
         
         
         
            The Imperial School of American Colonial 1–Tistorinns
            Max Snvelle*
            
            The "imperial school of American colonial historians" may be defined as that group
                    of historians dealing with the British colonies in the American hemisphere prior to 1753 whose
                    fundamental approach to their subject is based upon the assumption that, since those colonies were
                    integral parts of the British Empire, their history should be studied as the history of parts of the
                    Empire. This point of approach contrasts sharply with that of the "nationalist"
                    school of historians of the United States, of which the most notable examples are perhaps George
                    Bancroft and John Fiske, and of which the most notable recent exponent is Edward
                    Channing—a school of historians who investigate the colonial period chiefly, if not
                    exclusively, with the objective of finding there the origins of the United States—of
                    which, of course, the British-Americans of the colonial period never even dreamed! Thus, where the
                    nationalist sees national origins, the imperial Historical sees the development of institutions
                    within the framework and organic interrelationships of that conglomerate aggregation of widely
                    differing economic, social, and political entities known as the "old British
                    empire." The nationalist historian sees the history of thirteen of these many differing
                    entities as something unique, for in it he finds the origins and the foundations of a great nation;
                    to the imperial historian, when he pushes his position to its logical conclusion, the so-called
                    "thirteen" are merely some of the parts of a much larger phenomenon, the British
                    Empire as a whole, which was itself only one of the major incidents in the expansion of European
                    civilization round the world.
            The first move among modern historians to write of the colonies from the point of view of the old
                    Empire rather than from that of the new American nation came, naturally enough, in 
                        England
                     itself. For there, men like George O. 
                  
                     * Max Savelle is professor of history at the University of
                            Washington. Seattle, Washington. This paper was read at the session on the
                            "Evaluation of the Imperial School of Colonial Historians" at the
                            forty-first annual meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Association at 
                        Rock Island, Illinois
                     , on April 23, 1948.
               
                     Trevelyan began to write of the colonies as communities of
                    Englishmen, and of the American Revolution as a civil, rather than as an international war; and John
                    A. Doyle, Fellow of All Souls College, 
                        Oxford
                    , saw in the appearance of English communities in 
                        America
                     chiefly, though not purely, the transition of culture from England to America. As he
                    himself says in the introduction to his first volume, "I have preferred to regard the
                    history of the United States as the transplantation of English ideas and institutions to a distant
                    soil, and the adaptation of them to new wants and altered modes of life … The history of
                    the American colonies is in one sense nothing more than a continuation of English history
                    … The colonies did indeed one and all form for themselves institutions closely resembling
                    those of the mother country. But these institutions were developed, not transplanted or servilely
                        copied."1
            
            It will be noted, here, that although Doyle sees the history of the United States as "the
                    transplantation of English ideas and institutions," he anticipates, in the last sentence,
                    the frontier theory of local variations just then being developed by Frederick Jackson Turner.
            The study of the British overseas colonies of the old Empire has gone on apace in 
                        England
                     since Trevelyan and Doyle, and the list of distinguished English colonial historians
                    includes such names as those of Sir John Seeley and James A. Williamson, and, more recently, those
                    of A. P. Newton and Richard Pares. One of the most distinguished products of this school is the
                    recent first volume of the 
                  
                            Cambridge
                         History of the British Empire—a volume, indeed, that is apparently
                    far too little known in this country.
            It was easy and natural for Englishmen to write of the colonies as phenomena in the overseas
                    expansion of Britain. It was not so easy for Americans, living in the shadow of George Bancroft and
                    John Fiske, to throw off their nationalistic provincialism and bias and write of the colonies in the
                    moods of the Englishmen and the British-Americans of the pre-Revolutionary era. Those American
                    historians who managed it have introduced a new mood and a new perspective into American
                    historiography.
            
               
                  1 John A. Doyle, English Colonies in America (5 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1889–1907), I, 1–2.
            
            
            The most notable American exponents of the imperial school of colonial historians are Herbert Levi
                    Osgood, George Louis Beer, Charles McLean Andrews, and Lawrence Henry Gipson.
            Osgood was the first important American historian of the colonial period to react against the narrow
                    nationalistic bias of George Bancroft. A pupil of John W. Burgess, who was one of the major stars in
                    the galaxy of German-trained, so-called "scientific" historians, Osgood was
                    convinced that the colonial phase of American history should be studied as "a natural
                    outgrowth of the history of Europe." Thus the task he set himself when he began his
                    monumental study of the thirteen colonies in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries was a twofold
                    one. His own description of his effort is given in the preface to The American Colonies
                        in the Seventeenth Century as follows: "The entire work, while serving as an
                    introduction to American institutional history, will at the same time, it is hoped, illustrate the
                    principles of British colonization, so far as those were revealed in the early relations between the
                    home government and its colonies on the North American continent."2
            
            Thus on the one side, the origin and development of American institutions; on the other, the origin
                    and development of British policy and the institutions of colonial administration and control;
                    policy and institutions an understanding of which is so essential to any real understanding of the
                    colonies and their history—or even of the history of the later United States, for that
                    matter. But Osgood concerned himself only with the colonies on the continent of North America. His
                    major interest was centered, after all, upon the origins of the institutions of the later United
                    States. Thus while his perspective was a much broader one than that of his nationalistic
                    predecessors, he assumed that it was unnecessary for him to concern himself with any of the British
                    colonies other than the thirteen that eventually seceded from the Empire. Osgood is thus both an
                    historian of the colonies and an historian of the United States. As Charles M. Andrews wrote of
                    Osgood's history, it was "not British history, nor yet American history in any
                    narrow and 
                  
                     2 Herbert L. Osgood, The American Colonies in the
                                Seventeenth Century (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1904–1907), I, iii.
               
                     exclusive sense of that term, but something between, more
                    American than British and growing more and more American with every decade that passes."3
            
            The important thing about Osgood is that he realized, more than any other American historian of his
                    generation, perhaps, the fact that the history of the British colonies in 
                        America
                     in the eighteenth century could not be written without great error and distortion, even
                    from the nationalistic point of view, without considering thoroughly and carefully what he called
                    "the British side of the problem."
            The realization of the second of Osgood's objectives, however, the examination of what he
                    called "the British side of the problem," was not actually achieved by Osgood, but
                    by one of his pupils, George Louis Beer. Beer, indeed, disclaimed any direct intention of writing
                    any part of the history of the United States. As he put it, in the preface to his volume on British Colonial Policy, 1754–1765, this "is a study of
                    British policy during the critical period of the old Empire. Thus the essay belongs distinctly to
                    the domain of British history; but to the extent that English and American development were then
                    inseparable. it also, but more indirectly, falls within the field occupied by American history. The
                    focus of interest is, however, the British Empire, and not the rise of the American
                        hisntioll."4
            
            To Beer, then, his task was logically to investigate one aspect of the history of the British Empire.
                    Any elucidation of the history of the United States that might result was for him purely
                    coincidental. But he adhered conscientiously to the historical logic of his position, and his
                    achievement is significant not merely because he made a major contribution to historical knowledge,
                    but also because he succeeded in completely freeing himself from the bias of nationalism.
            Charles M. Andrews, long the dean of the imperial school of American colonial historians and founder
                    of a veritable school of distinguished students of the history of the colonial period among his own
                    pupils, carried the logic of the "imperial" position forward to include all the
                    British colonies in the American hemisphere. The title of his greatest 
                  
                     3 Quoted in Michael Kraus, A History of American
                            History (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 422.
                  
                     4 George L. Beer, British Colonial Policy,
                                1754–1765 (
                                New York
                            , 1907), v.
               
                     work, The Colonial Period of American
                    History, indicates that he, too, like Osgood, is still interested in United States origins; he
                    simply feels that those origins can be seen and understood only in terms of all
                    the British colonies in America, and of their relations with each other and with the mother country.
            Thus, in the preface of his magnum opus he says: "I have had no intention
                    of adding another account to the existing histories of the thirteen original colonies. I have been
                    convinced for many years that to place the colonies in their rightful historical setting and so to
                    discover what our colonial history is all about, it would be necessary to reexamine the evidence
                    from a vantage point other than that usually taken, to view them not from within, as is commonly
                    done, but from without, with the movement constantly forward, following the natural course of
                    historical development, and disregarding all preconceptions based on later events. For this purpose
                    I have approached the subject from the English end, from the land whence the colonists came and of
                    which they were always legally a part, and have broadened the scope of my inquiry to include all
                    England's colonial possessions in the West that were founded in the seventeenth century. I
                    have done this because I believe that final conclusions must always rest upon the experiences
                    England had with all, not a part, of her colonies. That some of these colonies remained British
                    while others became American does not, historically speaking, enter in as a determining
                        factor."5
            
            It is to be observed, of course, that Andrews' interest is still in the early period of
                    "our history"—a phrase that he uses repeatedly. He is apparently at
                    heart still a nationalist, just as Osgood was; his originality lay in his method of determining just
                    what the truth in this early period of "our history" was. That is to say, he was
                    convinced that any history of the "thirteen original colonies" that omitted a
                    discussion of the British West Indies, on the one hand, or of the institutional development of the
                    mother country relative to the colonies, on the other, could only result in a distortion of the
                    truth. Thus to understand "our history," one must see 
                  
                     5 Charles M. Andrews, The Colonial Period of American
                                History (4 vols., 
                        New Haven,
                                    Connecticut
                     ,
                            1934–1938), I, xi.
               
                     this early part of it as an organic part of the British
                    American Empire.
            But Andrews succeeded in doing what neither Beer nor Osgood had succeeded in doing. For he was able
                    to describe both the internal institutional developments of the colonies and the British
                    institutions of colonial administration, together with the relationships between them, all together
                    in his one great work.
            But it is Lawrence H. Gipson who has carried the position of the Imperial School to its logical
                    conclusion. For Gipson's work is concerned with the British Empire between 1750 and 1776 as
                    such; and, except for the warm blast against Tom Paine, George Bancroft, and the historical
                    distortions perpetrated by the nationalist school that appears in the beginning of volume six,
                    Gipson writes his history much as a man of 1760 might have written it, as though the United States
                    had never existed. He has succeeded, about as nearly as anyone might be expected to do, in divesting
                    himself of the American habit of seeing the colonial period through the distorting haze of the
                    history of the United States —even, indeed, of the "our history" mood
                    of Andrews.
            The title of Gipson's work indicates his position: The British Empire before
                        the American Revolution. His history, as it is projected, must, of course, include the
                    history of the change in attitude on the part of the Americans of the thirteen colonies that led
                    them, in the thirty-odd years before 1776, to change from contented British subjects into a body of
                    Americans fired with a hatred of England and determined upon independence. But Gipson's
                    work is, nevertheless, primarily a history of the old Empire in that period. And, since it is that,
                    it is not limited to the colonies in the American hemisphere, but includes all the colonies of the
                    Empire, including those of Africa and India; further, as it is a history of the Empire as a whole
                    and not just the colonies, it must needs discuss all the other parts of the Empire as well,
                    including Britain itself. Gipson begins about 1760; for, as he says, "to get a view of the
                    old Empire in a state of tranquillity and equilibrium for the last time in its history one must
                    indeed turn to the brief period between the end of the War of the Austrian Succession and the
                    outbreak of hostilities  between the English and French in North
                    America that led to the great Seven Years' War."6
            
            Thus Gipson is primarily and exclusively an historian of the old British Empire. The problem he sets
                    himself is much broader than that of either Osgood, Beer, or Andrews; his approach to history is
                    much broader, also; for where they are historians of institutions, Gipson is an historian of
                    civilization, covering social phenomena, military and economic history, and other aspects of life as
                    well as political events and institutions. He is concerned little, if at all, with the history of
                    the United States, although he does give a little greater emphasis to the American British colonies
                    than he does to the British colonies elsewhere in the world, and although in any discussion of
                    imperial history in the years between 1750 and 1775 the reasons for the American Revolution and the
                    formation of the United States must inevitably appear.
            These, then, are the chief American exponents of the imperial school of colonial historians. Osgood,
                    Beer, and Andrews appear to belong, in the last analysis, to the so-called German school of
                    "scientific" history. Their works are all primarily institutional histories; and
                    all three of these writers, particularly Beer and Andrews, base their conclusions largely upon
                    original source materials of an "official" documentary sort. As Andrews says,
                    "The historian, if he is to keep both his levels and his proportions true, cannot fail to
                    stress, first of all, the institutional and structural aspects of colonial life, which, despite
                    certain present-day opinions to the contrary, are fundamental to any right understanding of the
                    colonial past."7 Gipson, on the other hand, is more of a social
                    historian. As he says, his work "makes no attempt to institutionalize the old British
                    Empire but is concered rather with an analysis of some of those forces—economic, social,
                    and political—motivating various geographical groups within it before the American
                        Revolution."8 His work, too, is based predominantly upon official
                    documents; 
                  
                     6 Lawrence H. Gipson, The British Empire Before the
                                American Revolution (6 vols., 
                        Caldwell, Idaho
                     , and 
                                New York
                            , 1936–1946), I, Great Britain and Ireland, viii.
                  
                     7 Andrewa, The Colonial Period of American History,
                            IV, 428.
                  
                     8 Gipaon, The British Empire Before the American
                                Revolution, I, ix.
               
                     but he uses more contemporary imprints and personal papers than
                    the others.
            All of these historians are conscious of, and affected by, the influence of economic concerns upon
                    human history. As Andrews says, however, "if he [the historian] is honest to himself and
                    his evidence he cannot neglect the imponderable forces (always most difficult to identify and
                    trace), as well as the driving influence of emotional and mass psychology. These factors are
                    essential, however much those who can see in society, present and past, only things that are
                    ‘real’ and ‘practical’… and consider
                    irrelevant whatever cannot be pinned down as a social or economic activity. No one should deal with
                    the past whose ambition it is to find a single cause for all that has happened or who is unwilling
                    to admit the existence of many causes acting simultaneously."9 He
                    quotes J. M. Keynes to the effect that "‘The view that the economic ideal is the
                    sole respectable purpose of the community as a whole is the most dreadful heresy which has ever
                    gained the ear of a civilized people.’"10 And Andrews
                    himself continues, "Modern industrialism would seem to be responsible for these latter-day
                    attempts to interpret the past in the light of the present and to apply the Marxian doctrine that
                    social progress is the outcome of class conflict and of nothing else."11
            
            It is of considerable interest to notice that, with the exception of Beer, the historians of this
                    group share some of the basic positions of the so-called "frontier school" of
                    American historians symbolized by Frederick Jackson Turner. For Osgood, Andrews, and Gipson all
                    appear to accept, in one degree or another, the proposition that the culture inherited from the
                    mother country underwent so profound a modification or differentiation in the course of replanting
                    and new growth in the new environment as to make the product of this adaptation an essentially new
                    variant of the broad culture pattern of western civilization. Andrews describes the colonies in the
                    eighteenth century as having "marked individual and sectional differences that made
                    cooperation difficult and union practically impossible, each moving forward in its own sphere toward
                    a popular and local management 
                  
                     9 Andrews, The Colonial Period of American History,
                            IV, 428.
                  
                     10
                     Ibid.
                  
                     11
                     Ibid.
               
                     of its own affairs, through the growth to prominence and
                    leadership of its representative assembly. These colonies … were putting into practice
                    certain ideas regarding government, law, land tenure, and finance that were not in accord with
                    English precedent and usage. In these conflicts and divergences of the eighteenth century are to be
                    found the beginnings of American history properly so called …."12 And in another place Andrews says "The story of how this was done—how
                    that which was English slowly and imperceptibly merged into that which was American—has
                    never been adequately told; but it is a fascinating phase of history, more interesting and
                    enlightening when studied against the English background than when construed as an American problem
                    only. It is the story of the gradual elimination of those elements, feudal and proprietary, that
                    were foreign to the normal life of a frontier land, and of the gradual adjustment of the colonies to
                    the restraints and restrictions that were imposed upon them by the commercial policy of the mother
                    country. It is the story also of the growth of the colonial assemblies … It is above all
                    … the story of the gradual transformation of these assemblies from the provincial
                    councils that the home government intended them to be into miniature parliaments. At the end of a
                    long struggle … they emerged powerful legislative bodies, as self-conscious in their way
                    as the House of Commons in 
                        England
                     was becoming during the same eventful years."13 On the
                    other hand, in seeing the emergence of truly American institutions, differentiated from those of
                    England or of Europe under the influence of the local American geographic and ethnic environment as
                    manifestations of the Turnerian process in the formation of cultures, these historians in effect
                    relate the Turner thesis to the larger process of European expansion. The result seems to be that
                    the American frontier becomes the frontier of western civilization, to be sure, but one in which
                    both the processes of continuity and the processes of new cultural growth are going on together to
                    produce, around the periphery of the so-called Atlantic community, 
                  
                     12
                     Ibid., I, xiii.
                  
                     13 C. M. Andrews, "The American Revolution: An
                            Interpretation," American Historical Review (
                                New York
                            , 1895–), XXXI (1925–1926), 226–227.
               
                     cultures which are, to say the very least, new and in many
                    cases sharply different cultural variants of western civilization. Further, as the history of the
                    "old British empire" is a part of the expansion of Europe in general, these
                    historians, particularly Beer, Osgood, and Gipson, along with Francis Parkman, relate the
                    development of the British colonies, in one way or another, to the parallel developments of their
                    non-British neighbors; although it is Herbert E. Bolton and his students who have made the most
                    conscious and deliberate efforts to relate the Anglo-Saxon colonial expansion in this hemisphere to
                    that of the other colonizing European nations.
            The broadened perspective of the imperial school of colonial historians, and their effort to see the
                    British-American colonial phenomenon in terms of its organic relationship with Britain and the rest
                    of the Empire seems to be a refutation, for this particular group, at least, of Professor C. J. H.
                    Hayes' charge at 
                        Washington
                     that "a striking general fact about it [our historical writing] during the
                    past seventy years has been the tendency to turn away from European themes and to concentrate upon
                    strictly American."14 This generalization is probably in a general
                    sense true. And it is also doubtless true, as Professor Hayes says, that the vogue of the restricted
                    interpretation of the American frontier that sees it as "a peculiarly American phenomenon,
                    determining the unique character of our national society and culture," and "the
                    concurrent neglect of broader and otherwise obvious considerations, have been … at once a
                    result and a stimulant of growing intellectual isolationism in the United States."15
            
            But the members of the imperial school have been acutely conscious of the provincialism of historians
                    of the United States in their approach to the colonial period, and they deliberately set out to
                    combat it. To quote Andrews again, "American writers, except in an incidental way, have
                    ignored the English side of the story, because it was English and therefore out of their range if
                    not beyond their ken … The time must come, however, when this duality of interest will be
                    regarded as a necessary 
                  
                     14 Carlton J. H. Hayes, "The American
                            Frontier—Frontier of What?" American Historical
                            Review, LI (1946–1946), 202.
                  
                     15
                     Ibid., 201.
               
                     part of the stock in trade of every serious writer on the
                    subject who deals with it in a fair-minded and comprehensive way, and not until that time has come
                    will this long and eventful period of our country's past receive its merited treatment as
                    history unalloyed and find proper recognition not merely as a phase preliminary to our own career as
                    a nation, but also as an integral part of the English and Continental history in an era of
                    colonization and commercial and maritime aggrandizement."16
            
            Gipson is even more deliberate in his effort to correct the errors of provincial American
                    nationalism. As he puts it in the preface to Volume VI of his monumental description of the British
                    Empire before the American Revolution, "In the present work one of the motives that
                    dictated the selection of topics and space allotted to each of these has been a desire to emphasize
                    certain important aspects of the history of this conflict [The Seven Years' War] that have
                    been, it would seem, especially subject to popular misconceptions and even to serious
                    misinterpretations on the part of many historians and of others who are not."17 And among the chief of these misconceptions, fathered by Tom Paine and propagated by
                    George Bancroft, was the idea "that the connection of Americans with monarchical Great
                    Britain, far from being a blessing, had actually been a curse …."18
            
            The imperial school of colonial historians, then, may be said to be distinguished by its deliberate
                    effort to relate what was going on in British America in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries to
                    what was going on in Europe at the same time, thereby placing the history of this continent in a
                    more correct perspective relative to the development of western civilization as a whole. While they
                    do seem to accept, if with some caution, the Turner hypothesis of the formation of new cultures,
                    they relate that hypothesis to the great phenomenon, the expansion of Europe. In doing so it would
                    appear that they, perhaps more than any other group of historians interested primarily in American
                    history, have escaped the limitations of nationalistic bias or myopia. It might even be suggested
                    that an attitude toward American 
                  
                     16 Andrews, The Colonial Period of American History,
                            I, xiv.
                  
                     17 Gipson, The British Empire Before the American
                                Revolution, VI, The Great War For the Empire, ix.
                  
                     18 Ibid., 5.
               
                     history, or any part of it, that sees that history in terms of
                    its world perspective is highly desirable in a generation of historians as acutely conscious as ours
                    is that our very survival as a nation seems to depend upon an understanding of the origins and
                    nature of our external relations.
         
         
         
            The Quaker in Anglo-American Cultural Relations
            Charles Roll*
            
            For many years the economic interpretation of history was the popular one with American historians.
                    The economic influence, however, is not the only one with which to reckon. Man does not live by
                    bread alone. Certainly his art, literature, and religion are as important as his material
                    development. Charles Beard who has been regarded as the leading economic determinist modified his
                    views to a considerable extent before his death. He is quoted as saying, "I have never been
                    able to discover an all pervading determinism in history." In the last few years there has
                    been a new interest in the cultural approach to history. The economic emphasis has perhaps had its
                    inning and the pendulum seems to be swinging at the present time toward the cultural emphasis. Such
                    notable collections, largely on the cultural aspects of history as may be found at the Newberry
                    Library in 
                        Chicago
                     and the 
                        Huntington
                     Library in San Marino, 
                        California
                    , are having their influence. The establishment of the Institute of Early American
                    History and Culture at 
                  Williamsburg, Virginia
               , is an indication of the growing
                    interest in the cultural side of American history. Witness also the work of Merle Curti of the
                    University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , Howard Mum-ford Jones of 
                        Harvard
                    , and Van Wyck Brooks in the field of literary history, William W. Sweet in religious
                    history, Louis B. Wright, formerly director of research at the 
                        Huntington
                     Library and now of Folger Shakespeare Library in 
                        Washington
                    , and Thomas J. Wertenbaker, who has recently retired from 
                        Princeton
                     to become director of the Institute of Early American History at 
                        Williamsburg
                    . It is not without significance that Wertenbaker selected for his presidential address
                    before the American Historical Association in 1947 at the 
                        Cleveland
                     meeting "The Molding of the Middle West," which had to do largely
                    with the transplanting of eastern culture in the west. His volumes on The Founding of
                        American
                    
                  
                     * Charles Roll is a member of the history department at
                            Indiana State Teachers College, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana. This paper was read at the meeting of The Indiana Academy of Social
                            Sciences at 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, November 6, 1948.
                  
                     1
                     American Historical Review (
                                New York
                            , 1895–), LIII (1947–1948), 223–234.
               
                    
                    Civilization have for their chief theme early American culture. The even better
                    known twelve-volume History of American Life series edited by Arthur M.
                    Schlesinger and Dixon Ryan Fox is devoted in the main to a history of American culture.
            The reawakening of interest in American cultural history is further evidenced by the restoration and
                    preservation of many early American homes of distinction such as Stratford, Carter's Grove,
                    and Westover in 
                        Virginia
                    , the 
                        Hammond
                     House in Annapolis and Mount Pleasant in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and the whole village of 
                        Williamsburg
                    . The great interest manifested in early American furnishings, such as those exhibited
                    in the American wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, is but another proof of this awakening.
            Now it is generally recognized that in the field of American cultural history Anglo-American cultural
                    relations loom large. America's cultural heritage from England has been far greater than
                    from any other country, greater than many realize or are willing to admit. Whether one's
                    ancestors came from England or from other lands beyond the sea makes no difference. All have shared
                    in this inheritance. Why is it important to stress this point, it might be queried. For one thing it
                    is probably easier to arouse anti-British feeling in this country than it is against any other
                    country. Old prejudices based on impressions gained from misguided and distorted history textbooks
                    of a previous generation still persist. There are forces always ready and willing to cater to this
                    sentiment. Everyone will remember the campaign waged along this line not so many years ago in the
                    two largest cities in the United States. A book was published bearing the intriguing title England Expects Every American to do his Duty. It was an attempt to prove how we
                    had been made the dupe of the English.2
            
            I, for one, believe that the future of our civilization depends upon the close co-operation of the
                    two great English-speaking nations. Such co-operation can flourish only in an atmosphere of good
                    understanding and friendship. This, in turn, in large measure grows out of a knowledge of our common
                    culture.
            
               
                  2
                        
                            Quincy
                         Howe, England Expects Every American To Do His Duty (
                            New York
                        , 1937).
            
            
            The close contact of the colonial planters of the southern colonies with the mother country is well
                    known. They made frequent visits to the old home. They sent their sons to be educated in the great
                    public schools of England such as Eton and Winchester, to the colleges of 
                        Oxford
                     and 
                        Cambridge
                    , and to the Inns of Court. They attempted as nearly as possible to live the lives of
                    English country gentlemen in the New World.
            It is not so generally known that equally close relations with England were maintained by the Quakers
                    in America. The "Society of Friends," the official name since 1800, originally
                    known as "Children of Light," later as "Friends in Truth" or
                    just "Friends" and nicknamed "Quakers" by a 
                        Puritan
                     magistrate, originated in 
                        England
                     near the middle of the seventeenth century, in the year 1648 to be exact, when the
                    group at Mansfield in Nottingshire was formed.3 It had some things in common and
                    was influenced by German Quietism or Pietism. George Fox, the founder of English Quakerism, came to
                    America in 1672 and spent about a year traveling through 
                        Maryland
                    , Rhode Island, parts of 
                  New York,
                            New Jersey, Virginia
               , and the Carolinas. In his journal writing of this trip, he
                    speaks of the hazardous crossing of rivers, filled with rocks and stones, by means of canoes,
                    swimming the horses, of making a fire at night in the woods where he slept and dried himself,
                    frequently wet to the skin. Upon his return to England he could write his
                    wife—"Glory to the Lord for ever, who hath carried us through many perils,
                    perils by water, and in storms, perils by pirates and robbers, perils in the wilderness, and amongst
                    false professors; praises to him whose glory is over all for ever."4 It
                    may be a matter of interest that Swarthmore derived its name from Swarthmore Hall, the fine old
                    Elizabethan Manor House and Lancashire residence of Margaret Fell, who became the wife of George
                    Fox. It was one of the most important 
                        Quaker
                     centers in all England. Fox was but the forerunner of a stream of 
                        Quaker
                     missionaries that became larger than ever in the eighteenth century and continued even
                    into the nineteenth century. Scarcely a year 
                  
                     3 William G. Braithwaite, "Society of Friends," in
                            James Hastings, Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics (13 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1908–1927), VI (1914), 143–144.
                  
                     4
                            A Journal or Historical Account of … George Fox (
                                Philadelphia
                            , n.d.), 447–464, 465.
               
                     went by without a number of these "gospel
                    visits" by English Friends to their brethren in America.5
            
            Outstanding among these missionaries of the eighteenth century were the Fothergills—John
                    and Samuel, father and son—who represented Quakerism at its best, in its purest, and most
                    saintly form. Another son, John, became a well-known 
                        London
                     physician and friend of Benjamin Franklin. He strove hard for reconciliation between
                    England and America. He also had a prominent part in co-operation with another Friend, David
                    Barclay, in the founding of the Friends Boarding School at Ackworth, in Yorkshire, which became a
                    model for similar schools later established in America.6
            
            It might be thought that once in 
                        America
                     Quakers would turn their backs forever on a land where their suffering had been so
                    great. After the restoration of the Stuarts in 1660 and the adoption of the Clarendon Code, Quakers
                    suffered the most severely of all the dissenting sects.7 It was only with the
                    Glorious Revolution of 1689 when toleration was extended to all dissenters that this persecution
                    ceased. George Fox is said to have been imprisoned eight different times in this period as a
                    blasphemer, heretic, and seducer and was at least on one occasion threatened with death by hanging.
                    Margaret Fell spent several years in prison and suffered great hardships there. William Penn was
                    expelled from 
                        Oxford
                     for his non-conformist views and was imprisoned on two or three occasions, once in the
                    Tower of 
                        London
                    . But the Quakers in 
                        America
                     did not sever their ties with England. There is abundant proof of this fact found in
                    visits by American Friends to the motherland, in the constant correspondence of individuals, and of
                    the contacts maintained between yearly meetings in 
                        America
                     with the yearly meeting in 
                        London
                    .
            William Penn himself came over from England only twice to visit his colony. The first visit was in
                    1682, when he remained a little less than two years returning to further the interests of
                    Pennsylvania in 
                        England
                     and to aid the Society 
                  
                     5 William W. Sweet, Religion in Colonial America (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 153–158; James Bowden, The History of the
                                Society of Friends in America (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1850–1854), II, chapter IX.
                  
                     6 Rufus Jones, The Later Periods of Quakerism (2
                            vols., 
                                London
                            , 1921), I, 12–16; II, 670–673.
                  
                     7 G. M. Trevelyan, English Social History (
                                London
                            , 1943), 266.
               
                     of Friends in his native land. The second was in 1699 for about
                    the same length of time.8 No 
                        Virginia
                     planter ever succeeded better in imitating the life of an English country gentleman
                    than Penn. He was a lover of stately living, good food and the best of wine. In addition to his town
                    house in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , he possessed a magnificent country place consisting of an estate of eight thousand
                    acres on the banks of the 
                        Delaware
                     known as Pennsbury. Here he had erected a large brick mansion surrounded by lawns
                    seeded with English grass, and formal gardens, planted with trees and shrubs from England, and
                    flower beds cared for by English gardeners. The house was lavishly furnished. Outside were stables
                    and brew house. His passage to 
                        Philadelphia
                     was either in a twelve-oared barge or in a four-horse coach.9
            
            Struthers Burt in his interesting volume on 
                        
                            Philadelphia
                        
                    —Holy Experiment says, "During the seventeenth century
                    many culture English families, a number of them connected with the aristocracy, became Quakers.
                    Under the sober surface gravity of their church they still cherished a deep love of comfort and
                    restrained luxury … Many of them arrived in 
                        Philadelphia
                     with numerous servants; some even with packs of foxhounds."10
            
            That many of the Quakers succeeded in obtaining their full share of this world's goods is
                    evident by the opulent homes owned by many of them in and around 
                        Philadelphia
                     on the banks of the 
                        Delaware
                    , the Schuylkill, and the Wissahickon. English books on architecture were eagerly
                    studied by them.11
            
            When the capital of the nation was located in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1790–1800, it was not an uncommon sight to see strict Quakers with gold
                    snuffboxes, gold-headed canes, and great silver buckles.12 It is only fair to
                    say that many Quakers frowned upon such extravagance. Rigid rules were 
                  
                     8 Rayner W. Kelsey, "William Penn," in Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1943), XIV, 433–437.
                  
                     9 Struthers Burt, 
                                
                                    Philadelphia
                                
                            —Holy Experiment (
                        Garden City, New
                            York
                     , 1945), 66–67.
                  
                     10
                     Ibid., 66.
                  
                     11 Thomas J. Wertenbaker, The Founding of American
                                Civilization (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1938–1947), I, The Middle Colonies,
                            231–255.
                  
                     12 Van Wyck Brooks, The World of Washington Irving (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1944), 7.
               
                     drawn up and warnings were issued by Quaker meetings against
                    it.
            On his second trip to America in 1699, Penn was accompanied by James Logan, who came as the
                    Proprietor's secretary. Born in Ireland of Scottish parents who were members of the Society
                    of Friends, much of Logan's early life was spent in 
                        England
                    . He became learned in the classics and possessed a great interest in natural science.
                    For a time before coming to America, he was master of a Friends school in Bristol. The fifty years
                    of his life in Pennsylvania is to a large extent the history of the colony. He represented the
                    interests of the proprietors and held numerous offices.
            Despite his busy public career, Logan found time to make several trips back to England and to
                    continue his scholarly pursuits. He corresponded with men of similar intellectual interests in 
                        England
                     such as Peter Collinson and made frequent contributions to the Royal Society in 
                        London
                    . At his country home near 
                        Germantown
                    , which he called Stenton after his father's birthplace in 
                        Scotland
                    , he lived the life of an aristocratic, cultivated, English gentleman. Here he gathered
                    a library of over three thousand volumes, the largest in the middle colonies, and one of the most
                    select in colonial America. He was later to bequeath the collection to the Library Company of 
                        Philadelphia
                     with a building to house it and with an endowment which has resulted in its substantial
                    increase since his death in 1751.13
            
            One day a simple Quaker was plowing on his small farm near 
                        Philadelphia
                    . While resting in the shade, he happened to see a daisy which he broke off its stem and
                    began to study. It started a train of thought in the mind of the farmer. He had been destroying
                    plants and blossoms for years and he knew nothing about them. He took up Latin in order to learn the
                    Latin names of plants. John Bartram became the leading botanist of his day in America. His botanical
                    garden which he developed on his farm became well known in 
                        England
                     where Bartram had many correspondents including Peter Collinson, the 
                        Quaker
                     book collector and naturalist of 
                        London
                    , with whom he corresponded for nearly 
                  
                     13 Charles F. Jenkins, "James Logan of Stenton," in
                                Byways in 
                                    Quaker
                                 History, edited by Howard H. Brinton (Wallingford, 1944),
                            138–149; Burt, 
                                
                                    Philadelphia
                                
                            —Holy Experiment, 203–204.
               
                     forty years, and Peter Miller, Superintendent of the Chelsea
                        Gardens.14
            
            Bartram learned from Collinson how to collect, classify, pack, and ship these specimens. He received
                    from him scientific books to read. It was through Collinson that Bartram was made known to the
                    Prince of 
                        Wales
                     and the Dukes of Norfolk, of 
                        Bedford
                    , and of 
                        Richmond
                    . He sent them all plants and seeds with which to beautify their estates. He was
                    employed to supply specimens to the king, many of which found their way to Kew Gardens and gave him
                    the title of the king's botanist or Royal American Botanist to George III. He is said to
                    have been responsible for the introduction of between one hundred and fifty and two hundred native
                    American plants into England.
            Bartram, at the suggestion of his English 
                        Quaker
                     friend, Collinson, paid a visit to 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Maryland
                    . In arranging for this journey, Collinson wrote his American 
                        Quaker
                     friend "that thou make up thy drugget clothes to go to 
                        Virginia
                     in and not appear to disgrace thyself or me; for though I should not esteem thee less
                    to come to me in what dress thou will—yet these Virginians are a very gentle well-dressed
                    people and look perhaps more at a man's outside than his inside. For these and other
                    reasons pray go very clean, neat and handsomely dressed to 
                        Virginia
                    ." From reports of the planters visited, Collinson had no reason to be ashamed
                    of his 
                        Quaker
                     friend from Pennsylvania.15 In fact the American 
                        Quaker
                     may well have been wearing clothes sent to him by the English 
                        Quaker
                    , for Collinson frequently sent him various articles of clothing.
            John Bartram's son, William, was a botanist and nature lover and continued the work of his
                    father. His volume of Travels was read by William Wordsworth and Samuel T.
                    Coleridge. Bartram's views on nature and religion exerted a great influence on these
                    poets—another cultural contact.16
            
            
               
                  14 Brooks, Th. World of Washington Irving,
                        20–21; Burt, 
                            
                                Philadelphia
                            
                        —Holy Experiment, 207.
               
                  15 Mary F. Goodwin, "The Eighteenth-Century Gardens," in
                            The Virginia Quarterly Review (University, 
                            Virginia
                        , 1925), X (1934), 218–233.
               
                  16 Ernest Earnest, John and William Bartram (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1940), 132–140.
            
            
            A contemporary of Bartram in eighteenth century America was the 
                        Quaker
                    , John Woolman, a native of 
                        New Jersey
                    , termed "the consumate flower of American Quakerism." Certainly a
                    more unassuming man with less thought of self never lived. He was thoroughly devoted to a cause,
                    that cause being freedom for the slaves. He was a great lover of humanity. William Ellery Channing
                    once referred to the Journal of John Woolman as "beyond comparison the sweetest and purest
                    autobiography in the language." Charles Lamb also exclaimed "Get the writing of
                    Jchn Woolman by heart." Woolman died on a trip to England in the interests of antislavery
                    in 1772 and was buried in the city of York. His fame was greater in 
                        England
                     than in America. "She [England] became John Woolman's best
                    pupil," declares Txvelyan.17
            
            Whether Benjamin West was a 
                        Quaker
                     or not is of little moment. Some historians refer to him as such. Others say he never
                    actually affiliated with the Friends church. However that may be, this Pennsylvania born son came
                    from a Quaker family and possessed many of the characteristics of a 
                        Quaker
                     as well as some that were not. England has as great a claim upcn him as dnierica.
                    Sevcral years before the outbreak of the Revolution, he went to that country and remained there to
                    the end of his life. He became the favorite court painter of George III and the successor of Sir
                    Joshua Reynolds as president of the Royal Academy. Until his death in 1820, a stream of young
                    American painters including John S. Copley, Gilbert Stuart, John Trumbull, and Charles Willson Peale
                    found their way to his 
                        London
                     studio to study under him and to receive his encouragement. A familiar story which may
                    or may not be true is that one day in the presence of George III he replied to a question by
                    remarking "I cannot say that the calamities of my native country can ever give me
                    pleasure." The king, placing his hand on West's shoulder, graciously said,
                    "The man who does not love his own country can never make a faithful subject of another nor
                    a true friend." Upon the death of this "father of American Painting,"
                        
                  
                     17 G. M. Trevelyan, Clio, a Muse and Other Essays (
                                London
                            , 1930), 42–48.
               
                     as he has been called, he was buried in 
                        St. Paul
                    's Cathedral beside his friend, Sir Joshua Reynolds.18
            
            Everyone who has used the voluminous telephone directory of 
                        New York City
                     has noticed the prefix to certain numbers, such as Murray Hill. How many know that this
                    name which still clings to an important section of the metropolis is that of a prominent Quaker
                    family? Robert Murray, a Scotch immigrant, became one of the leading merchants of 
                        New York
                    . His home on Murray Hill was noted for its elegance and hospitality. The house was
                    exempted from seizure by the British when they captured 
                        New York
                     in the Revolution because of aid given to them by the owner. A son, Lindley Murray, a
                    well-to-do 
                        Quaker
                     lawyer, departed for England in 1784 because of his health. He purchased a small estate
                    outside York named Holgate. Here he developed one of the most beautiful gardens in 
                        England
                    . Murray also found time to write schoolbooks. His English grammar written in 1795,
                    practically monopolized the field in 
                        England
                     and the United States for many years and gave to the author the title of the
                    "Father of English Grammar." In his old age Murray's home became a mecca
                    for English as well as American Quakers.19
            
            Let us take an example from more recent times, that of Logan Pearsall Smith, who numbered James Logan
                    among his ancestors. Logan Pearsall was not the first 
                        Quaker
                     of the Smith clan to turn his face toward England. "The Philadelphia Quakers
                    had always kept up a connection with members of their sect in 
                        England
                    ," he writes, "and this connection was frequently renewed by the
                    visits of English Friends on holy missions … A world of Barclays and Gurneys and other
                    rich English 
                        Quaker
                     families which, like a 
                        Quaker
                    
                    
                        Versailles
                    , holy and yet splendid, shone for us across the Atlantic with a kind of glory
                        …."20 He had heard from his grandfather of a visit to
                    the country houses and opulent tables of these English Quakers. He had heard him tell of being
                    entertained in the noble family mansion of the Perm 
                  
                     18 Mantle Fielding, "Benjamin West," in Dictionary of American Biography, XX, 6–9; Robert E. Siller, The American in 
                                    England
                                 during the First Half Century of Independence (
                                New York
                            , 1926), 75, 79.
                  
                     19 George H. Genzmer, "Lindley Murray," in Dictionary of American Biography, XIII, 365–366.
                  
                     20 Logan Pearsall Smith, Unforgotten Years (
                                Boston
                            , 1939), 19.
               
                     family. He had shot a buck in the deer park and the
                    greatgrandson of William Penn had driven him about the neighborhood in a coach drawn by four horses
                    and had taken him on a trip to 
                        Oxford
                    .21
            
            As a boy, Logan Pearsall Smith had himself been taken by his parents on a visit to England where the
                    family was entertained at a number of country houses, among them Broadlands in 
                        Hampshire
                    , the home of the Cowper Temples, a family of great wealth and high position.22
            
            It is not surprising, therefore, that Pearsall Smith decided years later to go to 
                        Oxford
                     in order to complete his education. "Our family," he writes,
                    "had been gazing for long across the ocean. They had crossed it for religious motives; and
                    when those motives ceased to exist, they had no reason for remaining in a land in which they were
                    essentially aliens. Like so many English families settled on the eastern coast of America, they had
                    really remained in 
                        England
                     all the time."23
            
            And so in 1888, Smith went to Balliol College, 
                        Oxford
                    , presided over at that time by the great Benjamin Jowett. "I shared in that 
                        Oxford
                     life," writes Smith, "which, in its setting of old colleges and
                    gardens and little rivers, is surely the happiest and most enchanting life that is possible to young
                    mortals. A taste of Paradise, a bit of the old golden word … I had not known that life
                    could hold such happiness such enchanting talks and friendships, such kindness and good fellowship;
                    and I drank to the full from the enchanted cup."24
            
            The enchantment proved to be a lasting one and Logan Pearsall Smith joined the ranks of literary
                    expatriates along with Henry James and T. S. Eliot.
            On the banks of the River Yare in 
                        Norfolk
                     stands a dignified brick mansion in the midst of a large park with great lawns, trees,
                    and flower gardens. The place, known as Earlham Hall, came into the possession of the Quaker family
                    of John and Catherine Gurney in 1786, the parents of Eliwrbeth Gurney, later Elizabeth Fry,
                    prominent in the annals 
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 20–21.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 42–45.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 164.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 194–195.
               
                     of English Quakerism. Here Joseph Gurney was born in 1788.25 Like many of the sons of English country gentry he was sent to 
                        Oxford
                    . Many years later in 1837, Joseph visited the United States. In the course of three
                    years he visited every corner and remote region where Friends were settled giving them aid and
                    encouragement. Rufus Jones says, "He gave distinction to the Society which it had not to
                    the same degree received since the birth period of Quakerism."
            On the occasion of this missionary journey, Joseph Gurney attended the yearly meeting of the Friends
                    in Indiana at 
                        Richmond
                    . He reached the town from the east traveling over what he calls "the great
                    Western road," which he found crowded with movers. "Immigration," he
                    writes in his memoirs, "seems the order of the day." Already steps had been taken
                    to establish a 
                        Quaker
                     Boarding School in 
                        Richmond
                    . Gurney, who had been an influential teacher at Ack-worth, made a donation to the
                    proposed school, which was later increased by his widow. Other English Friends also came forward
                    with gifts. The school modeled after similar ones in 
                        England
                    , opened as a boarding school of high standing in 1847. It received a charter from the
                    state a few years later as Earlham College, named for the home of the Gurneys in 
                        Norfolk County
                    , England. Thus this school bears an old and honored English name.26
            
            There were many precedents for the gifts received by Earlham from England. Without such aid many of
                    the colonial colleges could not have been established. English names were given to a number of
                    them—for example, 
                        Harvard
                    , William and Mary, Yale, King's, Queen's, and Dartmouth.
            One cannot help but notice a close resemblance of some of the buildings on the Earlham campus with
                    their red brick and white wood trim, small windows, cornice decoration, and doorways to some of the
                    college buildings in the 
                        Harvard
                     Yard, to those on the new campus of Johns Hopkins University in 
                        Baltimore
                     and to the Sir Christopher Wren building of William and Mary as well as other buildings
                    in restored 
                  
                     25 Percy Lubbock, Earlham (
                                New York
                            , 1922), 179, 199; Joseph B. Braithwaite, Memoris of Joseph John
                                Gurney (2 vols in one, 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1854), I, 11–16, 29–34.
                  
                     26 Jones, The Later Periods of Quakerism, I,
                            518–619, II, 697; Memoirs of Joseph John Gurney, II,
                            103–104.
               
                    
                    
                        Williamsburg
                    . There must be some common source. This architecture, if I am not mistaken, is
                    eighteenth century Georgian, sometimes termed colonial, and its origin was in 
                        England
                    .
            In the promotion of closer Anglo-American cultural relations, the 
                        Quaker
                     appears to have had his full share. It is obvious that it has not been altogether a
                    one-way street, not merely a flowing of ideas from east to west but also from west to east as such
                    names as Bartram, Logan, Woolman, Murray, and Smith amply testify. The Quaker in 
                        America
                     has been on the giving as well as the receiving end of this transit of
                civilization.
         
         
         
            Lathrop M. Taylor Hanna and Taylor Partnership
            Bert Amon*
            
            The partnership of Lathrop M. Taylor of 
                        South Bend
                     and Samuel Hanna of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was formed in the fall of 1831, and the winter's fur operations were,
                    therefore, on the new basis. Taylor had been a clerk for the S. Hanna and Company. By the terms of
                    the agreement, he was starting with the opportunity of sharing equally in the returns from unpaid
                    accounts if they could be collected. This would be a fairly comfortable sum, $844.57, of
                    which he considered $293.78 as "bad."1 He also
                    assumed most of the responsibilities for the successful direction of the business, in a field where
                    a twenty-five to fifty per cent profit was considered necessary.2 This period in
                    which Taylor for the time was free to act independently is, therefore, significant because it showed
                    the evolution of his business techniques.
            The town of 
                        South Bend
                     was a typical pioneer village in 1831 and 1832. Its future was dependent on
                    transportation and immigration, but it had not ceased to be an Indian trading post. Taylor was a
                    member of a committee which petitioned Congress for a new northern Indiana land office, but the
                    petition was unsuccessful.3 The first keelboat on the St. Joseph
                    River, the "Fair Play," arrived at 
                        South Bend
                     July 1, 1832, with a load of goods for Horace Chapin. It was built by Peter Johnson,
                    who came to 
                        South Bend
                     in 1830, and whose daughter, Mary, became Taylor's wife.4
                    Taylor wrote to General John Tipton concerning the post routes, saying that it took longer to get
                    mail from 
                        Indianapolis
                     than from Washington, D.C. and as long as from 
                        Detroit
                     The 
                        Michigan
                    
                    
                  
                     * Bert Anson is an instructor at James Whitcomb Riley High
                            School, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana. See a previous article by the author, "The Early Years of
                            Lathrop M. Taylor, The Fur Trader," in the Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XLIV (1948), 367–383.
                  
                     1 S. Hanna and Company, Invoice Book, 1827–1828, p. 66.
                  
                     2 Lewis E. Atherton, The Pioneer Merchant in
                            Mid-America in the University of 
                                Missouri
                            
                            Studies (
                        Columbia, Missouri
                     , 1926), XIV, No. 2 (1939), 102.
                  
                     3
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, North-Western Pioneer, December 7, 14, 1831.
                  
                     4
                     Ibid., November 23, 1831, Janua 4, 1832; 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Beacon, July 4, 1852; Timozy E. Howard, A History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1907), I, 223–231.
                  
                     5 Nellie A. Robertson and Dorothy Riker (eds.), The John
                                Tipton Papers (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1942), II, 487–488. These volumes are XXIV-XXVI of the
                            Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916).
               
                     Road was evidently not too easily traveled in its early years.
            The construction and use of the "Fair Play" was a significant effort to give 
                        South Bend
                     direct access to the Great Lakes system. Northern Indiana could not use the 
                        Ohio
                    -
                        Mississippi
                     water routes and, therefore, was dependent on the 
                        New York
                     outlet to the east.6 This also may be the explanation for
                    Taylor's dependence on 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Detroit
                     rather than on 
                  Philadelphia,
                            Pittsburgh
               , or 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            The first newspaper in 
                        South Bend
                     was the North-Western Pioneer, begun on November 16, 1831, and
                    followed on May 23, 1832, by the 
                  
                            St. Joseph
                         Beacon. The latter was published on the second floor of Calvin
                    Lilley's tavern in a building owned or controlled by E. Pitts Taylor, L. M.
                    Taylor's brother and clerk.7
            
            The atmosphere of the frontier was still present. The North-Western Pioneer has an
                    account of the murder of a Miami Indian by Josey, a Potawatomi, followed by the Miami ultimatum. The
                    Miami and their allies, the 
                        Ottawa
                     and Chippewa tribes, would wage a war of extermination unless given the whole
                    Potawatomi annuity for two years. The total demanded was fifty thousand dollars. There is also an
                    account of the drunken murder of Nanauquay, an Indian at Carey Mission, by Chief Topenebee.8
            
            The E. Pitts Taylor outfit as supplied with $377.40 in trade goods in the fall of 1831 and
                    credited with $423.04 in furs and other Indian trade goods in the spring. Pitts Taylor
                    was still a clerk for his brother, so it seems certain that L. M. Taylor was dealing directly with
                    the Indians through his own outfits. Two other outfits were sent out, the Griggs and the Monease
                    (Monis) outfits. The latter as stocked with $310.59 of goods and returned with
                    $110:50 of Indian products.9 There was no invoice of goods returned
                    to Taylor, so the remainder was probably sold to the Indians on credit.
            The only fur sales shown for the spring of 1832 are the following to the American Fur Company:10
            
            
               
                  6 Atherton, The Pioneer Merchant in Mid-America,
                        49–58.
               
                  7
                        
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana, North-Western Pioneer, November 16, 1831 April 18, 25,
                        May 2, 1832.
               
                  8
                        Ibid., December 14, 28, 1831; 
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana, 
                     
                                St. Joseph
                             Beacon, June 13, 28, and July 4, 1832.
               
                  9 S. Hanna and Company Invoice Book, 178–181,
                        182–188.
               
                  10
                        Ibid., 188.
            
            
            
               
                  179
                  Raccoon skins
                  53.70
               
               
                  14
                  Gray Fox
                  4.20
               
               
                  3
                  wild Cat
                  .75
               
               
                  4
                  Wolf
                  1.00
               
               
                  12
                  Deer
                  7.50
               
               
                  1
                  Otter (prime)
                  6.00
               
               
                  4
                  Fisher
                  4.00
               
               
                  1
                  Otter (unprime)
                  2.50
               
               
                  522
                  Muskrat
                  120.06
               
               
                  13
                  Mink
                  3.25
               
               
                  
                  
                  202.96
               
            
            A few more furs were sold to the same company to make a total of $249.22. A note was added
                    that "The American Fur Company bought $202.96 furs and promise to pay over and
                    above the itemized prices at highest 
                        Detroit
                     prices till June 1, 1833." This arrangement was profitable. It assured Taylor
                    a market and provided for price fluctuations in his favor. Communications were so slow that market
                    prices were not known for some time on the frontier. The fur market was seasonal since most of the
                    season's catch was brought in April and May. The prices could be altered quickly, but
                    Taylor was in a position to receive any changes which favored him by the terms of this contract.
            The inventory of June 1, 1832 showed:11
            
            
               
                  Invoice of Stocks
                  2117.81
               
               
                  Cash
                  740.00
               
               
                  White Accounts—Town
                  942.15
               
               
                  Indian Accounts
                  502.00
               
               
                  Notes
                  365.84
               
            
            This is not as complete as the inventory for 1830–1831. The chief differences are in a
                    larger stock of goods on hand, larger white accounts due, and a much smaller amount due from notes.
                    There is very little change in the amount owed by Indians. The 1830–1831 inventory showed
                    a larger credit account with Hanna. This inventory gives no information on the amount of goods sold
                    by the 
                        South Bend
                     store to any market. This inventory is positive evidence that Taylor attempted to
                    operate on a cash basis in his first year as a partner in the company.
            The question of location of the county seat had been settled by the fall of 1831, but the legality of
                    Taylor's claim 
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 67–74.
               
                     to his land was still pending. The seriousness with which this
                    affected Hanna and Taylor can be appreciated if one considers the seven letters written to Senator
                    Tipton by Samuel Hanna, Allen Hamilton, David H. Colerick, and James Barnett. It was a crucial year
                    in the community activities of the Company, because a failure to receive title to their tract of
                    land would permit Elisha B. Harris and his associates to receive the benefits of future sales, as
                    well as of the lots already sold. Taylor would lose the money already spent, much of the money he
                    had received for lot sales, and his dominance as a founder and donor to the town.
            The winter of 1832 also brought Taylor's confirmation of ownership of the disputed property
                    in the Gebo affair. The final terms, fifteen hundred dollars and four lots to Harris, John Bequette,
                    and Peter Gebo were harsh. Either Taylor's claims were not legally clear or the value
                    expected from the sale of town lots made a quick decision advisable. Clear titles to lots could now
                    be given to purchasers.
            The Black Hawk War was concluded in 1832, and 
                        South Bend
                     was the scene of a peculiar incident connected with the return of the troops. John D.
                    Defrees, publisher and editor of the St. Joseph Beacon had made an editorial
                    comment on the soldierly conduct of the Fortieth Regiment of the Indiana Militia, which did not see
                    action in the war. The regiment was returned through 
                        South Bend
                    , and part of it encountered Defrees in the streets. He was threatened, although the
                    accounts conflicted as to whether he was knocked down. He was released by South Bend men who were
                    attracted by the confusion. The militia group then proposed to wreck the newspaper presses. They
                    were met on the stairs to the second floor room by Captain Anthony Defrees and six or seven armed 
                        South Bend
                     citizens. John Defrees' uncle held the single approach for three or four hours
                    against the threat of the group of militia, which was later known as "the bloody
                    three-hundred." L. M. Taylor was one of four men who signed affidavits supporting
                    Defrees' account of the affair.12
            
            The Black Hawk hysteria gripped 
                        South Bend
                     in 1832 and when the first militia group, the Seventy-ninth Regiment, was organized,
                    Taylor was elected colonel, a title usually used in the future.13 His Regimental
                    Book, 1832–1838 is a most 
                  
                     12
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Beacon, July 11, 1832; Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                , Indiana, II, 712–715.
                  
                     13
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Beacon, July 26, 1832.
               
                     complete factual record of the militia activities of this area.
                    The Seventy-ninth Regiment of Indiana Militia did not take an active part in the campaign.
            The settlement of the Defrees brothers at 
                        Goshen
                     is the best authenticated example of Taylor's business practices. J. H. and J.
                    S. Defrees were interested in establishing a store in the new town of 
                        Goshen
                    . They wished to abandon the newspaper published in 
                        South Bend
                    . Taylor sold them the merchandise needed at a moderate twenty per cent markup but with
                    no down payment. This establishment of a competitor on such favorable terms is only partially
                    explained by the statement that he had more goods than he needed.14 It is quite
                    possible that the 
                        South Bend
                     acquaintanceship or the desire to further a neighboring town influenced the business
                    transaction for they had co-operated in 
                        South Bend
                    , and Taylor continued to sell to Defrees in later years.
            The position of postmaster of 
                        South Bend
                     caused Taylor some embarrassing moments. Though he was a Whig, as were most western
                        merchants,15 his commission was signed by Andrew Jackson, a Democrat. This
                    probably caused some party jealousy as is indicated by the fourth letter in his Letters and Orders
                    page 2, which reads as follows: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    South Bend
                                 , Indiana
                           
                                    August 4th, 1833.
                                
                        Hon. Sir
                        Yours of the 15th of July came to hand by the last mail in regard to the
                                    representations for an abuse of the franking privilege. I have to say that I have no
                                    recollection of sending any advertisement, exclusively for the benefit of Hanna and
                                    Taylor but have always avoided the abuse of such power. It is probable that when I
                                    was writing to some of my friends I might have enclosed an advertisement to save me
                                    the trouble of writing so much more. I can further assure you that you will not find
                                    any cause hereafter of the kind to alledge against me.
                        
                                    I have the honor to be in haste your most obtd. servt
                                    L. M. Taylor P.M.
                                
                         Mon. C. K. Gardner Asst. P. G. Southern Division P.O.D. Washington, D. C.
                                
                     
                  
                The plea was successful and the position retained until he 
                  
                     14 Taylor, Letters and Orders, 3, 6; "A Thirty-Onester, 
                                South Bend
                             and Portage Township-Reminiscences of Their First Years History," in
                            the 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Daily Register, April 14, 1876.
                  
                     15 Atherton, The Pioneer Merchant, 24.
               
                     was removed by Martin Van Buren in 1837 when the question of
                    party patronage caused his dismissal.16
            
            Peter Johnson, Colonel Taylor's father-in-law, had built the keelboat, "Fair
                    Play," in 1831, and later built three more boats, but the first conclusive evidence that
                    the St. Joseph River route was used by Taylor is in the following letter.17
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    South Bend
                                 , Indiana
                           
                                    July 17, 1833.
                                
                        Dear Sir,
                        If you will be good enough to forward to us the following articles we will settle
                                    with you for them on your order to wit
                        
                           2 conductor heads worth C/ ea.
                           36 feet of conductor pipe 2" in 9 cts 2 conductor shoez 1/6
                           2 Cornish pipez 1/6
                           3 nestz of tin kettles with covers lo$ ea 200 lb good quality
                                        soap—
                        
                        The above is taken from a bill of ware you sold Mer. Comparat and Coquillard which
                                    quality will suit us—be good enough to forward them up the first
                                    opportunity to the care of Brittain and Phelen Mouth of the 
                                        St. Joseph
                                    , M.T.
                        
                                    Very Respectfully yourz
                                    Hanna and Taylor South Bend, Indiana July 19, 1835.
                                
                        Mr. A. M. Hard Merchant Detroit, M.T.
                     
                  
               
                
            The Potawatomi Indian treaties of October, 1832, are most significant to this study. The treaty of
                    October 27, 1832, at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     concerned Taylor's business, and he recorded his financial interest. The three 
                        Tippecanoe
                     treaties were the last general treaties made with the Indians of Indiana. Four treaties
                    were made in 1834, nine in 1836, and one in 1837, but all were with individual bands.18 The movement in Indiana for internal improvements had progressed so far by 1832 that a
                    concerted effort was made for a final disposition of the Indian problem. The claims of the Indian
                    traders were presented for settlement at the negotiations and were made a part of the treaty terms.
                    The payments 
                  
                     16
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Tribune, August 29, 1892.
                  
                     17 Taylor, Letters and Orders, 1. This is the first letter in
                            Taylor's Letters and Orders, 1833–1841. Taylor made copies of his
                            letters during this period, but several pages have been cut out, usually of important
                            periods. There are no letters dealing with his partnership arrangements.
                  
                     18
                     Correspondence on the Subject of the Emmigration of
                                Indians, in Senate Documents, 23 Cong., 1 Sess., No. 512 (5
                            vols., serial nos. 244, 245, 246, 247, 248), see V.
               
                     to the Indians were made part cash, part annuities, and part in
                    merchandise. Taylor attended the treaty meetings with his book of accounts and a stock of
                    merchandise to sell to the commissioners for the Indians.
            Hanna & Taylor. Invoise of Goodz taken to the Potawatomie Treaty 1832
            
               
                  Case 1
                  11 Roram Hats
                  
                  26/
                  35
                  75
               
               
                  -
                  1 do do
                  
                  
                  2
                  00
               
               
                  No 2
                  12 do do
                  
                  24/
                  36
                  00
               
               
                  3
                  8 Castor do
                  
                  7.00
                  56
                  00
               
               
                  -
                  11 Roram do
                  
                  4.00
                  44
                  00
               
               
                  Box 4
                  22 ps Merrimace Prints
                  572.
                  1/6
                  107
                  25
               
               
                  B
                  2 " Blue
                  62 1/2
                  1/6
                  11
                  75
               
               
                  B
                  4 " do do
                  112
                  14
                  15
                  68
               
               
                  1
                  1 ps fanncy Prints
                  28 yds
                  22
                  6
                  16
               
               
                  2
                  1 - Black do
                  28 -
                  21
                  5
                  88
               
               
                  3
                  1 - Green do
                  28 -
                  2/6
                  8
                  75
               
               
                  4
                  1 - Red strip do
                  28
                  21
                  5
                  88
               
               
                  5
                  1 - Light Red do
                  30
                  15
                  4
                  50
               
               
                  6
                  6 - Dark Ground do
                  106
                  1/6
                  19
                  88
               
               
                  7
                  3 - Red Callico
                  91 1/2
                  22
                  20
                  13
               
               
                  8
                  3 - Light Blue
                  84
                  23
                  19
                  32
               
               
                  9
                  2 - dark ground
                  56
                  19
                  10
                  64
               
               
                  10
                  2 - light do
                  58 1/4
                  15
                  8
                  74
               
               
                  11
                  2 - dark do
                  56
                  16
                  9
                  96
               
               
                  12
                  1 - Do do
                  28 1/4
                  1/
                  3
                  54
               
               
                  13
                  2 - Plate Blue do
                  56
                  1/
                  7
                  00
               
               
                  14
                  1 - Black Spoted
                  21 1/2
                  2/
                  5
                  37
               
               
                  15
                  1 - Stripe Cotton 5/4
                  41 1/4
                  23
                  5
                  49
               
               
                  16
                  1 - Stripe do 4
                  42 1/4
                  22
                  9
                  30
               
               
                  17
                  2 - do do 3/4
                  99 1/2
                  34
                  13
                  93
               
               
                  18
                  1 - do do
                  42 1/2
                  1/
                  5
                  38
               
               
                  20
                  1 - Check 4
                  43
                  16
                  6
                  88
               
               
                  21
                  3 - do 4
                  112
                  15
                  16
                  80
               
               
                  22
                  1 - do 40 in
                  42 1/4
                  1/6
                  8
                  00
               
               
                  23
                  2 - do 40 in
                  73–3/4
                  1/6
                  15
                  00
               
               
                  24
                  1 - do 4/4
                  37
                  15
                  5
                  55
               
               
                  25
                  3 - do 3/4
                  109
                  1/
                  13
                  63
               
               
                  26
                  2 - Small Plad
                  70
                  13
                  9
                  10
               
               
                  27
                  2 - do do
                  72
                  1
                  9
                  00
               
               
                  28
                  2 - Large do
                  77 1/2
                  13
                  10
                  05
               
               
                  29
                  1 - do do 7/8
                  36 1/2
                  14
                  5
                  08
               
               
                  30
                  1 - do do
                  55
                  10
                  5
                  50
               
               
                  31
                  3 - Bleached Shirting
                  85
                  9
                  7
                  65
               
               
                  32
                  1 - do do
                  29
                  15
                  4
                  35
               
               
                  33
                  1 - do do
                  31–3/4
                  20
                  6
                  36
               
               
                  34
                  1 - Turkey Red Shawls
                  30
                  3/
                  11
                  25
               
               
                  35
                  1 - do do do
                  18
                  28
                  5
                  04
               
               
                  36
                  1 ps. Turky Red Shawls 4/4
                  16
                  44
                  7
                  04
               
               
               
                  37
                  1 - do do do
                  9
                  44
                  3
                  96
               
               
                  38
                  1 - do do do
                  13
                  28
                  3
                  66
               
               
                  39
                  1 3/4 doz Blue Handexhiefz
                  
                  15/
                  2
                  35
               
               
                  40
                  do Cross barred
                  
                  18/
                  2
                  25
               
               
                  41
                  8/12 do do do
                  
                  4.50
                  3
                  00
               
               
                  42
                  1 ps. Yellow Silk Bandana
                  
                  
                  4
                  50
               
               
                  43
                  1 - Light green Shawl 4/
                  18
                  20
                  5
                  60
               
               
                  44
                  1 - do - do 4.
                  43
                  2/6
                  13
                  44
               
               
                  45
                  1 - Red & Green do 10/4
                  8
                  9/
                  9
                  00
               
               
                  (2 Bo) 46
                  2 Boxes 38 ps. Taffeta Ribbon
                  
                  68/
                  38
                  00
               
               
                  -
                  2 ps Taffeta Ribbon No 4
                  
                  6/
                  1
                  50
               
               
                  -
                  6 - do do No 2
                  
                  4/
                  3
                  00
               
               
                  
                  3 ps Gartering
                  
                  8/
                  3
                  00
               
               
                  
                  1 ps Ticking 6/4 34 1/2 yds
                  
                  3/
                  13
                  00
               
               
                  
                  1 - Ditto 7/8 30–
                  
                  2/
                  7
                  50
               
               
                  
                  1 1/2 doz Looking Glassez
                  
                  6/
                  1
                  12
               
               
                  1
                  4 Dressing do
                  
                  3/
                  1
                  50
               
               
                  2
                  2 do do
                  
                  1/6
                  
                  37 1/2
               
               
                  
                  12 pr. Calf Shoes
                  
                  10/
                  15
                  00
               
               
                  
                  6 - do do
                  
                  10/
                  7
                  50
               
               
                  
                  1 - Green Bake 55
                  
                  42
                  23
                  10
               
               
                  
                  1 ps Tartom Plaid 60
                  
                  2/
                  15
                  00
               
               
                  
                  1 - White Flannel 46
                  
                  3/
                  17
                  25
               
               
                  
                  1 - Cotton Thread
                  
                  8/
                  1
                  00
               
               
                  
                  1 - Cotton Balls
                  
                  
                  1
                  00
               
               
                  47
                  1 ps Shawls 4/4 18s
                  
                  22
                  3
                  96
               
               
                  48
                  1 - do 5/4 12
                  
                  5/
                  7
                  50
               
               
                  49
                  1 - Red do 1 10/4 8
                  
                  8/
                  8
                  00
               
               
                  50
                  1 - do do 10/4 8
                  
                  8/
                  8
                  00
               
               
                  51
                  1 - Light Shawls 8/4 15
                  
                  6/
                  11
                  25
               
               
                  52
                  1 - Red do 8/4 4
                  
                  6/
                  3
                  00
               
               
                  53
                  6 Prussian Chintz Shawls
                  
                  7/
                  5
                  25
               
               
                  
                  3 Silk Vests
                  
                  20/
                  7
                  50
               
               
                  
                  4 Velvet Vests
                  
                  5/
                  2
                  50
               
               
                  
                  8 Vest patterns
                  
                  3/
                  3
                  00
               
               
                  
                  1 Striped Coat
                  
                  
                  2
                  50
               
               
                  
                  5 Ostridge Feathers
                  
                  4/
                  2
                  50
               
               
                  
                  1/2 Silk Stocks
                  
                  7.00
                  3
                  50
               
               
                  
                  1/2 Bristle do
                  
                  7.00
                  3
                  50
               
               
                  
                  1 1/2 doz. fancy stocks
                  
                  2/
                  4
                  50
               
               
                  
                  6 Black Italian
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Cravats
                  
                  11/
                  8
                  25
               
               
                  
                  6 Leather capz
                  
                  5/
                  3
                  75
               
               
                  
                  6 Hair seal skin caps
                  
                  7/
                  5
                  25
               
               
                  No 1
                  1 ps Steel mixed cloth
                  23 1/4
                  20/
                  58
                  17
               
               
                  2
                  1 - Black Cloth
                  29 1/2
                  28/
                  103
                  25
               
               
                  3
                  1 - Yellow List Blue cloth
                  20
                  22/
                  55
                  00
               
               
                  4
                  1 - do do do do
                  14
                  22/
                  38
                  50
               
               
                  5
                  1 - do do do do
                  12
                  20/
                  30
                  00
               
               
                  6
                  1 - Gray list do do
                  2/
                  13/
                  54
                  23
               
               
               
                  7
                  1 - do do do do
                  12
                  13/
                  19
                  56
               
               
                  8
                  1 - Yellow do do do
                  12 1/2
                  24/
                  37
                  50
               
               
                  9
                  1 - Sav - list do do
                  21–
                  12/
                  19
                  56
               
               
                  10
                  1 - do do do do
                  10 1/2
                  12/
                  15
                  75
               
               
                  11
                  1 - do do do do
                  17 1/2
                  12/
                  26
                  25
               
               
                  12
                  1 - Strouding 9
                  yds
                  10/
                  11
                  25
               
               
                  
                  10 - Bro Sheeting 30 1/4
                  
                  10 1/2
                  31
                  92
               
               
                  
                  12 - do shirting 378
                  
                  8
                  30
                  04
               
               
                  1 Bale
                  1/2 pr 3 pt MaCanac Blankets
                  
                  
                  3
                  37
               
               
                  
                  3–2 1/2 do do do
                  
                  5.25
                  25
                  25
               
               
                  
                  1/2 - 2 do do do
                  
                  4.25
                  2
                  25
               
               
                  
                  8–1 1/2 do do do
                  
                  3.25
                  26
                  00
               
               
                  
                  1–1 1/2 do do do
                  
                  
                  3
                  25
               
               
                  
                  5 - 1 pt do do do
                  
                  2.75
                  13
                  75
               
               
                  
                  3 - Blue 3 1/2 pt do do
                  
                  10.00
                  30
                  00
               
               
                  (54)
                  4 1/2 - do 3 do do do
                  
                  8.25
                  37
                  12
               
               
                  2 Boxes
                  17 Cast steel Axez, small
                  
                  12/
                  25
                  50
               
               
                  
                  2 Doz. Tomahawks
                  
                  9$
                  18
                  00
               
               
                  
                  3 4/12 do Horse Bells
                  
                  4.50
                  15
                  00
               
               
                  
                  1 do Skalping Knives
                  
                  
                  2
                  00
               
               
                  
                  1 do Scissors
                  
                  
                  2
                  00
               
               
                  
                  550 Needles (in Box with Br.)
                  
                  2.50
                  1
                  25
               
               
                  
                  2000 pr. Ear Bobbz
                  
                  8
                  160
                  00
               
               
                  
                  2 pr armbands
                  
                  3.50
                  7
                  00
               
               
                  
                  1 Georget
                  
                  
                  1
                  50
               
               
                  
                  2 pr. Indian —
                  
                  20/
                  5
                  00
               
               
                  No 1
                  45 Broaches
                  
                  9/
                  50
                  63
               
               
                  2
                  63 do
                  
                  8/
                  62
                  00
               
               
                  3
                  17 do
                  
                  6/
                  12
                  75
               
               
                  3
                  82 do
                  
                  7/
                  71
                  76
               
               
                  4
                  89 do
                  
                  4/6
                  50
                  00
               
               
                  No 5
                  22 Broaches
                  
                  4/6
                  12
                  38
               
               
                  6
                  16 ditto
                  
                  4/6
                  9
                  00
               
               
                  7
                  22 ditto
                  
                  2/
                  5
                  50
               
               
                  9
                  138 do
                  
                  1/
                  17
                  25
               
               
                  10
                  16 do with others
                  
                  /6
                  1
                  00
               
               
                  11
                  2 Broaches 10/ 1 at 4/
                  
                  
                  3
                  00
               
               
                  8
                  2 do (with above
                  
                  1/
                  25
               
               
                  
                  2 pr Earwheels
                  
                  4/
                  1
                  00
               
               
                  55
                  1 Box Beads
                  
                  
                  4
                  00
               
               
                  
                  4 Doz Combs (—)
                  
                  
                            4/
                        
                  2
                  00
               
               
                  
                  2 Hat Bands, in above
                  
                  2/
                  
                  50
               
               
                  
                  2 pr Rose Blanketts
                  
                  4–
                  8
                  00
               
               
                  
                  1 pr Pistols
                  
                  
                  4
                  00
               
               
                  
                  1/2 Manilla Cards
                  
                  
                  1
                  50
               
               
                  1 Bale of Blankets that
                  Amount
                  
                  
                  $2010
                  93
               
               
                  No. of Blaikets not known
                  Pr 3 pt Blankets- 2 1/2 pt do
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
            
            
            
                    Sold to Commissioners Oct. 27 1832 at Camp Tippacanoe Indiana
                
            Taylor's record shows that he received payment of $944.09 from the Indian
                    accounts in the treaty book, and $241.04 for Indian accounts in Ledger B of Hanna and
                        Taylor.19 The official record of the Senate Documents, however, shows that
                    he was allowed $2,280 for Indian accounts at the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Treaty of October 27, 1832. The most interesting feature is a comparison of
                    Taylor's invoice of goods with that accepted from him by the commissioners.
                    Taylor's invoice shows the amount sold to the commissioners was $2,010.93. The
                    official record shows a payment of three thousand dollars to him.20
            
            Additional evidence is supplied by a comparison of Taylor's prices with the prices allegedly
                    paid him. To cite only one article: Taylor sold five "ostridge" feathers at four
                    shillings each, total price two dollars and fifty cents. The report to the War Department
                    "bought five ostrich feathers from L. M. Taylor at eight shillings each; total price five
                    dollars." That equals a difference of one hundred per cent. A further study will show
                    discrepencies of varying degree, but a total of about one-third price increase.
            There is a still greater discrepency when the invoices are checked against each other. We find that
                    the commissioners' invoice did not include many articles that were on Taylor's
                    list. At least $303.70 worth of merchandise was omitted from the commissioners'
                    list. The United States paid to the commissioners nearly one hundred per cent more than Taylor
                    received for the goods actually delivered to the Indians.21
            
            The Indian Commissioners who conducted the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     treaties of 1832 were Jonathan Jennings, John W. Davis, and Marks Crume, who approved
                    Taylor's Indian accounts and bill of merchandise.22 The preliminary
                    approval of the invoice of goods was made by a commission appointed by the 
                  
                     19 Hanna and Taylor, Indian Accounts taken to 
                                Tippecanoe
                             and 
                                Chicago
                             Treaties, 1932, p. 46.
                  
                     20
                            Correspondence on the Subject of the Emmigration of Indians, in Senate Documants, 23 Cong., 1 Sess., No. 512, V, 339, 340.
                  
                     21
                     Ibid., 459–462.
                  
                     22
                     Ibid., 339, 461–462.
               
                     above three men. The sub-committee was composed of Allen
                    Hamilton, R. N. Forsyth, and A. E. Van Ness. Many subcommittees of traders were appointed to pass on
                    the goods of their competitors. Samuel Hanna was present at the treaty and his name appears
                    twenty-five times on sub-committees for the commissioners. Taylor did not serve on any appraising
                    committees. Hanna was the senior partner of Hanna and Taylor, and it seems quite unlikely that
                    Taylor would have falsified the company's books in Hanna's presence.
            This evidence points to collusion and fraud by the commissioners or traders. The order for payment
                    was made out to Taylor if the formal certification was followed. The commissioners' invoice
                    was a fairly exact copy of Taylor's so they were aware of his prices. One can be sure his
                    original invoice represents a generous markup over its wholesale cost, and that $2,010.93
                    represented a good profit. In July, 1832, Taylor purchased twenty-four roram hats from Spafford and
                    Tellison for forty dollars, which cost the Indians five dollars a piece.23 If
                    Taylor received a payment of $3,000.49, he knew that it represented a sale not supported
                    by his books. If the money was paid directly to the commissioners and then to Taylor, the fraud
                    would involve others. The evidence certainly points to fraud against the federal government, but the
                    evidence is not conclusive enough to identify the offenders. If one-third to one-half of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     settlement money went to the white men concerned, rather than to the Indians, there was
                    a very large sum taken fraudulently from the United States Treasury to enrich the traders of
                    northern Indiana. The following amounts were awarded the Indians and were to pass through the hands
                    of the commissioners.
            
               
                  
                     
                                Tippecanoe
                             Treaty Settlement Terms24
                  
               
               
                  Merchandise to be Supplied immediately
                  Merchandise to be Supplied at 
                                Chicago
                            , 1833
               
               
                  October 20, 1832
                  $45,000.00
                  $30,000.00
                  
               
               
                  October 26, 1832
                  $100,000.00
                  $30,000.00
                  by Eel River Agent at Notawasippi
               
               
                  October 27, 1832
                  $32,000.00
                  $10,000.00
                  
               
            
            This does not include terms regarding annuities or settlement of debts. The same three men were
                    commissioners for all three treaties.
            
               
                  23 Taylor, Invoice Book, 88.
               
                  24 Charles J. Kappler (comp. and ed.), Indian Affairs, Laws
                            and Treaties, in Senate Documents, 67 Cong., 1 Sess., No. 452 (2
                        vols., serial nos. 4253 and 4254), II, 256–258, 268–270,
                        272–274.
            
            
            
               Table IV Value of Wholesale Purchasing Made for 
                            New York
                         For L. M. Taylor - Retail Store from Taylor, Merchandise Bought,
                        1833–36.
               
                  
                  1828
                  1831
                  1832
                  1833
                  1834
                  1835
               
               
                  
                  $788.61
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Suydam & Jackson
                  
                  $1464.02
                  $2106.08
                  $2013.83
                  $1984.66
                  $4328.51
               
               
                  Suydam and Sage
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  1666.94
                  3550.05
               
               
                  Boyd, Phelps & Co.
                  
                  99.43
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Seaman and Van Wyck
                  
                  318.33
                  170.59
                  1109.69
                  641.73
                  
               
               
                  Hyslop and Son
                  
                  195.21
                  1071.98
                  655.57
                  967.27
                  1571.87
               
               
                  Spafford, Tatum and Co.
                  
                  224.23
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Boyd, Suydam & Co.
                  
                  274.20
                  761.77
                  1257.11
                  
                  
               
               
                  Townahend, Harris
                  
                  $2575.42
                  130.05
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Zinn and Skinner
                  
                  
                  12.19
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Suydam and York
                  
                  
                  437.55
                  676.88
                  960.40
                  1559.33
               
               
                  Tappan and Co.
                  
                  
                  74.50
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Levi Cook and Co.
                  
                  
                  33.88
                  
                  
                  202.92
               
               
                  Varnum, Fuller
                  
                  
                  $4798.59
                  867.86
                  863.16
                  842.42
               
               
                  Gideon Frost
                  
                  
                  
                  465.76
                  
                  2278.89
               
               
                  Bailey, Keeler, Remgen
                  
                  
                  
                  306.74
                  307.17
                  848.32
               
               
                  J. Mayhew and Co.
                  
                  
                  
                  247.59
                  
                  
               
               
                  Spafford, Tilliston
                  
                  
                  
                  910.60
                  228.99
                  923.34
               
               
                  N. and I. White
                  
                  
                  
                  $8511.63
                  $7620.32
                  290.50
               
               
                  Underhill, Seymour
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  162.69
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  $16558.84
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  Took $13,000 insurance on merchandise shipped.
               
            
            
            The inventory of July 8, 1833, shows two noteworthy features. Colonel Taylor's accounts or
                    credit extension had grown much larger, and his store was receiving a share of the local civic
                    orders. Taylor had either extended much more liberal credit to the Indians than formerly, expecting
                    to collect them at the 
                        Chicago
                     settlements of 1833, or the new town of 
                        South Bend
                     was composed of white settlers in need of credit. Most of the town lots were sold with
                    small down payments and notes were taken for the balance.
            
               
                  Invoice
                  
                  July 8, 1833
                  
               
               
                  from Invoice Book,
                  1828–1833
                  
                  
               
               
                  S. Hanna and Company.
                  
                  
               
               
                  Stocks
                  $1,316.64
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                     1/4 Sec. Hand
                  250.00
                  
                  
               
               
                  Acc'ts
                  3,476.44
                  
                  
               
               
                  Notes White and Indian
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  
               
               
                  
                  2,165.97
                  includes
                  $950.00
               
               
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  County orders.
               
               
                  
                  
                  South Bend Orders
                  885.62
               
            
            The wholesale supply base of S. Hanna and Company was 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Hanna and Taylor Company was more concerned with direct independent purchasing from
                    wholesalers. One sees this developing dependence on the eastern wholesale supply houses in table IV.
                    He increased the number of firms from whom he bought goods, and his volume of purchases doubled in
                    three of the four years from 1831 to 1835.
            
               Table V Merchandise Lines Purchased From Wholesale Houses For Retail By L. M. Taylor New York from Taylor, Merchandise Bought, 1833–36.
               
                  Textiles
               
               
                  Varnum, Fuller & Co.
               
               
                  Bailey, Keeler & Remsen
               
               
                  Gideon Frost & Co.
               
               
                  N. & I. White
               
               
                  Seaman, Van Wyck
               
               
                  Suydam, Jackson & Co.
               
               
                  Suydam & York
               
               
                  Hardware—Cutlery—China
               
               
                  Robert Hyslop & Son
               
               
                  Townshend, Harris
               
               
                  Underhill and Seymore
               
               
               
                  Leather Goods
               
               
                  Van Nostrund, Hoople & Co.
               
               
                  Spofford & Tilliston
                            Groceries—Spirits—Fruits—Tobacco
               
               
                  Suydam, Sage & Co.
               
               
                  Underhill & Layman Sewing Supplies—Trinkets
               
               
                  Levi Cook & Co.
               
               
                  
                            
                                Detroit
                            
                        
               
               
                  Cutlery
               
               
                  G. W. Keeny Groceries
               
               
                  E. Jones & Co.
               
            
            He was expanding his merchandise volume rapidly, and table V shows that he was securing a very
                    general line of goods. He was becoming more closely bound to the economic life of the eastern coast
                    and less closely tied to the other middle western cities.
            There were two complicated real estate matters which demanded considerable attention at this time.
                    The cases involved land secured by Taylor from Chief Topenebee and Wymego, who was William Burnett.
            Taylor wrote to Cyrus Taber at 
                        Logansport
                     on September 7, 1833, that "Old Baker" (Martin Baker) had influenced
                    Topenebee to give Baker a claim on a quarter section of land in LaPorte County. Topenebee had sold
                    the same land, the southwest quarter of section thirty-three, township thirty-eight, of range one
                    west, to Taylor in the spring of 1833. Baker's action could delay the President's
                    approval of the deeds. Taylor included affidavits of Topenebee and others that Taylor's
                    claim was the prior one. Taber was requested to see the Indian agent at 
                        Logansport
                     and clear the claim.25
            
            This letter to Taber was followed by another concerning the same deed, and one for land bought from
                    Wymego. It expresses an interesting view of Indian Bureau methods, and the dependence of Taylor upon
                    the courtesy of Edward A. Hannegan. Taylor suspected the Bureau of dilatory tactics which would
                    respond only to pressure, and the circumstances made him rely on Hannegan's acceptance of
                    the commission.
            
               
                  25. Taylor, Letters and Orders, 6–8. General Marshall was the
                        Indian agent. Taber was usually allied with Hanna and other men who sometimes opposed the Ewings
                        of 
                            Fort Wayne
                         and General Tipton and was Taylor's most important ally in bringing
                        influence to bear on the agency.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    South Bend
                                 , Ind.
                           
                                    Oct. 30th 1833
                                
                        Hon Sir
                        I have two deedz, from two-half blooded Indiana of some of the children that lived at
                                    Carey Mission lying I believe in the General Land Office, which was sent there by
                                    General Marshall the Indian Agent at 
                                        Logansport
                                     some time last summer. And as deedz of the kind here to fore sent to
                                    the Department for the Presidents approval, have been neglected by the Commissioner
                                    of the Land Office and some of them detained two or three years. I have to request
                                    of you the favor if it does not intifere with your other duties to call on the
                                    Commissioner of the Land Office and make such enquiry after the deeds, and if
                                    approved where they are and if not approved request the Commissioner to lay them
                                    before the President for approval as soon as practicable & have them sent to
                                    me. I saw General Marshall not long since and he says he recommended the deeds to be
                                    approved by the President of the U. S.26
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Topenebee's indenture is added as an oddity with which one has little experience today. Such
                    legal documents were once a vital economic force on the frontier. The deed conferring
                    Taylor's claim was filed October 6, 1834.
            
                    THIS INDENTURE, made this fourth day of June in the year of
                        Our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three between Topenibc a Potawatomie
                            Indian of 
                                St. Joseph County
                             Indiana of the one part, and Lathrop M. Taylor of the County
                            of 
                                St. Joseph
                             and State of Indiana of the other part, WITNESSETH, that the said Topenibe for and in Consideration of the Sum of Two hundred
                            dollars Lawful Money of the United States, to him in hand well and
                        truly paid by the said Lathrop M. Taylor the Receipt whereof is hereby
                        acknowledged has Granted, Bargained, Sold, Conveyed and Confirmed; and by these Presents do
                        Grant, Bargain, Sell, Convey, and Confirm, unto the said Lathrop M. Taylor and to
                            his Heirs and Assigns forever, all of the South West quarter of Section
                            Thirtg three in Township thirty eighth of Range one west of the 2nd principal Merddwn of the
                            State of Indiana. In the district of Lands subject to sak at T Crawfordsville Indiana,
                            containing one hundred and sixty Acres of ground. It being a certain quarter section of Land
                            reserved to the said Topenibe in and by the Treaty entered into on the Waubash river on the
                            sixteenth dug of October in the year 1826 between Lewis Cass James B. Ray and John Tipton
                            Commissioners on the part of the United States and the Chiefs and Warriors of Potawatamie
                            Tribe of Indians Reference being had to the said Treaty and the ratification thereof will
                            more fully appear
               
                    And all the Estate, Right, Title, Claim and demand of the said Topenibe of, in
                        and to the said Premises hereby Bargained and Sold and every part thereof, with all and singular
                        the rights, members, privileges, and appurtenances to the same belonging, or in any wise
                        appurtaining; and the rents, issues and profits thereof, To have and to Hold the Premises
                        aforesaid, hereby bargained and sold, or meant 
                     
                        26 Taylor, Letters and Orders, 11.
                  
                         or intended so to be with the appurtenances, to the only
                        proper use and behoof of the said Lathrop M. Taylor and to his Heirs and
                        Assigns forever; and the said Topenibe for himself &
                        his Heirs, Executors, Administrators, doth Covenant, Grant and agree to and with the said
                            Lathrop M. Taylor and his Heirs, Executors, Administrators and Assigns,
                        that he is the true and lawful owner of the Premises hereby granted, and has
                        good right, full power, and lawful authority, to sell and convey the same in manner and form
                        aforesaid: And further, that he the said Topenibe and his
                        Heirs Executors, and Administrators, will Warrant and forever Defend the aforesaid Premises,
                        with, their appurtenances, and every part or parcel thereof, unto the said Lathrop
                            M. Taylor and his Heirs, and Assigns, against all persons claiming or to claim, from or
                        under him them, or any of them; or by, from, or any other person or persons
                        whomsoever.
                    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the said Topenibe has hereunto set his
                        hand and affixed his seal the day and year first above written.
                    Sealed and delivered in the presence of his Sealed
                    
                  To-peni-be X
                    
                  Mark L.S.
                    John D. Lasly L. F. Arnold
                    State of Indiana, Before me, the undersigned,
                    County, SS. written and for said County personally came above grantor and being examined,
                        agreeably to the act in such case made and provided, acknowledged the above Indenture to he
                        voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes mentioned. In testimony whereof, I have
                        hereunto set my hand and seal, this day of 183
                    State of Indiana
                    SS
                    
                  
                            St. Joseph County
                         Before me the undersigned an acting Justice of the peace within and for said County
                        personally came Topenibee the grantor named in the within deed of conveyance and acknowledged
                        the signing and sealing of the same as his free act and deed for the uses and purposes there in
                        expressed and the contents of said deed having been by me fully explained and made known to him
                        he stated that the sum of two hundred dollars had been satisfactorily paid to him and that he
                        was satified and content there with, and that he has made the conveyance without any persuasion
                        from the grantee or any other person or persons whomsoever, and that he the said Topenibe
                        respectfully requests that the President of the United States will approve of this conveyance.
                        And I do hereby further certify that the consideration paid for the within Tract of Land is a
                        fair price for the same, and that the grantor is capable of managing is on conserns [his own
                        concerns?] and of knowing the value of property and to preserve it for the ordinary purposes of
                        life. In Testimony whereof I have  hereunto set my hand and
                        seal at 
                            South Bend
                         this Fourth day of June 1833
                    L. F. Arnold Seal Justice of the peace
                    State of Indiana
                    SS
                    
                        
                            St. Joseph County
                        
                    
                    I L. M. Taylor clerk of the St. Joseph Circuit court do hereby certify that L. F. Arnold whose
                        hand and seal is affixed to the above certificate of acknowledgement is and was at the time of
                        signing and sealing of the same an acting Justice of the peace of said County duly commissioned
                        and qualified and has full faith and credit is due and ever ought to be given to all his
                        official acts as such In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of
                        said Circuit Court at 
                            South Bend
                         in said County this 8th day of June 1833
                    L. M. Taylor Clerk
                    Approved April 10th 1834 Andrew Jackson
                    I certify that the sum of two hundred dollars mentioned in the within deed has been paid in money
                        to the grantor and is a full and fair price for the land mentioned in said Deed and that the
                        grantor is capable of taking care of and managing his property and respectfully recommend the
                        approval of the within Deed
                    William Marshall Indian Agent
                    Filed for Record this 6th day of October A.D. 1834 G. Thomas R.L.C.
                    Recorded Vol 2 pages 74, 75, 76, 77, & 78 of Indian
                        Conveyances—General Land Office
                    To Penibe
                    To Deed
                    L. M. Taylor
                    Recorded in the record of Deeds for Laporte County Indiana in Book A Pages 204 & 205 on
                        the 6th day of October A.D. 1834
                    Fee 1.00 paid
                    George Thomas Recorder
                    L.C.
                    India 41
                    To Penibe
                    To Deed
                    L. M. Taylor
                    No. 323
                
            The case of ‘Clrymego (William Burnett) involved Taylor with General Tipton. The Burnett
                    family was composed of William, his wife, Kakima (Kawkeeme), a sister of Topene-bee, and their seven
                    children. John, James, Abraham, Rebecca, and Nancy each were given two sections of land by the
                    treaty of 1821 at 
                        Chicago
                    , including six sections in 
                        St. Joseph County
                    . Samuel Hanna probably with General Jacob Walker 
                    was the guardian of one child, Abraham Burnett.27 Taylor acted as agent for
                    Hanna, and this developed a certain amount of conflict with General Tipton. The circumstances are
                    not too apparent from the Letters and Orders.
            One of William's sons, James Burnett, wrote a letter to 
                        Tipton
                     telling him that he was no longer wanted as James' agent, accusing him of
                    several breaches of trust and demanding the return of money which was still in 
                        Tipton
                    's possession. The letter was written from Carey Station, August 24, 1832.28 Jordan Vigus at 
                        Logansport
                     wrote to 
                        Tipton
                     on February 5, 1837: "As respects Mr. Taylor of 
                        South Bend
                     I can say that what he done was Just as he intended it, he has written to me several
                    times since and at last says that he has a Little Iron Box in his store that he
                        Calls the Bank and that the money is deposited
                        in it. You can see from this that he was disposed to trifle with us from the
                        start—These are his own words."
               29
            
            The tone of this letter indicates that Taylor and Tipton were at cross purposes, and the Burnett
                    estate or other Indian affairs were the most likely points of contact between the two men. James
                    Burnett's son was William, or Wymego, whose deed was one of those mentioned by Taylor in
                    his letter to Hannegan at 
                        Washington
                    . The title was eventually cleared, as Taylor records the payment of three hundred
                    dollars to Wymego for one hundred sixty acres of land.30
            
            The Treaty of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     in 1832 had provided for the payment of additional merchandise to the Potawatomi at 
                        Chicago
                     in 1833. Taylor wrote to Hanna on September 8, 1833, that he had already sent
                    twenty-eight hundred dollars worth of goods to the 
                        Chicago
                     settlement. The Sales Book invoices the goods at a total value of $2,805.38.
                    The Treaty Book of Accounts taken to 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     does not 
                  
                     27 Edward S. Kelley, "William Burnett, A Representative
                            Eighteenth Century American Trader, Pioneer and Home Builder," in 
                                Michigan
                             Pioneer Collections (40 vols., Lansing Michigan,
                            1874–1929), XXX (1905), 85–95; Kappler, Indian Affairs,
                                Laws and Treaties, II, 139, 268–270.
                  
                     28 James Burnett Notes. These notes include the original letter
                            written to General Tipton on August 24, 1832, which was not published in the John Tipton Papers. The letter is filed in the Northern Indiana Historical Museum, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     29 Robertson and Riker, John Tipton Papers, II,
                            360–361. Vigus was a confidential agent of 
                                Tipton
                             and a partner in some of 
                                Tipton
                            's business affairs.
                  
                     30 Taylor, Real Estate, 2. William Burnett the father of James was
                            known as Wymego. Taylor also referred to James Burnett's son William as
                        Wymego.
               
                     give satisfactory information on Taylor's work at 
                        Chicago
                    . The most reliable information is contained in a letter to Suydam and Jackson, 
                        New York
                     merchants, on December 22, 1833.31 Taylor sent two drafts, the
                    payment for his Indian claims which were allowed at 
                        Chicago
                    . These were to be applied to the credit of Hanna and Taylor, in agreement with
                    arrangements made with Jackson on his recent western trip. Taylor had been allowed $1,570
                    on Indian claims but had been "unfortunate" in the sale of his stock of Indian
                    goods. He promised payment of the remaining bill to Suydam and Jackson in the spring. It is possible
                    to check the amount of the 
                        Chicago
                     settlements in Hanna and Taylor Indian Accounts from Journal E, 1833–1839.
                    The individual accounts were each recorded when paid, September 27, 1833, or in October, 1834.
            The treaties and settlements were opportunities to do a year's business in a few weeks.
                    Taylor's records do not show that his Indian trade in any previous year equaled that
                    transacted at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     in 1832 or expected at 
                        Chicago
                     in 1833. Its serious affect upon his plans may be judged from his letter to Suydam and
                    Jackson in December as previously explained. The account books do not record the disposal of
                    sufficient furs and other products to balance the stocks purchased in the summer of 1833. There was
                    no record of an inventory taken in the spring of 1834.
            Taylor shipped $862.37 of furs to Brittain and Abbot of 
                        Detroit
                     on May 29, 1834.32 They included 617 deer skins, 647 muskrat, and
                    698 raccoon; these continued to be his staple furs. He continued to assist the Defrees brothers of 
                        Goshen
                     by supplying them with $1,110.61 in merchandise on August 26, 1834.33 The store must have disposed of most of its stock of goods during this year
                    since he returned from 
                        New York
                     in July, 1834, with enough to replace the stock of the previous year. A study of Table
                    V will show that this was the first year which Taylor did not make a large expansion of stock. The
                    following letter to Cyrus Taber mentioned the business conditions in 
                        New York
                    . This may account for Taylor's retrenchment rather than a disappointing
                    business in South
            
               
                  31 Taylor, Letters and Orders, 9, 13.
               
                  32 Taylor, Merchandise, 36–31.
               
                  33 Taylor, Sales Book, 1833–1835, p. 15.
            
            
            Bend. The letter is recorded in Taylor's Letters and Orders, pages 21 and 22.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    South Bend
                                 , Ind.
                           
                                    July 29 1834
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        I returned yesterday from the East in quit a feeble state of health I wase taken sick
                                    at 
                                        Detroit
                                     on my way home and confined to bed two weeks I had a vary severe spell
                                    of sickniss but I am now on a recrut and able to attend to business a little I am
                                    sorry to hear by the mail carrier that you have been sick for some time past I am in
                                    hopes to hear of your recovery soon I went to Washington City while I wase gone and
                                    called at the General Land Office to see about my deeds and found that two of them
                                    had been approved of by the President and one of them not there wase some objection
                                    to it which wase sent with the deed you will recolect that General Marshal told me
                                    he wold hand them to you as soon as thay arived and that you could send them out The
                                    gentalman at the Indian Bureau in the Land office the deeds had been sent in the
                                    same bundle of the deed of John Henricks and they came befor I left home for 
                                        New York
                                     I shall be very much plased if you can call or send to General Marshal
                                    office and get the deeds or what information you can of them and send them out to me
                                    by the return Mail It will save me of the trouble of going down—myself or
                                    sending I want all three of the deeds if you have any beter information what
                                    dispotian the President intendes to make with the Reservations of 1832 I shall be
                                    glad to heare what it is. Also what time do you think General Marshal will pay the
                                    Waubaush Potawatomies—there is three or four of the Yellow river boys
                                    owing me some I wold lik to slipp out and gett—it at that time There is a
                                    considerable reduction of funes from last years prices in 
                                        Detroit
                                     and 
                                        New York
                                     The Merchants of 
                                        N Y
                                     complain very much of hard times and they are very dificult about
                                    money. Tha shave the western people every way they can pleaz to let me hare from you
                                    as soon as conveniant. Yours
                        
                                    L. M. Taylor
                                
                        Mr C Tabour
                     
                  
               
                
            The Taber letter does not explain which deeds were involved. It gives a picture of the difficulties
                    encountered when securing land from the Indians. Taylor always appealed to influential friends in
                    such cases. The side trip to Washington, D.C., was an effort which kept him from his business for an
                    additional time and would only be taken for a vital matter-.34 This is the first
                    time he mentioned the illnesses which he contracted on several of his eastern trips.
            A letter to Smith and Macy in August, 1834, illustrates one of the risks taken by the pioneer
                    merchant. His goods had arrived at 
                        St. Joseph
                     considerably damaged on the lake 
                  
                     34 Atherton, The Pioneer Merchant, 5466.
               
                     trip. The damage was assessed by other merchants at
                    $668.29, but he had carried insurance of five thousand dollars on his goods.35
            
            Taylor wrote to General Marshall, Indian agent at 
                        Logansport
                    , on November 23, 1834.36 He had not yet received the deed for
                    Wymego's land. Marshall had been authorized to buy out the Indian reserves in Indiana, and
                    Taylor offered to attend any councils held by the agent. He stated he had "considerable
                    claims" on the Yellow River and 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Indians. These claims had been accumulated since the Treaty of October 27, 1832, and
                    show that Taylor had been active in trading in those years. Senate Document 452 shows that fourteen
                    Potawatomi settlements were made from 1834 to 1837, but none list the names of the traders whose
                    claims were allowed.
            There was no newspaper in 
                        South Bend
                     during this period, and most of the letters of the winter of 1834–1835 are
                    of minor importance, but it is possible to reconstruct Taylor's activities of that period
                    from his inventory made in the spring of 1835. The notes and white accounts had made a very large
                    increase. The Indian accounts are mostly from one season's trade since the 
                        Chicago
                     settlement had been made in October, 1834. The item given for furs on hand may or may
                    not be for the full winter take, but since no outfits were listed for that year, Taylor probably
                    concentrated on business with the whites. A letter to Suydam and Sage, June 2, 1835, enclosed a
                    check for $2,290. endorsed by Alexes Coquillard to Hanna and Taylor.37 A study of his stocks on hand at the start of the winter season shows that most of his
                    supplies were used in credit sales to his white customers. The amount of goods stocked in the summer
                    of 1835 for the coming season more than doubled that bought in any previous year. Taylor obviously
                    chose to disregard the warnings he had previously found in 
                        New York
                    .
            
               INVENTORY—May 26, 1835. from Merchandise Bought, 1833–6, p. 100
               
                  Stock
                  $3,566.74
               
               
                  White Accounts due
                  5,697.50
               
               
                  83 Indian " "
                  865.73
               
               
                  Notes
                  4,338.89
               
            
            
               
                  35 Taylor, Letters and Orders, 23–24.
               
                  36
                        Ibid., 39.
               
                  37
                        Ibid., 50.
            
            
            
               
                  Paid for four sections
                  
               
               
                  Land from
                  
               
               
                  Mogsee
                  
               
               
                  Kanbee
                  
               
               
                  Anmacito
                  
               
               
                  Pet chi co
                  
               
               
                  P. Navarre's wife
                  
               
               
                  Topen ibee
                  
               
               
                  Shaub bo wah tuc an gi
                  
               
               
                  
                  2,012.00
               
               
                  Cash
                  836.86
               
               
                  Furs on hand
                  1,104.11
               
               
                  
                  $18,420.83
               
               
                  Debts, including $2,000
                  6,880.10
               
               
                  Stock in store.
               
            
            Taylor assisted a social project launched near 
                        South Bend
                     and lost money.38 Father Stephen Theodore Badin was a Catholic
                    priest who had established a chapel at Po-kagon's village. He received a charter from the
                    Indiana Legislature to establish an orphan's asylum and school on a site of about 524 acres
                    where the University of Notre Dame is now located. He began the school by building a cabin and
                    chapel in May, 1834, and named it Sainte Marie des Lacs. It probably functioned for a short time but
                    was abandoned by 1835. Badin deeded the property to Bishop Bruté on condition that he
                    assume the debts incurred in building the school.39
            
            Taylor had loaned a total of $679.34 for building and operating the school to Badin and
                    when the school was abandoned, hired Judge Sample to act for him. He also instructed attorneys,
                    Morris and Drake to settle on the Bishop's terms if they thought it advisable.40 He received one hundred dollars from Bertrand and two hundred dollars from
                    Coquillard's father-in-law, Camparet, both supporters of Catholic projects; a draft on 
                        New York
                     for $201.50 and 
                  
                     38
                     Ibid., 52.
                  
                     39
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1893–1895, pp. 75–78;
                            "Father Badin Applies to the Legislature of Indiana for an Act ‘To
                            Incorporate An Orphan Asylum’ 1832," in American Catholic Historical Researches (29 vols., 
                        Pittsburgh, Philadelphia
                     ,
                            1884–19121 XXV (1908), 26; Thomas T. McAvoy, The Catholic Church in
                                Indiana, 1789–1834, in 
                                Columbia
                             University Studies in History, Economics and Public Law (
                                New York
                            , 1891), No. 471 (1940), 175–202.
                  
                     40 Taylor, Letters and Orders, 61.
               
                     twenty dollars through the attorneys completed the payment of
                    his bill.41
            
            A letter to Suydam, Sage and Company, February 2, 1836, contains a very good clue to Colonel
                    Taylor's business ethics. He had been asked to collect a note from Henricks and Rush of 
                        South Bend
                     for Suydam and Sage. Taylor regretted meddling in his neighbor's business and
                    would only promise to act if his observations showed the firm was in danger of failure. He gave a
                    conservative view of Henricks, and Rush, who were inclined toward spectacular methods.
            The South Bend Free Press became the third newspaper in the town's short
                    history on July 9, 1836. Its first issue reported a citizen meeting to determine the location of a
                    bridge over the St. Joseph River. Colonel Taylor was secretary of the meeting
                    and made the motion that the street should be selected by vote. This was done and the Washington
                    street location was chosen.42
            
            The newspaper carried the notice of the dissolution of the partnership of Hanna and Taylor, effective
                    July 26, 1836.43 These are the only items which can be presented for this
                    period. The lack of records for the final year of partnership was probably due to the accounting
                    made with Hanna. The Letters and Orders Book does not contain any information and suggest that
                    Colonel Taylor did not intend to preserve copies of letters relating to this important transaction.
                    It prevents a comparison of the assets of Hanna and Taylor for the five years of its operation and
                    eliminates one year from the survey. Subsequent letters show the partnership ended in name but that
                    Taylor continued to rely extensively on Hanna. The step was a frequent one. The junior partner set
                    up his own establishment as soon as he was financially able to do so.
            One has a fairly satisfactory picture of the growth of Hanna and Taylor for the period from 1831 to
                    1835 in table VI since the data is not available for 1836. It will be seen that the store's
                    assets were approximately doubled, but an unfortunate feature is very evident. Taylor had relaxed
                    his credit policy to gain much of this increased business. The stock of goods on hand and the credit
                    extended to the Indians 
                  
                     41 Hanna and Taylor, Ledger B, 1833–1835, pp. 466, 472.
                  
                     42
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Free Press, July 9, 1836.
                  
                     43
                     Ibid., October 1, 1836.
               
                    
                    
                  Table VI A Comparison of Inventories of 1831 and 1835.
                  
                     
                     
                                1831
                            
                     
                                1835
                            
                     
                  
                  
                     Stocks of goods
                     $1,993.00
                     $3,566.74
                     
                  
                  
                     Cash
                     312.00
                     836.00
                     
                  
                  
                     White Accounts
                     414.65
                     5,697.50
                     
                  
                  
                     Indian Accounts
                     429.92
                     865.73
                     
                  
                  
                     Notes
                     845.21
                     4,338.89
                     
                  
                  
                     Credit with Hanna
                     2,670.65
                     
                  
                  
                     Skins at hand
                     
                     1,104.11
                  
                  
                     Paid for 4 sections of land
                     
                     2,062.00
                  
                  
                     
                     $6,665.43
                     $18,470.97
                     $18,420.83
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     Credit
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     7,265.10
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     Debit
                  
                  
                     Goods purchased for coming season
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Totals
                     $4,908.25
                     $16,558.84
                     
                  
                had been doubled, but the credit extension in non-interest bearing accounts to whites had
                    been increased fourteen hundred per cent, and the interest bearing notes five hundred per cent in
                    four years. The year before the panic, Taylor purchased a stock of new goods larger than his
                    previous total assets. He occupied a splendid position in the political and economic life of the
                    community and only needed prosperous times to entrench himself.
         
         
         
            The Old Ferry House at 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana
            Julie Le Clerc Knox*
            
            The old river town of 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, was founded in 1801 by the French-Swiss, who left many substantial homes,
                    some more than one hundred and twenty-five years old. One of the best known of these is the old
                    Ferry House, which was being built in 1811 when the first steamboat, the "
                        New Orleans
                    ," passed down the 
                        Ohio
                    . People from miles around camped for days about the foundations of the house as they
                    waited to see this marvel of steam power.
            Among the passengers on this boat were the great-uncle and great-aunt of Theodore Roosevelt. The
                    uncle was a member of the company that built the "
                        New Orleans
                    ." In 1911, in celebration of the centennial anniversary of that pioneer trip,
                    a replica came down the river and passed the dignified old mansion. Again people assembled to view
                    the vessel and to marvel, but this time their wonder was inspired by the fact that so fragile a boat
                    seemed so marvelous to their forebears.
            The gallant old house that had weathered so many floods of the 
                        Ohio
                     finally succumbed about five years ago, and further efforts to make it habitable have
                    been abandoned until flood control is obtained. Now surrounded by a wild growth of shrubbery, it is
                    suggestive of an enchanted castle with a sleeping beauty awaiting her prince charming to break the
                    spell.
            It was long a picturesquely romantic building that posed often for both local and visiting artists.
                    Built of stone with a cement coating, it has an adobe appearance. Climbing vines add to its beauty.
                    The side facing the river has a long veranda, upstairs and down, connected by an outside stair in
                    true foreign fashion. This stair opens by a trapdoor to the upper porch, a guarantee against Indian
                    attacks which never materialized, for the red men were friends of the French-Swiss. The lower
                    veranda has a brick floor. An original "dog run" at the back was filled in. The
                    walls are three feet thick; the doors are heavy and broad. Because of its sturdy build, the old
                    chateau, withstanding the onslaught of river floods which sometimes rose to the top of mantel pieces
                    in the second story, was able to survive so long. There were so many rooms rambling and detached,
                    that one almost needed a guide and compass to go through it. The third story was reached by the
                    conventional narrow, steep, cup-boardlike attic stair. There in a tiny bedroom, long ago, a 
                  
                     * Julie Le Clerc Knox is a resident of 
                                Vevay
                            , Indiana.
               
                     French emigrant, despondent over lack of employment and
                    despairing of ever being able to see again his family across the seas, hanged himself.
            Jean Franqois Dufour, one of the founders of 
                        Vevay
                    , had the place built; and soon after its completion it was advertised in the 
                  
                            Switzerland
                         Monitor, an early newspaper, as a place of entertainment for steamboat
                    travelers. It is a matter of some dispute as to whether or not Monsieur Dufour himself ever occupied
                    the house; however, it is probable that his son Oliver in 1842 brought his bride, Amelia Ruter, to
                    the home where they resided for some years. Mrs. Dufour was a poetess of more than local repute and
                    enjoyed the friendship of George D. Prentice and other distinguished literati of the day, who
                    visited her and her husband in their 
                        Vevay
                     home. Later she acquired further prestige when they resided in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., where her husband held a government position during the Civil War and later
                    under Grant. Through her the old house was embalmed in Footfalls on the Boundary of
                        Another World, for she told Robert Dale Owen the stories he therein related of queer
                    apparitions—not of the dead but of the living—that occurred here.
            In spite of its age, the Ferry House and the Ferryboat rights have until recently belonged to only
                    two families, the Dufours and the Grahams; but after the death of Captain Jack Graham, they passed
                    to his brother-in-law, Charles Tyson. Captain Timothy Graham, the first of his family to own the
                    place, rescued the seventeen-man crew of a flatboat which had been wrecked in the ice. He fed and
                    housed them until they could get home. To show their gratitude they dug for him the largest cistern
                    in the county with a capacity of three hundred barrels; it was known as the "Rescue
                    Cistern."
            Three generations of Grahams, supporting with dignity the best traditions of rivermen, expert and
                    fearless swimmers —many are the lives they have saved—owned and operated the
                    ferry and occupied the house on the rising knoll above the landing. Captain Jack was widely and
                    popularly known for his courtesy, affability, and readiness to oblige, and several pilots of large
                    craft, learned their skill from him. He has "become a name." His sister June was
                    also a licensed pilot.
            The preservation of the old historic house is due to Captain Jack's sister, Miss Eva, who
                    fell heir to it. Although often compelled to leave the place by the encroachment of flood waters,
                    she patiently and courageously restored the damages and resumed her abode there until it was no
                    longer feasible.
         
         
         
            Historical Fiction vs Fictitious History
            Augustus R. Markle*
            
            An example of the distorted ideas of facts regarding Indiana and some of its cities that spout from
                    the pens of the authors of "Best Sellers" or "Books of the
                    Month" is that contained in a recent book by Irving Stone, titled Adversary in
                        the House.
            Purporting to be the story of the life of Eugene Debs, it is made up of gross misstatements of all
                    characters, from the most startling anachronisms to plain mistakes that could so easily have been
                    avoided with any effort to ascertain the facts.
            The opening paragraph tells of the October sun rising as "a little after five" when
                    even a small boy knows that after the equinox the sun does not rise until after six, yet Gene
                    himself said on another page, that he had an alarm clock in his head that told the time better than
                    his watch.
            The account of Robert Ingersoll coming to 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1875 is another error, for his first appearance here was in 1877. And the morning
                    train came in at 11:15, daily except Sunday, and October 17, 1875, was Sunday with no train. It did
                    rain heavily the day that Ingersoll came in 1877, but there was no early morning sun at
                    eleven-thirty. The sun seemed to cause Stone a great deal of trouble, for on page 29 he has it
                    shining through the west door in the morning.
            The Vandalia Railroad did not come to 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1869, as stated on page six, for its trains first came by way of the tracks of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad from the state line June 8, 1870. On page seven, Gene saw the
                    "mustard-colored" frame station, though it was a red brick throughout its
                    existence. The entire story of Gloria is pure fiction, there never was a
                    "triangle" in Gene's life.
            Page 22 probably has the star account of the book. O. J. Smith did not own the Gazette in 1875. He had sold it in 1874. No such story appeared in the paper on Monday morning
                    for no papers were issued on Monday morning, and the Gazette was an evening paper.
                    The clock described on page 123 is in the courthouse that was built after the story occurred. 
                  
                     * Augustus R. Markle is a resident of 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana.
               
                     The brothers passed it in the dark, but there was no light to
                    illuminate it until years later.
            Gene and Kate were married on Tuesday, June 9, 1885, and not on Sunday morning. They could not catch
                    an early train on Sunday, for there was no train on Sunday until after noon. The church and county
                    records dispute the statement on page 118. And in 1875 there was no principal of Rose Polytechnic to
                    fail to introduce Robert Ingersoll as shown on page 11, for the Institute did not open until 1882.
                    One should also add that Jenny Lind left America on May 29, 1852 (page 43).
            The vilification of 
                        Terre Haute
                     is more serious. On page 301 is a story of the Mayor stealing a half million dollars
                    from the city, of a dangerous water system, and of no lighting at night. The facts are that the
                    waterworks was in operation in 1875, and the street lights date from 1858. The most absurd story is
                    on pages 393 and 594. No such incident ever occurred and Governor Warren T. McCray was not in office
                    until 1921.
         
         
         
            Documents
            An Owenite Society in 
                        Illinois
                    
            
            Waltsr B. Hendrickson*
            
            When Robert Owen came to the United States in 1824, not only did he establish the community at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, but he inspired the foundation (or proposed foundation), of other communities
                    or co-operative enterprises.1 Frank Podmore mentions six, and George B. Lockwood
                    says that there were more than nineteen communities in the United States owing their existence to
                    the enthusiasm generated by Owen.2 Recently information became available about a
                    heretofore unknown co-operative society at the English settlement in Edwards County, 
                        Illinois
                    , where the towns of Albion and Wanborough had been founded by Morris Birkbeck and
                    George Flower.3 The major source is the document here printed in full. The
                    original is in the manuscript collection of the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library at 
                        Springfield
                    .4 It is the purpose of this introduction to demonstrate Robert
                    Owen's direct inspiration of the Wanborough society.
            In the first place, Owen visited the English settlement for several days. This was natural because it
                    had been Richard 
                  
                     * Walter B. Hendrickson is professor of history at Mac
                            Murray College, 
                        Jacksonville, Illinois
                     .
                  
                     1 But, as Frank Podmore says, "The New World was prepared
                            … to welcome both the man and his doctrines." For example, in 
                                New York
                             had been founded sometime before 1822 a "Society for promoting
                            communities," and Owen's New View of Society (
                                London
                            , 1813), had been published. Podmore, Robert Owen, A Biography
                            (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1906), I, 289. See also "A Sketch for the formation of a Society of
                            Mutual Co-operation and Community of Property, to be composed of tradesmen, farmers, clerks,
                            mechanics, &c. intended to be established in the state of New Yoyk,"
                            written by William Hebert and appended to his A Visit to the Colony of
                            Harmony (
                                London
                            , 1825). This is most conveniently found in Harlow Lindley (ed.), Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers in Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916), III (1916), 327–329.
                  
                     2 Podmore, Robert Owen, I, 333; George Lockwood, The New Harmony Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1905), 177–178. As Arthur E. Bestor, Jr., says, "The
                            impact of Owenism in 
                                America
                             was a complex thing. …" See "Education and Reform
                            at 
                                New Harmony
                            , Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos Fretageot,
                            1820–1833," in Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1895), XV (1948), 298. See also, ibid., 304. The
                            present study may be considered as a contribution to the understanding of this impact of
                            Owenism.
                  
                     3 See Jane Rodman, "The English Settlement in Southern 
                                Illinois
                            , 1815–1825," in the Indiana Magazane of
                                Hisstory (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905), XLIII (1947), 329–362.
                  
                     4 A photostat of the document was supplied throuh the courtesy of Mr.
                            Jay Monaghan, State Historian of 
                                Illinois
                            , ant it is with his permission that the document is here printed.
               
                     Flower (the father of George), who told the Scotch
                    philanthropist that the Rappites wished to sell their town of Harmony.5 Owen
                    arrived at Harmony on December 16, 1824, to negotiate with Frederick Rapp, and on Saturday, December
                    25, he came to Albion to visit George Flower.6 The next day Owen addressed a
                    gathering of the settlers at Albion. So large was the crowd (about two hundred), and so mild was the
                    weather that the meeting was held in the open air. Captain Donald Macdonald recorded Owen's
                    remarks: He "commenced by congratulating himself at being surrounded by so many speaking
                    his own language & brought up as he had been, & so far from his own home. He then
                    stated the principles of Human Nature that Man's character consists of & is formed
                    by the Power that creates him and 2ndly. by the circumstances in which he is placed after birth.
                    Thence he traced the effect of charity, kindness & benevolence, and the absence of the angry
                    passions. —He told them that such alone was pure religion, and that they might be certain
                    it did not exist wherever anger, ill will, and uncharitable conduct was found. He called their
                    attention to the necessity of placing themselves in the best and excluding the worst circumstances,
                    commented upon the advantages of Union, and spoke of those principles alone being able to produce
                    it. He shewed his plans & read the rules & regulations for a community as drawn out
                    & adopted by the British & Foreign Philanthropic Society, formed in 
                        London
                     four years ago."7 Owen spoke for two and a half hours and
                    the crowd, as Macdonald said, "broke up quietly & in good humor. Several persons
                    spoke of his views & plans as being highly satisfactory."8
            
            The people of Albion and Wanborough discussed Owen's speech among themselves. A dozen and a
                    half persons signed an agreement, offering to become members of a community,9
                    
                  
                     5 J. S. DUSS, George Ra and His Associates (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1914), 23–25; Podmore, Robert Owen, I,
                            232, 285–289.
                  
                     6 "The Diaries of Donald Macdonald," in Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, XIV (1942) 255; George Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , in 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society Collections (12 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1882–1928),. I, 282; Joel E. Hiatt (ed.), "Diary of
                            William Owen," in Indiana Histoncal Society Publications, IV
                            (1906), 82, 83–84.
                  
                     7 "The Diaries of Donald Macdonald," in Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, XIV, 257.
                  
                     8
                     Ibid.
                  
                     9 Several of the settlers at Albion and Wanborouh joined the community
                            at 
                                New Harmony
                            . Flower, History of the English Settlement in Edwards County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 282–288.
               
                     and on Thursday a group of over seventy men and women appeared
                    at the Brick Tavern in Albion to hear Owen once again explain his proposals for uplifting and
                    improving the moral, economic, and social condition of men through communal action.10
            
            Among those present at these two meetings was William Hall, a lower middle class Englishman who, in 
                        England
                    , had been, as he said, carrying "a load of Care & Anxiety"
                    because of the difficulty of providing for the numerous family with which God had blessed him. Hall
                    had brought his wife and their nine children to the United States in 1821 because he wanted to
                    escape "that Aggregation of Oppression, Tyranny, Hypocrisy, & Misery which
                    prevailed in 
                        England
                    " and with the hope of establishing his family in "Freedom &
                    Independence, of enjoying the fruits of our industry in peace & Security." In 
                        Illinois
                     he had bought eighty-five acres of land, erected a cabin, planted corn, started an
                    orchard and garden, and acquired livestock. Through the hard work of every member of the family,
                    they all made a reasonably comfortable living. Hall had had a fair education, and was interested in
                    botany and ornithology, and practiced scientific farming. He had a rather speculative turn of mind
                    and he read and thought about the economic and social problems which men were called upon to
                        solve.11
            
            As noted above, Hall was present at Owen's meetings and though in his journal he does little
                    more than record his presence,12 he was certainly impressed by Robert Owen and
                    his ideas. On the return to 
                        New Harmony
                    , Owen stopped to visit with Hall and inspected his farrn,13 and a
                    couple of weeks later Hall and two neighbors went to Harmony to find out what was being done there.
                    Robert Owen had left for the East, but Captain Macdonald and William Owen entertained Hall and his
                    companions for two days. They carefully examined the fields and factories at Harmony, and spent the
                        
                  
                     10 "The Diaries of Donald Macdonald," in Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, XIV, 260–261; "Diary
                            of William Owen," in ibid, IV, 88–90.
                  
                     11 "From England to 
                                Illinois
                             in 1821: The Journal of William Hall," in Journal of
                            the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     ,
                            1908), XXXIX (1946), 21–67, 208–253, passim. The
                            quotations are from pages 23 and 24. Flower, History of the English Settlement
                                in Edwards County, 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 149,
                  
                     12 "From England to 
                                Illinois
                             in 1821: The Journal of William Hall," in Journal of
                            the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, XXXIX, 238.
                  
                     13 "Diary of William Owen," in Indiana Historical
                            Society Publications, IV, 85.
               
                     evenings in extended discussion of Robert Owen's plans
                    and theories.14 As a result of his inquiries, Hall said that he understood the
                    principles upon which Owen would establish the community at Harmony to be "the united
                    efforts of the whole directed by a Committee of 12 toward the general benefit. This Committee is to
                    be appointed by a majority of votes of the members, 8 by those members who have brot. money into the
                    Concern & 4 by those who have not. The Committee will … divide itself into Sub
                    Committees to superintendent the different branches of the establishment. The Education of the
                    Children which will commence as early as two years old will be most particularly attended to
                    & is intended to be conducted under an entire new system without Praise,
                    or Blame, Reward or Punishment, & thus minds are to be
                    from infancy directed to look with pity on the failings & imperfections of others &
                    to seek their enjoyment not in their individual gratification but in the general happiness of
                        society."15 But when one compares this exposition of
                    Owen's ideas with the plan which Hall drew up for his own co-operative enterprise, it is
                    clear that while he was impressed with Owen's economic ideas, he was reserving judgment on,
                    or even rejecting, Owenite educational theories.
            Hall's next contact with 
                        New Harmony
                     and Robert Owen came on April 20, 1825, when he and others went to hear Owen outline
                    what came to be called the "Preliminary Society,"16 and some
                    time in the last part of May, Hall visited again in 
                        New Harmony
                     and talked with Robert Owen.17 This, so far as Hall's
                    journal shows, was the last time that Hall and Owen were together. But undoubtedly there was much
                    discussion between Hall and some of his neighbors about plans and possibilities of improving their
                    lot. As noted above, some of the English had joined the community at 
                        New Harmony
                    . Evidently Hall and his associates would not go that 
                  
                     14 "From England to 
                                Illinois
                             in 1821: The Journal of William Hall," in Journal of
                            the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, XXXIX, 239: "Diary of William
                            Owen," in Indiana Historical Society Publications, IV, 103.
                  
                     15 "From England to 
                                Illinois
                             in 1821: The Journal of William Hall," in Journal of
                            the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, XXXIX, 239.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 242. See also "The Diaries of Donald Macdonald,"
                            in Indiana Historical Society Publications, XIV, 292. Although it is not
                            relevant here, it should be noted that there is a discrepancy in the date of this meeting.
                            The 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, Gazette, October 1, 1825, and Lockwood, The New Harmony Movement, page 83, give the date as April 27.
                  
                     17 "From England to 
                                Illinois
                             in 1821: The Journal of William Hall," in Journal of
                            the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, XXXIX, 242.
               
                     far, probably because of Owen's unorthodox views on
                    religion and education, and so, in Hall's words, this was the course of action decided
                    upon: "At a meeting held at my House [July 24, 1825] six of us constituted ourselves into a
                    Society to be styled the Wanborough Joint Stock Society. Myself, A: Emmerson, & C: Ayres
                    were appointed to form a Committee & I was appointed Secretary and Treasurer."
                    Later, on August 20, he records, "It was agreed at a meeting of the Society that myself, A.
                    Emmerson, & Wm. Woodlands should be appointed to value the stock of the members &
                    that at the valuation of either of our own stock A: McWhorter should be called in in place of that
                    one of us whose stock should be under valuation. It was also agreed that the Land under Cultivation
                    shoud [be] valued at $6. & the uninclosed Land at $2 pr.
                    Acre." These are the only direct references to the "Society" in
                    Hall's journal, but the following entries indicate that further steps were taken to
                    implement the joint agreement: August 22, 1825. "The Wanbro mill was given possession of to
                    myself, A: Emmerson, & Chas Ayres by T: Hine. A Valuation of the stock of T: Hine was taken
                    by E: Walker & B: Dorrettry." This statement should be read in connection with an
                    earlier one of August 13: "Went to Village Creek with D: Hearsum & E: Emmerson to
                    assist in taking the Level of a section of the Creek which was said to offer a sufficient fall for a
                    saw mill. Hearsum found the descent was only 81/2 In: in 130
                    yards." Apparently, since there was not enough water power available for the
                    "Society" to erect its own mill, Hall and the others acquired Hine's
                    Wanborough Mill for the "Society."18
            
            And this is all that is known about the "Wanborough Joint Stock Society."19 At least, since Hall discontinued his Journal20 and
                    George Flower made no mention of it in his account of the English settlement, there is no
                    documentary evidence that the "Society" continued. It is significant, though, that
                    the Owen-
                        New Harmony
                     influence was extended 
                  
                     18
                     Ibid., 244–245.
                  
                     19 It is probably Hall's "Society" to which
                            William Pelham refers in a letter to William Pelham, Jr., written from 
                                New Harmony
                             on September 9, 1825: "Associations on Mr. Owen's principles
                            I find are springing up in the various places. Besides the society at Yellow Spring, and the
                            one you mention in Allegany [sic] Co. Pa. another has been formed at
                            Albion, 
                                Illinois
                             …, of which a favorable acct. has been recd. here." See
                            "Letters of William Pelham written in 1826 to 1826, in Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers, 374.
                  
                     20 The last regular entry is November 13 1825. "From England
                            to 
                                Illinois
                             in 1821: The Journal of William kall," in Journal of
                            the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, XXXIX, 246.
               
                     into 
                        Illinois
                    . Also it is significant that Hall and his fellows adopted the economic features of
                    Owenism, but none of the social, religious, and moral objects which were equally important in the
                    schemes of Robert Owen. The joint agreement, however, did provide for equality among members in the
                    distribution of profits after expenses were met; but included among the expenses was the payment of
                    four per cent interest to those who had contributed the capital. In other words, this was a
                    co-operative capitalistic enterprise, not at all socialistic, and was exactly what it was called, a
                    "Joint Stock Society." If Hall and his associates had wanted to become socialists,
                    they would have gone to 
                        New Harmony
                    . Finally, it may be noted that in the statement of advantages to be derived from the
                    "union of Labour and Capital" the signers aimed to overcome some of the hazard and
                    unpleasantness of life on the frontier. It must have seemed to them that the co-operation of the
                    members of the group would accomplish more for each than could individual effort. In the long run,
                    though, the things that William Hall and his associates wanted were secured not through private
                    economic action, but rather through political means as the population of the West grew, and as
                    national, state, and local governments assumed responsibility for the welfare of the members of
                    society.
            
                    Conditions proposed to be entered into by the undersigned Persons preparatory to the formation of
                        a Society upon the principle of a union of Labour and Capital21
               
                    
                  1 A Valuation shall be taken of the Land, Live Stock, Crop[s] & Implements of the
                            several Members which shall henceforth form the Joint Stock of the Society & be the
                            Security for any Debt which may be regularly contracted by the Society in conformity with
                            its Rules & Regulations, but the private property of any individual Member shall not
                            be considered responsible or be in any manner affected by the Acts of the Society in its
                            collective capacity. 
                        
                           21 This is an exact transcript, spelling, capitalization, and
                                    punctuation being as they are in the original document. It is written on both sides
                                    of two 77/8 by 127/8 inch sheets. A small part of the first sheet is missing, and,
                                    so far as possible, words have been supplied and enclosed in brackets. Concerning
                                    the authorship and identification of handwriting and signatures, the following
                                    letter to Walter B. Hendrickson from Miss Margaret Flint, Reference Librarian of the 
                                        Illinois
                                     State Historical Library, dated April 2, 1948, is quoted: "The
                                    signatures of William Hall, McWhorter, and the names following [the latter] are all
                                    in the same handwriting. A comparison of these signatures and the document indicate
                                    that all were written by the same person. The Hall Journal has been returned to the
                                    owners so no actual comparison can be made, but it is assumed that William Hall
                                    signed the ‘Conditions,’ and therefore wrote the
                                    document." It is my own opinion that this is not necessarily the only copy
                                    of the "Conditions" that was made, but that this copy, at least,
                                    was intended as the official one, and that Hall wrote it as a part of his duty as
                                    secretary-treasurer, and is thus his own record of those who were members.
                     
                        
                  
                  2 An equal division of the Proceeds of the Labour and Capital of the Society shall
                            annually be made amongst all its Members after the following demands shall have been
                            satisfied in the following order, First, The interest of such Sum or Sums of Money which may
                            have been raised upon the security of the Stock of the Society shall be regularly paid.
                            Secondly, Tradesmens Bills & all the [necessities?] of the Society shall be
                            discharged. Thirdly, Ten pe[r cent shall be?] set apart out of the Sum remaining after
                            payment of [the foregoing?] demands to form a fund for paying of the incumbrances [of the
                            soci?]ety. Fourthly, Four per Cent interest upon the Capital of the [Society?] shall be paid
                            to the Persons entitled to receive it.
                  3 The Sum remaining after the foregoing demands ha[ve been?] satisfied together with the
                            Wool, Cotton, Flax, Hemp, Lea[ther?] Tallow, & Wheat, which may remain unsold, shall
                            be equally shared amongst all the members of the Society who together with their families
                            shall be regularly supplied with food from the Produce raised by the Society.
                  4 In the event of the Death of any Member of the Society, his family shall not be
                            disturbed or molested in the occupation of the Premises belonging to the Society which were
                            occupied by him, and they shall be regularly supplied with food by the Society, &
                            continue to be treated in the same manner as they were during his lifetime, while she
                            remains a widow, but they shall not be entitled to any other share of the Produce of the
                            Society unless there be Children in its employment, in which case there shall be allowed one
                            half of a single Members share to every Young Man between the Ages of 15 and 17 Years and
                            three fourths of a like share to every one between the Ages of 17 and Twenty one Years at
                            which period they shall have the option of becoming Members of this Society if their moral
                            Character does not render them unfit for it. And this provision regarding Sons under Age
                            shall extend to the benefit of any Member who may chuse to avail himself of it.
                  5 This Engagement shall be binding upon the Parties who have given up their Property to
                            the Uses of the Society for the term of Fourteen Years after which term if the Sum specified
                            as the Value of their Land in [?] taken at the formation of the Society, be not paid to [?]
                            Months after Notice regularly given, they shall have full [?]er, & possess the same
                            with all the Buildings & Improvements [that h?]ave been made upon it without paying
                            any Valuation for the [?] they shall have a farther claim upon the Society for the Va-[lue
                            of the?] Stock, Cattle &c, originally given up by them, either in Money [?] valued,
                            or, on Articles of the same description & Va-[lue at the] option of the Society, And
                            also for the arrears of interest which may be due upon their share of the Capital.
                  6 The Buildings now erected with the Gardens & Offices attached to them, not being
                            included in the Valuation remain the sole Property of the present Possessors their Heirs
                            & Assigns, unless the Society chuse to take them at a fair Valuation at the
                            expiration of the aforesaid term of years when they shall have the right of so doing.
                  7 The Society shall appoint a Committee of Three Persons by whom and by whom only shall be
                            transacted all the Concerns of the  Society and the
                            Society shall not be held responsible for any Contracts made or any Engagements entered into
                            by any Person or Persons whoever except the Persons they appoint to form this Committee, and
                            the unanimous Consent & the signature of every Member of it shall be held
                            indispensably necessary to the binding this Society to the fulfilment of any Contract or
                            Engagement of importance.
                  8 The Committee shall appoint one of their Number to act as Secretary & Treasurer
                            to the Society & empower him to pay and receive Monies & to transact the
                            ordinary business of the Society. He shall keep regular accounts which shall be always open
                            to the inspection of any Member of the Society at proper hours.
                  9 This Committee may at any time be dissolved and another appointed by a Resolution of a
                            Majority of three fourths of the Members of the Society.
                  
                            10 These Conditions shall be considered Fundamental & a majority of not less than
                                five sixths of the Members of the Society shall be required to make any alteration in
                                them.
                            The advantages the Members expect to derive from entering into this Association, are 1st
                                They feel convinced that their Land will all be brought into cultivation in much less
                                time and at much less expence than it coud at the present state of things.
                            2d That by working together with one common interest their Labour will be much less
                                irksome & pass of [sic] more cheerfully and having the
                                advantage of the united experience of the Community it will be better directed &
                                of course much more effective.
                            3d They hope to secure to their Children the benefits of Education & to
                                themselves & their families the advantage of Medical attendance & to be
                                relieved from that long train of anxieties attendant upon a fit of sickness in the busy
                                Season, And in the event of their death their families will not be left unprovided for.
                            4th Their Live Stock may be managed to much greater advantages the Young Cattle kept
                                separate & better wintered, A regular Flock established & properly
                                looked after. And many other Advantages secured to them, which they cannot expect to
                                enjoy in their present State.
                            
                        Wm Hall 26 July - 1825
                        Alan Emmerson 26 July 1825
                        William Woodland Do
                        John Woodland Do
                        Charles Ayres 27th July 1825
                        Wm. Hall Junr 26 July 1825
                        Anderson McWhorter
                        Samuel Prichard 12 Aug 1825
                        Thomas Prichard 11 Aug 1825
                        Noah Stapleford 15 Aug 1825
                        Joseph Mounce 1st Aug- 1825
                        Samuel McKemie
                     
                        
               
                
         
         
         
            Richard Owen's Comment on United States Geological Survey
            Contributed by Louis M. Sears*
            
            J. R. Lowell to F. T. Frelinghuysen
            [National Archives, Department of State, Great Britain. Vol. 148. Dispatch No. 725, 
                        Lowell
                     to Frelinghuysen.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Legation of the United States, 
                                    London
                                 ,
                           
                                    February 29 1884
                                
                        Sir—
                        I have the honour to enclose two copies of a note received yesterday from the eminent
                                    naturalist Professor Richard Owen. One of these, I should be glad to have
                                    transmitted, in accordance with what seems to be Professor Owen's wish, to
                                    the Honourable the Secretary of the Interior. The very conspicious position of the
                                    writer of this letter in the world of science lends great weight and value to his
                                    opinions and this hearty expression of them cannot fail to give much gratification
                                    to the projectors and authors of the surveys to which he alludes as well as to the
                                    Government which authorized them.
                        
                                    I have the honour to be with great respect Your obedient
                                        servant
                                    J. R. Lowell
                                
                        Honourable F. T. Frelinghuysen Secretary of State &c &c
                                    &c
                     
                  
               
                
            [Signature is 
                        Lowell
                    's. Handwriting is that of Henry White, recently appointed Secretary of the
                    Legation.]
            Richard Owen to J. R. Lowell
            [National Archives, Enclosure in Dispatch No. 725, Department of State, Great Britain, Vol. 148.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Sheen Lodge, Richmond Park, E. Sheen, S.W.
                           
                                    27th February, 1884.
                                
                        Your Excellency,
                        I have been favoured to receive, and have gratefully acknowledged the
                                    "Report of the Director of the United States Geological Survey, 1880,
                                    1881"; with those of the accomplished Staff of the Survey; in several most
                                    instructive and richly illustrated Volumes—8vo 4to and Folio.
                        I cannot refrain from expressing to your Excellency my sense of the Scientific value
                                    of the Scale on which this Survey has been conducted, and of the munificence shown
                                    in the publication and illustration of the results of the arduous and hazardous
                                    labours of the Surveyors. They are most exemplary; and the support which they have
                                    received from the "Hon: the Secretary of the Interior" is
                                    especially valuable as an incitement to the Authorities of all other Civilized
                                    States.
                        
                                    I have the honour to be, Your Excellency's faithful
                                        Servant,
                                    Richard Owen.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  * Louis M. Sears is professor of history at Purdue University, 
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana.
            
         
         
         
            Three Additional Rappite Letters
            Edited by John C. Andressohn*
            
            Through the kindness of Henry A. Meyer of Central High School, 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, it is possible to publish three additional letters containing references to
                    the Rappites. Meyer is an ardent philatelist and these letters come from philatelic collections.
            The letter dated Corydon, January 25, 1824, has several points of interest. The writer was Samuel
                    Merrill, the first treasurer of Indiana, who went to 
                        New Harmony
                     to interest the Rappites in a loan to the state.
            The letter of April 24, 1826, reveals that the Rappites, after their return to Pennsylvania,
                    maintained active trade relations with 
                        Louisville
                    . An effort was made to get some information concerning the Isaac & Willis
                    Stewart Co., but as yet with little success. Meyer writes with reference to this letter: "I
                    bought it for the notation ‘P. St. Bt. Gen. Pike’. The General Pike was a very
                    early boat on the upper 
                        Ohio
                    . The absence of a postmark means that it was carried as a favor by the boat's
                    captain or clerk and handed to any Rappite who was at the landing when the boat stopped at
                    Economy."
            The letter dated October 12, 1830, is especially interesting because of the sidelights it throws upon
                    the outside attitude toward the Rappites. It was written in German without regard to any system of
                    orthography and practically devoid of punctuation. It was sent by George Kurtz to Frederick Rapp at
                    Economy. Although Kurtz wrote the letter on October 12, 1830, he did not mail it until December 31,
                    1830. He was a runaway Rappite and had been involved in illicit relations with some woman either in
                    Economy or near there. When the woman was with child, he offered her one hundred dollars if she
                    would in writing release him from further obligations. She agreed on condition that he take her to
                    her sister, but the judge (or justice of the peace) declared the paper worthless, whereupon Kurtz
                    left Economy and took the woman to 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, where the child was presumably born. He began to yearn for a return to
                    Economy but waited two and a half months before sending the letter to Frederick Rapp. According to
                    his story he vigorously vindicated Frederick Rapp and the Community against the abusive accusations
                        
                  
                     * John C. Andressohn is a member of the history department
                            at Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
               
                     current in 
                        Madison
                    . His ardent defense is described at length, probably in the hope of facilitating his
                    return to Economy.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Corydon
                           
                                    Jan 25, 1824.
                                
                        Dear Parents. Your letter containing Mr. Brown's Certificate arrived some
                                    time since but from the session of the Legislature that is now just closing, I have
                                    been so busy that I have not yet located it. I have been trying to sell it but in
                                    this part of the County most of the good land has been sold so that I shall not be
                                    able till the weather settles in the Spring to get the worth of it. As soon as I can
                                    dispose of it to advantage, I will inform you.
                        Our family have for the last year enjoyed good health, though yesterday some little
                                    change took place by the birth of another daughter, which I believe is to have the
                                    name of Catharine. The luck of the Merrills seems at present not to lie in the boy line, unless Hazen has before this time done something to
                                    keep up the name, I fear it will be in a bad way. Our winter has hitherto been very
                                    warm and wet, no snow has fallen and grass fields are quite green.
                        The present Legislature has passed a Law to change the seat of government from this
                                    place to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     which lies 108 miles north of this place and about 90 miles west from 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    . Three years ago the town was laid out in the woods near fifty miles
                                    distant from any settlements of white people, it has now 80 or 100 houses and
                                    probably will have twice that number in a year. The County around it also has 5 or
                                    600 families. We shall not move however till late in the fall.
                        I was not long since at a place called Harmony a settlement of Germans containing
                                    about 800 people who are entirely under the domination of one man. The town is
                                    situated about 25 miles from the mouth of the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , and is large enough to accommodate themselves well. They have two
                                    churches one for Winter and the other for summer the latter of which is nearly twice
                                    the size of yours. Every kind of manufacture that can be of use is there carried
                                    ‘on, and the value of their property is becoming immense. Though the head
                                    of them is sufficiently polite yet it is very difficult to know much about their
                                    real situation. Most of them do not understand English and those who do have little
                                    disposition to gratify idle curiosity. It is certain I believe that they do not seek
                                    converts, and that it is very rare that children are born among them. My business
                                    was to obtain a loan for the State which kept me so much engaged that I had no time
                                    to make so many observations as I wished.
                        During this winter we have generally had excellent preaching which is not common in
                                    this country. When the Missionary Society of the East remembers, we try to subscribe
                                    and pay so much as not to be a burthen to them. Exertions have been made here to
                                    procure a regular Presbyterian preacher but as yet without success.
                        I hope some of you will write soon. Where is David and how do the Dr. and Betsy come
                                    on?
                        
                                    I am your affectionate son
                                    Sam1 Merrill
                                
                        
                        I did think of coming home this Summer but the removal of the Seat of
                                    Government will prevent me. Addressed to Jesse Merrill Esquire
                                        Pearham 
                                            Vermont
                                        
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Louisville
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Monday Apl. 24 1826
                                
                        Mr. Frederick Rapp
                        Sir
                        Enclosed please find bill of lading for nine bales of Cotton per Steam Boat Genl.
                                    Pike, which is the remainder of the 41 bales rec'd on Saturday per Steam
                                    Boat 
                                        Lexington
                                    — We intended to have shipped the whole on Saturday per
                                    Velocepede; but we could not get drays enough in time to get the whole up, and she
                                    departed with 32 Bales, of which we advised you by letter of 22d Inst.
                        
                                    Respectfully yours
                                    Isaac & Willis Stewart Co.
                                
                        PS. We will soon be prepared to receive dry goods on
                                    Consignment—Should you wish to send any of your Cotton goods here, we
                                    think we could sell a considerable quantity of them—Spun Cotton is a good
                                    article here now, of which we have none on hand, & could sell considerable.
                                    Resp. again I & w St. co.
                            We intend to make a
                                    bill agst the Purchases of the Penn, for all expenses attending the unfortunate bill
                                    & for interest, which we very conscienciously think they are in honor bound
                                    to pay,—Whether they will think so or not we do not know.
                                    I & w s co.
                            Addressed to Mr.
                                        Frederick Rapp Economy Pa. Paket Genl. Pike 
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Madison
                                 ,
                           
                                    October 12, 1830.
                                
                        Much beloved Father [George Rapp] and Frederick [Rapp],
                        If my letter finds you in good health I shall be happy. I too am well, but not in
                                    good spirits. I am very sorry that I have left Economy; I find no rest by day or
                                    night; my conscience tells me that I did wrong. Therefore I beg of you that you will
                                    plead for me to have me again received into the Society, for it is terrible how
                                    those [of Economy] are despised.
                        When I returned from 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , I arranged with her [the woman with whom he was involved] to give her
                                    $100 if she gave me a statement in writing, and she agreed on the
                                    condition that I take her to her sister. This I agreed to do, but when I appeared
                                    before the Justice [of the Peace?], he said that it was of no avail. Then I decided
                                    to go down the Beaver [he means the 
                                        Ohio
                                    ]; when I arrived at 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    , I thought I would not reveal my identity, but there John Kurtz
                                    recognized  me. With him I went into the city to
                                    Scheide's. When I arrived, he was full [of praise?] for the Society; then I
                                    spoke a few words [probably mentioning his departure from Economy], whereupon a
                                    complete change took place in him [denouncing the Society]. He let me read a letter,
                                    but would not let me read the signature, in which all things which occurred [at
                                    Economy] were described. It is horrible how dark they painted you.
                        I entered a grocery; there they asked me from where I came; when I said from Economy,
                                    they asked whether my eyes had been opened; then they said that you were the
                                    greatest swindlers that ever lived on earth. I said that they would have to prove it
                                    to me or I should not be satisfied. Then they told me that Frederick had visited a
                                    house of ill-fame and got the pocks. Then I said it wasn't true; then they
                                    said they would prove it to me. I said I would bet $100 that it
                                    wasn't true. I was so angry that I threw $100 on the counter and
                                    said, "If you are not liars, put your $100 down."
                                    Thereupon they slunk away and I never saw any of them.
                        From there I went to 
                                        Madison
                                     to Höhr, and I left her there until the child is born. With
                                    Höhr I had a total break; I could no longer bear to hear how he called
                                    the good men [of Economy] scoundrels; it was just as if one had thrust a dagger into
                                    my breast. They said I was more ignorant than a dog or R eat; they begin to see in
                                    nine days, but not I.
                        I am now working in 
                                        Madison
                                     at my trade; I am getting along fairly well, but of what use is that to
                                    me if I cannot find rest. I beg of you that if one of you comes down this way, you
                                    will be so kind as to look me up. You need only ask for the hatter Lee. Then I shall
                                    relate everything concerning myself.
                        
                                    I remain your most faithful friend,
                                    George Kurtz
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Mattesen
                           
                                    Oktober 12 1830
                                
                        Viel Geliebter vatter und Friedrich wan euch mein Schreiben Gesund antrift, so wirds
                                    mich freuen, ich bin auch gesund, aber nicht vergnügt, es hat mich sehr
                                    gereuen das ich die Economy verlasen habe ich habe Tag oder Nacht keine Ruhe mein
                                    Gewisen sagt mir ich habe nicht recht gethan deswegen bitte ich euch ihr
                                    möchtet vor mich bitten das ich wieder ihn die Gesellschaft
                                    möchde aufgenommen werden dan es ist schreklich Wie die verachtet seyt,
                                    als ich wieder zurükkam von Pittsburch hab ich es mit ihr ausgemach ich
                                    wollte ihr 100 Thaler geben Wan sie mir ein Schreiben gebe, und sie hat gesagt sie
                                    wollte es thun, Wan ich sie zu ihrer Schwostern bringen wollte, ich habe gesagt ich
                                    wolde es thun, als ich zu dem Justis kam sagt er mir es sey vor nichts dan hab ich
                                    mich entschlosen den Beber hinunder zu gen als ich nach Sensenade kam, hab ich
                                    gedach wolte mich nich zu erken geben dan hat mich der Johannes Kurtz gekand dan bin
                                    ich mit ihm hin auf fin die Statd zu dem Scheides als ich zu ihm kam war er voll
                                    über die Geselschaft dan sagt ich ihm etliche Worde dan ist er ganz
                                    anderrs geworden er hat mich auch einen brif sehen lasen, aber den Namen nicht wer
                                    ihn geschrieben hat, es ist alles darin geschrieben gewesem was sich zu getragen hat
                                    es ist Schröklich, wie ihr so Schwan seyn,  ich kam ihn eine Krosere da haben sie mich gefraget wo
                                    ich her komme dan sagte ich ihnen ich kom von der Economy dan sagten sie ob mir auch
                                    die Augen aufgegangen were dan sageden sie ihr wöhren die
                                    Grösten bedrüger wo noch auf Erden Gelebt hätten
                                    dan sagt ich ihnen sie Müssten es rnir beweisen oder ich sey nich zu
                                    frieden, dan haben sie rnir gesagt der Friedrich sey ihn dem Huren Haus gewesen und
                                    habe die Pax bekommen dan sagte ich ihnen es sey nich Wahr dan sagten sie Wollten
                                    mir es beweisen ich sagte ich wolde hundert thaler wetten es sey nicht war, es hat
                                    mich so böss Gemacht, dan hab ich hundert Thaler auf den kannterd
                                    geschmissen und habe gesagt wan ihr keine liigner seyn dan legt auch hundert Thaler
                                    hin, dan seyn sie hinaus geschlichen, und habe keinen mehr gesehen, von dord ging
                                    ich nach Mättesen zu dem Höhr, und habe sie dort gelasen bis
                                    sie ihr Könd hat, mit dem Höhr bin ich Tothal ausgefallen ich
                                    hab es nicht Können hören wan er die Gueden Männer
                                    Spitzbuben geheisen hat das war mir gerath wie wen man mir einen Dolch ihn die Brust
                                    gestosen hätte sie sagden ich sey dummer als ein Hund oder eine Katz die
                                    werde do& ihn neun Thag sehend aber ich nicht, ich Arbeid nun jezt ihn
                                    Mättesen auf meinem Handwerg ich mach zimmlich gut aus, aber waa nutzts
                                    mich das, wan ich keine ruhe habe ich möchte euch bitten wan jemandvon
                                    euch herunderkomnt ihr möchten so gut seyn zu rnir zu Kommen ihr darf nur
                                    nach dem Huthmacher Lee fragen dan will ich es euch alles eniihlen wie es bey mir
                                    steht, ich verbleibe Euer Getreuster Freund
                        
                                    Georg Kurtz
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               First First Ladies, 1789–1865. A Study of the Wives of the Early
                        Presidents. By Mary Ormsbee Whitton. (
                        New York
                    , Hastings House, 1948, pp. x, 341. Illustrations, appendix, bibliography, and portrait
                    of Martha Washington frontispiece. $5.00.)
            It was a fine idea for this book to parade the women themselves whose presidential gowns in the
                    Smithsonian Institution at 
                        Washington
                     are such a center of attraction to the visitors at that museum. Sixteen women were
                    selected for the procession. It moves along with Martha Washington at its head and Mary Lincoln at
                    the end. But as every parade has some design, even a Coxey army, so this one has its director. Mary
                    Ormsbee Whitton is both director and interpreter of the ladies who pass in review. Unfortunately in
                    many cases she has only fragmentary knowledge for some of her interpretations and in other cases she
                    heavily loads them with feminist clichés, thus attempting to speak in the place of many
                    ladies herself instead of letting their biographies as she recites them speak for themselves.
            The purpose of this procession, according to the author, is to "represent a neglected area
                    in the history of American women … before the material itself should be scattered
                    irretrievably in the mists of time [p. 313]." Why these women's gowns hang
                    together, with their wearers so evancescent, is a question which comes to the mind of this
                    commentator in the grandstand. Anyway in cultivating a neglected area of any kind in any history,
                    the cultivator in that "field" may be subject to an inquisition. If it is applied
                    to Martha Washington's and Abigail Adams' personalities, to start with, a first
                    question may well be this: "Did you read carefully New Letters of Abigail
                    Adams published while you were working on these two wives of our presidents?" If the answer
                    is "No," then the verdict might be stern: "Having failed to read what
                    Abigail said about Martha during their close association at 
                        Philadelphia
                    , the second capital of the nation, and before that in 
                        New York
                    , the first capital, your interpretation of Martha Washington is too fragmentary, and
                    that's just too bad." As for Abigail, these new letters reveal her as so
                    bloodthirsty during the X Y Z affair that she longed to have the United States go to war instantly
                    against  the French for the insult to American envoys, despite
                    the vital aid rendered to the American Revolution by the French. She is introduced here as
                    "teller of a 
                        New England
                     love story." She told her story of hate, if not for publication, in
                    unmistakable language.
            Yet as biographer of these ladies this writer has magnetic pages of narrative revealing the courage,
                    the problems which called for it, the initiative, the marital loyalty, and the kinds of dignity
                    which characterized woman after woman in this parade. One of the most appealing to this spectator of
                    their procession is Louisa Adams, wife of John Quincy Adams. Having had an exceedingly dangerous
                    experience in Europe during the last armed act in the Napoleonic war, and expecting revolutionary
                    changes to recur, she established for herself a line of conduct—quiet adaptability though
                    not Buddhistic. This reflective characteristic and firm trait gives distinction to her portrait as
                    this viewer sees it.
            Running through nearly every interpretation by the designer of this parade, however, is her diapason
                    of the feminist credo that these were underprivileged women. Mrs. Monroe for instance is
                    "not permitted to speak for herself," despite her bold action in 
                        Paris
                     when she had faced the prison officials to call upon Mme. La Fayette awaiting there her
                    summons to the guillotine—a deed which, crowning President Monroe's valiant
                    efforts to liberate the wife of the French devotee of America, saved the great French woman from
                    having her head cut off in the reign of terror. With the feminist interjections of such sorts goes
                    the associated credo of the "gentle" tradition, a literary device for a fresh
                    theme having in reality little substance but highly pleasing to readers themselves enjoying new
                    literary themes.
            When all is said that can be said by an inquisition, the verdict of the disagreeable tyrant who
                    raises questions is this: there is power in many of these biographies and facts which every American
                    should know who cares about American history and women in it who helped to make it importantly.
            
               New 
                     Milford, Connecticut
                  
                Mary R. Beard
         
         
            
               Pursuit of the Horizon: A Life of George Catlin, Painter and Recorder of the American
                        Indian. By Loyd Haberly. (
                        New York
                    , The Macmillan Company, 1948, pp. xiii,  239.
                    Illustrations, portrait of George Catlin at the age of fifty-three frontispiece. $5.00.)
            It seems strange that no biography of George Catlin should appear until the publication of this
                    volume more than three-quarters of a century after his death. Catlin was not only a great painter of
                    Indian subjects, but he was a tireless collector of the products of Indian craftsmanship, a world
                    traveler, and the author of a number of books. Finally, one who follows his life story so admirably
                    told in the twenty-five chapters of this book will be inclined to agree with the author that he was
                    in many respects a great man.
            He was born at Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania, in 1796 but a year later his parents removed across the
                    line into 
                        New York
                    . Here young Catlin grew to manhood, attended school, and studied law. He was far more
                    interested in painting than in a legal career and soon sold his law library for enough money to
                    establish himself in a modest studio in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Here he painted miniatures and at times larger portraits. Within three or four years
                    he had become one of the outstanding painters of the country. In 1829, he was married to Clara
                    Gregory, daughter of a well-to-do citizen of 
                        Albany
                    . By this time he made up his mind that destiny had called him to devote his life to
                    portraying on canvas the features, civilization, and lifeways of the American Indians. Accordingly,
                    in 1830 he journeyed to 
                        St. Louis
                     and from that city followed up the Missouri River to visit many
                    strange tribes of the remote parts of the West. From this time until his death in Jersey City in
                    1872, he pursued with boundless energy the vision which he had seen. His was a dual task. First he
                    would preserve with his pencil and brush the Indians in their native environment before changed and
                    corrupted by white civilization. He would then create a greater interest in these aboriginal
                    inhabitants of America by showing his pictures and Indian collections to the people of the United
                    States and of Europe. In achieving the first of these objectives he traveled into the most remote
                    parts of North and South America from 
                        Canada
                     to Terra del Fuego. In the second he exhibited his great Indian gallery in most of the
                    important cities of the eastern part of the United States as well as in 
                        London
                     and various other cities of the British Isles and in 
                        Paris
                     and other cities on the continent of Europe. He was  a tireless worker and his pictures must have numbered many thousands. Naturally, with such an
                    enormous output his paintings varied widely as to quality. In the judgment of a layman, Catlin at
                    his best is very good. At his worst his work is less than mediocre. Apparently, he was equally at
                    home in a smoke-stained Indian lodge or the palace of European royalty. As revealed in the pages of
                    this book, however, Catlin the traveler and painter is a far more attractive figure than Catlin the
                    showman. He was a poor businessman and financial distress eventually caused him to mortgage and
                    re-mortgage his great Indian gallery. It was taken over by one of his creditors in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and stored in packing cases where much of it was destroyed by fire, water, and the
                    ravages of moths and rodents. That part which was preserved was at last given by the heirs of the
                    mortgagee to the Smithsonian Institution, while the cartoon collection formed later was eventually
                    purchased for the 
                        New York
                     Museum of Natural History.
            The life story of Catlin's strange and tragic life is beautifully told in this volume. The
                    author is himself an artist, at least in the use of words, and the book shows every evidence of long
                    and careful research. Two or three minor errors due to the author's lack of knowledge of
                    the geography of some regions Catlin visited should be noted. The title of Chapter IX, "A
                    Tour in 
                        Texas
                    ," is misleading since the Dragoon Expedition with which Catlin visited the
                    villages of the Pawnee Picts in 1834 was never in 
                        Texas
                     but remained on the north side of Red River in what is now 
                        Oklahoma
                    . The mistake is natural since Catlin himself heads his letters written during this
                    expedition "Camp Canadian, 
                        Texas
                    ." Also the False Washita is not "now the Red River" (p. 90).
                    The Washita is a northern tributary of Red River flowing across 
                        Oklahoma
                    . It was formerly called the "False Washita" to distinguish it from
                    the Ouachita River in 
                        Arkansas
                    . Such errors are unimportant and do not detract from the value of the volume. It is a
                    most interesting story which the reader will not want to put aside until the last page is finished.
                    It is illustrated with seventeen Catlin pictures which add much to the beauty and value of the book.
            
               University of 
                            Oklahoma
                        
                Edward Everett Dale
         
         
         
            
               Improvement of Communication with the Pacific Coast as an Issue in American Politics,
                        1783–1865. By Robert H. Russel. (Cedar Rapids, 
                        Iowa
                    , The Torch Press, 1948, pp. viii, 332. Maps and index. $3.75.)
            The author of this volume makes no claim that it "cultivates a virgin historical
                    field." He admits frankly that numerous articles and monographs have dealt with such
                    aspects of his subject, as Asa Whitney's Pacific railway project, the Pacific railway
                    surveys, the overland mail, the pony express, the Gadsden purchase, Anglo-American isthmian
                    diplomacy and the construction of the Union and Central Pacific railways. And he might have included
                    in his list the works of his mentor, the late Professor Frank H. Hodder, and others on the origins
                    of the Kansas-Nebraska Act. It is Professor Russel's belief, however, that no one has
                    "undertaken before to write upon the establishment of improved means of communication with
                    the Pacific coast as a great national problem and a political issue before the American people
                    related to and involved with other great problems and issues of the times."
            The date "1783" in the title is somewhat misleading. Actually only ten pages are
                    given to the period before 1844, when Asa Whitney brought forth his plan for a railway to the
                    Pacific. Sixteen pages suffice to carry the story to the gold discovery in 
                        California
                    , the point at which the detailed discussion of the problem of communication with the
                    Pacific Coast begins.
            Six of the twenty chapters in the volume are devoted to the various schemes for improved
                    transportation across Central America and Mexico with a view to linking 
                        California
                     more closely to the Union. The Panama Railroad, the proposed Atlantic and Pacific Ship
                    Canal, the Tehuantepec Railroad project, and other possible "Transits" across
                    Mexico are discussed in detail, together with the maze of diplomatic negotiations in which they
                    involved us with both England and our neighbors to the South. Although little of this material is
                    new, it is, of course, presented from a point of view rather different from that found in standard
                    treatises on diplomatic history. Since only one of these plans—the Panama
                    Railroad—actually materialized, the space devoted to them seems a trifle excessive.
            
            Professor Russel's chief concern is with the question of the Pacific railway, which for a
                    dozen years was a major subject of controversy in and out of Congress. In this connection the 
                        Memphis
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     railway conventions of 1849, the building of local railways in the
                        Mississippi Valley (referred to by the author as "First
                    Links" in 8 possible highway to the Pacific), and the ambitions of rival promoters all
                    receive detailed consideration. On the railway background of the Kansas-Nebraska Act, Professor
                    Russel adds little to the data found in the writings of Frank H. Hodder, Allen Johnson, Perley O.
                    Ray, George F. Milton, and James C. Malin, although he differs with them on some points of
                    interpretation.
            Perhaps the freshest portion of the book is the thorough discussion of the sectional and local
                    rivalries and jealousies which, between 1854 and 1861, so completely frustrated all efforts to agree
                    upon a route by which this railway to the Pacific was to be built. Professor Russel believes that
                    "if at any time during six or seven years prior to secession Southern congressmen in
                    general had been willing to vote federal aid for Pacific railroads …, two railroads would
                    have been provided for and their construction begun," one of them by the Southern route.
                    And he adds that "it is one of the ironies of history that it was largely this
                    dog-in-the-manger attitude of the South with regard to the Pacific railroad and other measures
                    … that ensured the Republican victory in 1860 which, in turn, was the occasion for
                    secession, war, and the destruction of slavery."
            The volume closes with a discussion of the charters granted to Pacific railways in 1862, the
                    amendments to these in 1864, and the chartering of the Northern Pacific in the latter year.
            Professor Russel's volume is so complete, so thorough and so well buttressed with original
                    materials that it will undoubtedly be the definitive work on the subject. Although he freely
                    acknowledges his indebtedness to authors of secondary accounts, he appears to have neglected some of
                    the more recent of these, such as Wheaton Lane's Commodore Vanderbilt.
            
               
                  
                            Brown
                         University James B. Hedges
         
         
         
            
               The Nickel Plate Road, The History of a Great Railroad. By Taylor Hampton.
                            (
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               , The World Publishing Company, 1947, pp. 366. Illustrations,
                    maps, appendixes, bibliography, arid index. $3.75.)
            Interest in The Nickel Plate Road will not be confined to residents of the five
                    states through which that famous line runs. For the Nickel Plate (whose official title is the
                            
                  New York, Chicago
                and 
                        St. Louis
                     Railroad) has in recent years been one of the roads controlled by Robert R. Young, whom
                    many persons consider America's most progressive businessman.
            Nine of the twenty chapters in the book deal at length with the financing and construction of the
                    road by the Seney Syndicate, a process begun in 1881 and completed in 1882. Toward the original
                    builders Mr. Hampton is favorably inclined; typical of his evaluation of them is the following
                    (pages 17–18): "The Nickel Plate Road was no unsound, highly speculative scheme
                    conceived by inexperienced promoters in a moment of flighty desire. It was a sound, legitimate
                    enterprise organized by men of position, influence, and means, who had successfully built and
                    operated other railroads." Nor does he find, as some writers have suggested, that the
                    Nickel Plate was built to blackmail William H. Vanderbilt or Jay Gould. Instead, he sides with the
                    Seney Syndicate as against Vanderbilt (who purchased the road from the Syndicate in 1882) and
                    concedes only "that the road was built to sell" (page 150). Thus he dissents in
                    part from the opinion of such previous authorities as John Moody, who states flatly (in The Railroad Builders, 
                        New Haven
                    , Yale University Press, 1920, page 35): "This road … had been
                    constructed with the hope of ultimately selling out to its competitor."
            The remaining half of the book is divided into three parts, built around the 
                        New York
                     Central, VanSweringen, and Young regimes. Toward William H. Vanderbilt the author is
                    inclined to accept the somewhat unfriendly attitude of the former's contemporaries rather
                    than the revisionist attitude of John Moody, Matthew Josephson, and others. Concluding that the
                    Nickel Plate "did not prosper under 
                        New York
                     Central control" (page 203), he buttresses his statement with statistical
                    detail. Even more detail goes into his evaluation of the VanSweringen brothers of 
                        Cleveland
                    ,  whose control of the Nickel Plate
                    (1916–1936) he regards highly. This family added two important lines to the system: the
                            
                  Toledo, St.
                        Louis
                and Western (Clover Leaf) and the Lake Erie and Western, whose
                    involved histories are traced with great care.
            After this very full account of the railroad to 1937, the "Young Era" receives only
                    one chapter of nine pages. It is true, of course, that the Nickel Plate has been only one of the
                    Young roads; probably some of the recent records are still in active use and not available for
                    historical research; no doubt a writer so close to the controversial events in which Mr. Young has
                    been involved is limited to tentative conclusions. Nevertheless, Mr. Hampton's book appears
                    to be an approximation of a semi-official history of the railroad; for example, the introduction is
                    written by its president, Mr. John W. Davin. Then why should the author be so modest about Mr.
                    Young's achievement? Mr. Hampton's clientele will probably wish to learn more of
                    such omitted or abbreviated developments as Mr. Young's efforts to free his railroads from
                    the control of Eastern investment banks; of his concern for the rights of small investors and of his
                    workers; of the many conveniences he installed for passengers and shippers; of his bolt from the
                    Association of American Railroads and his formation of the Federation for Railway Progress; and of
                    his famous campaign for through train service at 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , popularized by the slogan "A Hog Can Cross the Country Without Changing
                    Trains—But You Can't."
            Mr. Hampton lists in his bibliography twenty-five libraries, more than three-score newspapers and
                    periodicals, and private records of the railroad. He has documented and indexed his work well.
                    Railroad fans will enjoy the numerous illustrations.
            
               West 
                            Virginia
                         University William D. Barns
         
         
            
               The Dixie Frontier, A Social History of the Southern Frontier from the First
                        Transmontane Beginnings to the Civil War. By Everett Dick. (
                        New York
                    , Alfred A. Knopf, 1948, pp. xx, 374, xxv. Illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    $4.50.)
            This work is the third volume of the author which treats frontier history. The two earlier ones are
                        The Sod-House
                    
                    Frontier (1937) and Vanguards of the Frontier (1941). Although
                    both of these were concerned with the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West, he is not a newcomer to the frontier field.
            The nature of the work is indicated by the subjects treated. They include the squatter, station life,
                    the planter, land greed, the slave as a pioneer, agriculture, sports, amusement, the frontier town,
                    schools, religion, travel, justice, politics, manufactures, militia, women, food, dress, speech, and
                    frontier characteristics. There are thirty-two chapters which average approximately ten pages to the
                    chapter.
            The chief significance of the present volume is not the newness of the material presented or the
                    analytical or philosophical conclusions of the author, but rather the availability and the
                    completeness of the material brought together. Most informed readers will be familiar with much of
                    the facts, but there will be few who will not learn some new details. Many will know of other works
                    which describe some of the customs and institutions here treated, but none will likely know of
                    another volume which includes so much. Its value will be greater for the general reader and the
                    beginning student in frontier history and correspondingly less for the advanced student.
            The main objection to the procedure of the author is the lack of any analytical approach. The Dixie
                    Frontier as considered in this volume was not a single frontier but a series of frontiers. It could
                    have been differentiated chronologically and geographically. Conditions differed north of the 
                        Ohio
                     from those of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     and these in turn from the lower South. Similar differences existed between the
                    Appalachian plateau and the trans-
                        Mississippi
                    . Conditions immediately following the Revolution had changed by the time the steamboats
                    were moving up and down the 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     and their tributaries. The frontier influence in the South was often quickly lessened
                    by the appearance of the plantation, but north of the 
                        Ohio
                     it was able to hold its own. The author chose to give a generalized picture which
                    ignores these distinctions. The need for comparative studies remains.
            The book has an interesting descriptive style. It should make good collateral reading for college and
                    high school students and should be entertaining for many others. There are relatively few errors of
                    fact or slips in proof reading.  The thirty-four page
                    bibliography contains a very considerable amount of material and should be valuable to scholars.
                    Individual documents rather than collections are listed, but the items are not evaluated for the
                    reader. The format of the book is attractive.
            
               Indiana University John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               Education and Reform at 
                            New Harmony
                        , Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos Fretageot,
                    1820–1833. Edited by Arthur E. Bestor, Jr. Volume XV, Number 3, of the Indiana
                    Historical Society Publications. (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana Historical Society, 1948, pp. 133. Index. $1.00 paperbound.)
            William Maclure joined Robert Owen's 
                        New Harmony
                     venture largely because he saw, in Owen's liberalism, a good proving ground
                    for his educational theories. The two men had strong convictions that there was need for educational
                    reform. Robert Owen would use the schools of the community to develop citizens who could live in a
                    selfless, cooperative society. Maclure's chief interest was the further development of
                    industrial and vocational education. Maclure had, when he came to 
                        New Harmony
                     a long record of interest in, and support of, educational experiments both in 
                        America
                     and in 
                        Spain
                    . He had brought two of the foremost teachers of the Pestalozzian Method for 
                        Paris
                     to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where he had established them in schools. These two teachers, Joseph Neef and Madame
                    Marie Duclos Fretageot came on to 
                        New Harmony
                     to teach in the Owen community schools.
            The correspondence between William Maclure and Madame Fretageot, preserved in the 
                        New Harmony
                     library and edited by Dr. Bestor, begins with the letters written in 1820, when Maclure
                    was in 
                        Switzerland
                     and Madame Fretageot was teaching in 
                        Paris
                    . Within a year, she had moved her school to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where she remained until Owen and Maclure joined forces to come to Indiana. From the
                    first, the letters reveal enthusiasm for Owen's ideas on Madame Fretageot's part
                    and a feeling of caution and reservation on Maclure's part. In fact, one feels that Maclure
                    joined the experiment reluctantly, and that he did not, from the first, share Owen's
                    beliefs that the experiment would  make over the world. Robert
                    Owen is quoted in one letter as telling Madame Fretageot that "I would [he said] devote 30
                    years of my life where I now am [in 
                        Philadelphia
                    ] without being able to counterbalance the evils which surround my pupils." The
                    freedom of the frontier, in the West, would soften the prejudices of the Old World, and the older
                    sections of America forward new ideas. William Maclure's decision to join up with Owen
                    involved the transfer of his scientific work in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , as well as his educational efforts, and the Keelboat
                    "Philanthropist" came down the 
                        Ohio
                     late in 1825, with a distinguished list of passengers including eminent teachers,
                    scientists, and artists. In the group were Owen, Maclure, Madame Fretageot, Phiquepal
                    d'Arusmont, a Pestalozzian teacher from 
                        Paris
                     and protege of Maclure, Thomas Say, a brilliant young scientist, Charles Lesuer, Robert
                    Dale Owen and others. The uneasy partnership between Owen and Maclure was launched.
            Maclure's interests in business and science and a state of ill health, which led him to seek
                    warmer climates, often kept him constantly in and out of 
                        New Harmony
                    . His stays there were never very long. He made Madame Fretageot his secretary and
                    business agent. He depended upon her to advance the schools, according to his theories, and to
                    supervise the expenditures of money, which he had put into the partnership with Robert Owen. Their
                    letters over the years of the active life of the Owen community, 1826–1827, and later,
                    when the community was dissolved, reveal the friction between the ideas of the two men. Their
                    theories of education, never in harmony from the first, grew further apart and Owen set up his own
                    schools and teachers for a time. Maclure set off the Education Society, as a separate unit, and
                    there Madame Fretageot did a superwoman's job of running the boarding school, teaching long
                    hours, cooking, caring for the clothes of the children and the housing and gardens, as well as her
                    financial duties as Maclure's agent. Finally the break between Owen and Maclure became
                    absolute, and a legal division of their property interests in 
                        New Harmony
                     was made.
            Madame Fretageot remained in 
                        New Harmony
                     to supervise the work of establishing Maclure's School of Industry, and the
                    setting up of his scientific press "coordinating research, engraving, printing and hand
                    coloring." A newspaper 
                    The Disseminator of Useful Knowledge was published by the School of Industry. By
                    the close of 1827, the Owen experiment had vanished and the work which remained was
                    Maclure's. The aim of social reform now was definitely committed to use educational means.
            In December, 1828, Maclure sought the milder climate of Mexico for his health, and he remained there
                    until his death in 1840. Madame Fretageot left 
                        New Harmony
                     for 
                        Paris
                     in 1831, and, after a year's stay there, returned to the New World to visit
                    Maclure in 
                        Mexico
                    . She died there in 1833.
            Dr. Bestor has, by his publication of this correspondence, thrown additional light on the controversy
                    between Owen and Maclure. The letters reveal the practical wit of Maclure and his belief that the
                    test of validity for any system of education is whether it produced citizens who are self-reliant
                    and self-sustaining.
            The author has quoted extensively from contemporary accounts of the experiment. The work is well
                    edited. There are full comments and excellent transitional materials, which aid the reader in
                    understanding matters referred to in the letters.
            The publication of these letters makes available another important source on the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment.
            
               
                  
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana Helen Elliott
         
         
            
               Horns of Thunder, The Life and Times of James M. Goodhue Including Selections From
                        His Writings. By Mary Wheelhouse Berthel. (
                  St.
                        Paul, Minnesota
                Historical
                    Society, 1948, pp. xii, 276. Illustrations, map, and index. $3.00.)
            A hundred years ago many Americans were leaving the Mississippi Valley to seek
                    the gold of 
                        California
                    . But other pioneers were giving their attention to the thinly settled areas of the
                    Middle West. The year 1849, famed for the Gold Rush, was also marked by the organization of 
                        Minnesota
                     Territory. This book deals with the early days of that new territory, and with a man
                    who helped build 
                        Minnesota
                    : James Madison Goodhue, a pioneer 
                        St. Paul
                     journalist.
            Goodhue was not a great success, as Americans generally use that word. Born and raised in 
                        New England
                    , he was an  indifferent student at Amherst. After
                    graduation (class of 1833), he drifted west. "To supply his want of means," he
                    farmed in 
                        Illinois
                    . Then he practiced law in the 
                        Wisconsin
                     lead region. There he married a young school teacher. Shifting to journalism, he became
                    an influential (but not prosperous) editor. When the Gold Rush came, many of Good-hue's
                    lead mining neighbors went to 
                        California
                    . Preferring to remain in the Mississippi Valley, Goodhue went
                    instead to 
                        Minnesota
                     Territory. There, in the territorial capital of 
                        St. Paul
                    , he launched the 
                  
                            Minnesota
                         Pioneer, which he ran from 1849 until his death in 1852, at the early age of
                    forty-two.
            Many Western pioneers lived lives more exciting than Goodhue's. Many accomplished more than
                    did this journalist. But the bulk of the early settlers of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and 
                        Minnesota
                     allowed their experiences to go unrecorded. Good-hue, on the other hand, was highly
                    articulate; and, unlike many frontier editors, he filled his columns with local items. His paper,
                    therefore, became a mirror of his region, and his story has value for all interested in the
                    settlement of the Great Lakes area.
            Mrs. Berthel, the competent and careful author of this volume, is well aware that Goodhue is more
                    important as a witness than as a participant in events. Hence, after sketching the editor's
                    career, she devotes most of the volume to reprinting pieces from the Pioneer. The
                    selections are well chosen, and their value is increased by excellent illustrations.
            This is local history. Some will say that James Madison Goodhue had no national importance, and that
                    none but confirmed Minnesotans will be interested in quotations from a 
                        St. Paul
                     newspaper of 1849–1852. But those of us who believe in state history look at
                    it in another way. We feel that the lives of the great national figures tell only part of the story.
                    We feel that those who write our national history in the future will find much of value in books
                    like this, books which deal with local subjects of national significance.
            
               University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                Fred Harvey Harrington
         
         
            
               Peter Norbeck: 
                            Prairie
                         Statesman. By Gilbert Courtland Fite. Volume XXII, No. 2, of the University of 
                        Missouri
                    
                    
                    Studies. (
                        Columbia
                    , University of 
                        Missouri
                    , 1948, pp. 217. Illustrations, bibliography, index, and portrait of Peter Norbeck
                    frontispiece. $2.50.)
            A newcomer to South Dakota soon hears of Peter Norbeck (1870–1936), and so pronounced are
                    the comments that he may at first believe "Old Pete" to be still alive. For the
                    broad shoulders, thick necked 240 pound well driller who preached a philosophy of liberalism and
                    hard work in an incorruptible Norwegian accent left an imprint. His biography has a significance,
                    however, that is broader than his home state, for it illuminates the rural side of the Progressive
                    Era and because Norbeck's sixteen years as United States senator supplies the author with
                    an opportunity to write an excellent summary of recent agricultural history. This is a professional
                    job by a practicing historian—meaning that it is an unadorned, honest account written
                    according to the standards of scientific history. A clear style is marred only by too obvious and
                    frequent attempts to achieve variety by use of short exclamatory sentences.
            From a boyhood that might have been lifted from Ole Rölvaag's novels of
                    Scandinavian pioneer life, young Peter Norbeck turned to artesian well drilling with phenomenal
                    success. In 1906 he entered politics as a Progressive Republican, his Scandinavian origin,
                    acquaintance among the farmers, and business success making him a valuable recruit. Consequently, he
                    rose rapidly from state senator to governor, serving two terms in the latter office from 1917 to
                    1921.
            Though a bitter foe of the Nonpartisan League, he adopted part of its program by putting the state
                    into business to the extent of rural credits, hail insurance, a coal mine, and cement factory. Rural
                    credits failed completely and will cost the taxpayers $57,000,000 by the time the last
                    bonds are retired in 1960. Judgment of the hail insurance and coal mine depends chiefly upon whether
                    they are viewed from a financial or regulatory basis. By setting the price of the plant's
                    products at the regular market price, the cement factory has been an unqualified and continuing
                    success.
            Elected to the United States Senate in 1920 as a Theodore Roosevelt Republican, he became a
                    consistent supporter of farm legislation aimed at surplus control. In turn, Norbeck worked for the
                    Farmer's Export Corporation, McNary-  Haugen Bill,
                    domestic allotment plans, and the A.A.A., but opposed the Agricultural Marketing Act.
            A summary judgment of Norbeck must place on the debit side his articulate belief in the special worth
                    of the Teutonic people, his inconsistencies in foreign affairs, and an apparent willingness to
                    provide relief for the farmers at the expense of other economic groups. As to his experimental
                    economic measures, one can agree with author Fite that evaluation will be measured "by the
                    same yardstick that future historians will apply to the New Deal in general." Clearly on
                    the credit side was the undoubted sincerity of his efforts. Likewise, he had been the agent of
                    industrialism that reduced the cost of the average artesian well from about four thousand dollars to
                    four hundred dollars. As a conservationist he founded Custer State Park while governor and in the
                    senate championed all measures to preserve public lands, create national parks, and protect
                    migratory wild fowl. He secured federal appropriations for the completion of Mount Rushmore Memorial
                    and was personally responsible for the inclusion of his Bull Moose leader among the sculptered
                    heads. Happy but tiring days were spent clambering through the Black Hills with the engineers to
                    insure that highways leading to the Needles and over Iron Mountain follow scenic rather than
                    scientific routes. Norbeck would probably be surprised, but not necessarily regretful, that the
                    South Dakotans are yearly placing greater stress upon his work for the Hills and less upon his
                    political activity.
            
               University of South Dakota Cedric Cummins
         
         
            
               The Territorial Papers of the United States. Compiled and edited by Clarence
                    Edwin Carter. Volume XIII, The Territory of 
                            Louisiana
                        -
                            Missouri
                        , 1803–1806. (Washington, Government Printing Office, 1948, pp. xi,
                    641. Index. $3.50.)
            This is the first of three volumes on the 
                        Louisiana
                    -
                        Missouri
                     Territory. It is divided into three parts: (1) "Papers relating to the
                    Foundations of the Territory of 
                        Louisiana
                    -
                        Missouri
                    , 1803–1804"; (2) "Papers relating to the District of 
                        Louisiana
                    , 1804–1805"; and (3) "Papers relating to the
                    Administration of Governor Wilkinson, 1805–1806." Part One, less than fifty
                    pages, covers the period from the  beginning of preparations for
                    the occupation of the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase to October 1, 1804, when the Act of Congress of March 26, 1804, became
                    effective; Part Two, about one hundred pages, relates to the period during which the District of 
                        Louisiana
                     was attached to the Indiana Territory, October 1, 1804-July 4, 1805; and Part Three,
                    over four hundred pages, deals with the period from July 4, 1805, when the Act of Congress of March
                    3, 1805, which created the separate Territory of 
                        Louisiana
                    , to the time when Governor James Wilkinson was ordered to the southwestern frontier
                    because of the developments in the Burr Conspiracy and the threatened invasion by Spanish military
                    forces from 
                        Texas
                    . During the first period, all the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase was nominally governed from 
                        New Orleans
                     by William C. C. Claiborne; during the second period Governor William Henry Harrison of
                    the Indiana Territory exercised jurisdiction over the District of 
                        Louisiana
                    ; and during the third period the Territory of 
                        Louisiana
                     was under a separate territorial administration.
            Military affairs are represented by instructions and orders to various officers for occupying the
                    posts in Upper 
                        Louisiana
                    ; plans for forwarding necessary supplies for the troops in the new posts; quarrels with
                    the civil authorities over the exercise of military jurisdiction; and dissatisfaction of the regular
                    army officers stationed in the territory over their pay, which was not sufficient to meet the high
                    cost of living in their new locations. Indian affairs are covered by numerous documents on
                    appointment of Indian agents; the problem of establishing suitable trading posts and factories for
                    supplying American goods to the Indians, and the exclusion of British Canadian traders from the
                    region; and the making of treaties with various tribes in the region.
            There are materials on the expedition of Lewis and Clark up the Missouri River,
                    and of Lieutenant Z. M. Pike to the headwaters of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , with reports on their progress. Introduction and expansion of the postal system in the
                    Territory is reflected in numerous documents. There are requests from Congress for information on
                    the lead mines, and from individuals seeking information on various conditions, many of them
                    prospective settlers.
            Political items are numerous. There are recommendations by politicians of applicants seeking federal
                    appointments in the Territory, most of whom made an office a condition  precedent to their removal to the region; documents reflecting the
                    dissatisfaction of the inhabitants with the form of government provided by Congress for them, and on
                    the jealousy between the American and French residents over the control of territorial affairs—
                        St. Louis
                     vs. the districts farther to the south. The controversy between Governor Wilkinson and
                    the grand jury over the appointment of an attorney-general is revealed at length, as is the movement
                    to set up a representative elective assembly to direct the affairs of the District. There are
                    voluminous petitions favoring and opposing Governor Wilkinson's confirmation by the United
                    States Senate, and in favor of his retention as governor when the rumor spread that he was about to
                    be removed; and there is a lengthy petition in favor of the appointment of Secretary Joseph Browne
                    as Wilkinson's successor after the Governor had been ordered to the southwestern frontier.
            Much space is occupied by documents relating to the public lands. There are the appointments of
                    surveyors and commissioners for the investigation and adjustment of land titles and claims; the
                    problems confronting the commissioners because of the inaccuracy of the old Spanish surveys and the
                    different interpretation placed upon the provisions of the Act of Congress for handling the land
                    question in the territory; the problem of squatters on the public lands; the government's
                    policy with respect to the lead mines; and popular discontent over many of the decisions of the
                    commissioners in confirming or rejecting various land claims.
            There is much material on appointments to offices, ranging from governor down to justices of the
                    peace, and including both civil and military positions. The long list of appointments made by
                    Governor Wilkinson, dated July 4, 1806, gives a clue to most of the leading citizens in the various
                    districts of the territory. This list, when used in conjunction with the numerous signatures to
                    petitions and memorials, is a veritable mine of information for the local historian and the
                    genealogist.
            While not so meaty as some of the previous volumes in the series, the volume under review makes
                    readily available a vast amount of formerly inaccessible source material. The editor has done a very
                    good job in deciphering the troublesome signatures appended to the petitions and memorials. The
                    adequate index of sixty-six pages lists all important  matters
                    in the volume. All in all, the volume reflects the excellent work of the editor.
            
               
                  
                            Louisiana
                         State University Walter Prichard
         
         
            
               The Rural Press and the New South. By Thomas H. Clark. (
                  Baton Rouge, Louisiana
                State University Press, 1948, pp. xi, 111. $2.00.)
            Since 1938, 
                        Louisiana
                     State University has followed the practice of inviting outstanding Southern historians
                    to present a series of lectures in honor of the late Walter Lynwood Fleming. The lecturer for 1947
                    was Thomas D. Clark of the University of 
                        Kentucky
                     and his subject was "The Rural Press and the New South." The lectures
                    have subsequently appeared in book form as published by Louisiana State University Press.
            Professor Clark, whose full-length study of The Southern Country Editor appeared
                    recently (The Bobbs-Merrill Company, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1948), demonstrated clearly in his lectures the importance of the rural editor in the
                    study of the cultural history of the South. Country editors necessarily were
                    "toms-of-many-Tinkers." Frequently unlettered, these men were forced to pour forth
                    reams of sage advice on education, politics, farm finance, and a myriad of other subjects. At the
                    same time they must scrupulously recognize the importance of public relations by personalizing the
                    news and setting it to the standards of rural communities. Setting his own type, soliciting
                    advertisements, and collecting from delinquent subscribers were all in a day's work for the
                    average editor.
            Professor Clark's lectures were at their best in describing the highly personalized
                    character of the average country weekly. Frequent use of names, the sometimes irresponsible
                    reporting of idle gossip, the relation of folklore, and the reporting of freaks of nature, all
                    indicated that the rural paper was often ordinary conversation set to print.
            The present writer, however, wishes that the lectures might have given more space to the breaks in
                    unanimity among the press, particularily in the political sphere. Southern editors did not all agree
                    on politics even during the period of Reconstruction, and the Populist period saw the establishment
                    of a National Reform Press Association  that soon counted in its
                    membership numerous Southern editors who did not even have to change the crossings of their
                    t's to fit comfortably into the press program of the Populist party (e.g., Frank Burkitt of
                    the Okolona, 
                        Mississippi
                    , Chickasaw Messenger). These editors might have been in the minority,
                    but they too played a part in influencing the society of the South.
            The author presents interesting information on the extent to which advertising (especially of patent
                    medicines) and political printing kept editorial pens still on controversial subjects. The
                    restraining hand of personal violence as a limitation on a free press might have received
                    elaboration. It was not at all rare for outspoken editors to face death at the hands of an outraged
                    opponent. Within a year's time (1886–1887) two Jackson, 
                        Mississippi
                    , "reform" editors were killed after writing stormy editorials
                    affecting state politics.
            Only one lapse in editorial work (p. 53) caught the eye of the reviewer. The book is attractively
                    printed and bound. Professor Clark has added another valuable work to his lengthy list of studies in
                    the social history of the South.
            
               Millsaps College James S. Ferguson
         
         
            
               The State Historical Society of 
                            Missouri
                        . A Semicentennial History. By Floyd C. Shoemaker (
                        Columbia
                    , State Historical Society of 
                        Missouri
                    , 1948, pp. 193. Illustrations, bibliography, and index. $3.50.)
            The development of historical societies in the United States varies from state to state, with no two
                    states following the same pattern. Few if any of the societies have set down the history of their
                    organization and development in as detailed a form as 
                        Missouri
                     has done in this semicentennial volume prepared by its secretary.
            The historical society movement was inaugurated by 
                        Massachusetts
                     in 1791, and within the next fifty years some sixty-five societies came into existence. 
                        Missouri
                    , along with other states of the Middle West, organized a historical society during this
                    period but it was shortlived and came to an end with the death of its first president in 1849. It
                    was almost fifty years later, in 1898, that the 
                        Missouri
                     Press Association launched the present society.
            The decision to locate the headquarters of the society on the campus of the state university at 
                        Columbia
                     has played  an important part in the
                    society's development. First housed in temporary quarters, its offices and collections were
                    moved into the new university library in 1915. By close co-operation the university and society have
                    been able to avoid duplication in building up their collections, thus permitting the latter to
                    concentrate on Missouriana and historical sources for the Middle and Far West. The society has
                    likewise drawn on the university for leadership and personnel, but men and women of other
                    professions and the amateur historians and collectors have also played an important part in the
                    development of the organization throughout its existence.
            Another important step was taken by the society in 1899 whereby it became the trustee of the state of 
                        Missouri
                    , holding all its property in trust for the state. Two years later the society received
                    its first appropriation from state funds and has continued to receive state support. This action
                    also led to the removal of the state archives to the society's library in 1911 following
                    the disastrous fire at the state capitol.
            The society has published such documentary material as the Journal and Debates of the Constitutional Convention of 1873 and the Messages and
                        Proclamations of the Governors, and issues a quarterly magazine, the 
                  
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review. The latter includes articles of popular interest as well as
                    those of a scholarly nature. With over four thousand paid memberships, the 
                        Missouri
                     society takes the lead over all other historical organizations in this country. This
                    may be due in part to the low membership fee of $1.00 per year made possible by partial
                    state support. Comparing the situation in 
                        Missouri
                     with that in Indiana, the 
                        Missouri
                     society performs not only the same functions as the Indiana Historical Society but in
                    addition takes the place in part of the archives and Indiana divisions of the State Library and of
                    the Indiana Historical Bureau.
            In outlining the achievement of the 
                        Missouri
                     society, the author has not neglected to tell the story of the men who have guided its
                    destinies and brought it to its present preeminent position in its state and in the historical
                    world. Though written primarily for Missourians to inform them of the society's work, the
                    volume is a welcome addition to the literature of the historical society movement in this country.
            
               Indiana Historical Society Dorothy Riker
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Rogers-Ward-Shipman and Allied Families (cont'd)
            Contributed by Harold I. Meyer, Mrs. Sylvan L. Mouser, and Mrs. Voris R. Norton*
            
            
               X 1 Abbie Elizabeth Burgess, dau. of IX, 5; b. 1861; d. 1939; m. 1880, James Hughes Berry, b.
                        1851, 
                            Ohio
                        ; d. 1916; children: a, Marie Priscilla.
               2 Mattie Wise Burgess, dau. of IX, 5; missionary to India 1903; d. India; unmarried.
               3 Ida L. Burgess, dau. of IX, 5; m. — Laird; r. 
                     St. Joseph, Mo.
                  ; children: a, Thomas, b, may have been others.
               4 Thomas J. Burgess, Jr., s. of IX, 5; m. Annie Burden.
               5 James Thomas Wise, s. of IX, 12; b. 1865; d. 1931; m. 1890, Sarah E. Howard, b. 1874, living
                        Okla.; children: a, Netonia Edith, b, Lawrence A., c, Berdette O., d, Dewey Edison, e, Rowena
                        O., f, James Earle, g, Mary Oletha, h, Helen Maud, i, Howard O., j, Eldoris Louis, k, Naomi
                        Irene.
               6 Carolyn Wise, dau. of IX, 12; d. age 5.
               7 Cora Wise, dau. of IX, 12; know no more.
               8 James William Hays, s. of IX, 13; b. 1856; d. 1861.
               9 Anna M. Hays, dau. of IX, 13; b. 12–24–1857, New
                                
                     London, Mo.
                  ; d. 4–27–1926; m. 1st
                        4–24–1884, Samuel C. Downing; children: a, Casey; m. 2nd William Wood; no
                        children.
               10 Sarah 
                            Campbell
                         Hays, dau. of IX, 13; b. 11–11–1859, New
                                
                     London, Mo.
                  ; living New 
                            London
                        , 1948; m. 11–13–1878, Dr. Thomas Jefferson Downing, M.D., b.
                        5–26–1851, 
                            Pike
                         Co., Mo., d. 12–7–1930, New 
                            London
                        , s. of William Casey (4), James(3),
                            Ezekiel(2), John(1) Downing (see History of Northeast 
                                Missouri
                            
                  , III, 1562–1564); children: a, Thomas 
                            Campbell
                        , b, Mary, c, Marjorie Nell.
               11 Mary Margaret Hays, dau. of IX, 13; b. 3–1–1863, New 
                            London
                        , d. 10–15–1925, m. 12–19–1882, Judge
                        Reuben Finnell Roy, b. 1–7–1854, d. 1922 (see Who's
                            Who, 1906–1913); children: a, George, b, Ruth Margaret.
               12 George Edgar Hays, s. of IX, 13; b. New 
                     London, Mo.
                  ,
                        5–20–1865; d. 10–23–1945, Alton, Ill.; m.
                        11–11–1891, Jessie Ogle, b. 7–2–1871; children: a,
                        Mary Nell, b, William Ogle, c, George Edgar.
               13 Charles Thomas Hays, s. of IX, 13; b. 5–9–1869, New
                                
                     London, Mo.
                  ; Judge of 
                            Missouri
                         Supreme Court (see Who's Who, 1938–1943); m.
                        5–25–1897, Sarah Margaret Breashears; — 
                     
                        * Harold I. Meyer is a doctor in 
                           Chicago, Illinois
                        ; Mrs. Sylvan L. Mouser (née Evelyn Mae
                                Shipman) is a resident of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana; and Mrs. Voris R. Norton (née Marjorie Nell Downing)
                                is a resident of New 
                           London, Missouri
                        .
                  
                         children: a, Agnes, b, Margaret Ann, c, George 
                            Campbell
                        , 111, d, Charles Thomas, Jr.
               14 William M. Wise, s. of IX, 14; r. Blanchard, Okla.; m. —?; children: a, La Moin,
                        b, others names unknown.
               15 Maud May Wise, dau. of IX, 14; b. 6–7–1880; r. Seattle, Wash.; d.
                        8–16–1946, Seattle; m. 12–12–1897, William Chester
                        Kelsey, b. 1873, d. 10–6–1939; children: a, Edith Mildred, b, Fern Alice,
                        c, 
                            Chester
                         Lee, d, 
                            Marion
                            Denver
                        , e, Viola May, f, Waneta Maxine, g, Eonas James.
               16 Blanche E. Wise, dau. of IX, 14; r. 
                     Wichita, Kans.
                  ; m.
                        — Martin (or Marten); children: a, Roy Bromwell, b, & c, names unknown.
               17 Gabriella Rath, dau. of IX, 15; m. 1st Charles F. Brooker; children: a, Charles C., b,
                        Gladys, c, Robert B.; m. 2nd Marsh LaMaster.
               18 Charles Rath, s. of IX, 15; r. 
                     Wichita,
                                Kans.
                  ; m. 
                            Kans.
                        , 1945.
               19 Gabriella Wise, dau. of IX, 16; b. 1867, Antelope, 
                            Kans.
                        ; m. — Groat; r. 
                     Denver,
                                Colo.
                  
               
               20 Lola Wise, dau. of IX, 16; m. J. E. Mayberry; r. Lookeba, Okla.
               21 Molly Wise, dau. of IX, 16; m. — Huggins; r. Okla.
               22 Valentine Costello, s. of IX, 17; m. —?; r. Calif.; had children.
               23 Virgie M. Wimer, dau. of IX, 21; b. 8–3–1861; m. — Kempin;
                        r. 
                            St. Louis
                        .
               24 Sallie Eyle Wimer, dau. of IX, 21; b. 11–4–1866; m. —
                        Dougesse; r. 
                     Springfield, Ill.
                  
               
               25 Alberta B. Wimer, dau. of IX, 21; b. 4–10–1870; m. — 
                            Fulton
                        ; r. 
                            St. Louis
                        .
               26 Mary Florence Wimer, dau. of IX, 21; b. 3–23–1873; m. —
                        Reed; r. 
                     Marion, Kans.
                  
               
               27 John William Wimer, s. of IX, 21; b. 3–31–1875; r. 
                            St. Louis
                        .
               28 Abbie Irene Wimer, dau. of IX, 21; b. 2–5–1877; r. 
                            St. Louis
                        .
               29 Ralph Wimer, s. of IX, 21; b. 1–2–1880; r. 
                     Marion, Kans.
                  
               
               30 Emma Grace Wimer, dau. of IX, 21; b. 3–7–1883; r. 
                     Marion, Kans.
                  
               
               31 Caroline May 
                            Campbell
                        , dau. of IX, 23; b. 
                     Marion,
                                Kans.
                  ,
                        5–10–1880; d. 5–13–1937, Port Orchard, Wash.; m.
                        1900, W. Claude Tremaine, Newton, 
                            Kans.
                        , divorced 1903; children: a, Lewis Clyde, b, Walter Eugene; m. 2nd
                        7–8–1904, Waterville, Wash., Walter F. Smith; children: c, Jennie Ethel,
                        d, Julia Mable. (He m. 2nd Lillie Bell 
                            Campbell
                        , see X, 33.)
               32 Hattie Alice 
                            Campbell
                        , dau. of IX, 23; b. 2–6–1883, Elmdale, 
                            Kans.
                        ; (killed in accident with sister see X, 35), buried
                        5–26–1947, Stockton, Calif.; m. 1st 1905, Thomas Macklin, divorced; no
                        children; m. 2nd 4–22–1912, Tacoma, Wash., Charles D. Raymer; no children
                        (had an adopted child only).
               33 Lillie Bell 
                            Campbell
                        , dau. of IX, 23; b. Florence, 
                            Kans.
                        , 7–2–1885; m. Newton, 
                            Kans.
                        , 7–15–1904, W. Claude Tremaine;  children: a, Harry Claude, b, Josie Ellen. (His 1st wife was
                        Caroline May 
                            Campbell
                        , see X, 31.)
               34 Lewis Guy 
                            Campbell
                        , s. of IX, 23; b. Florence, 
                            Kans.
                        , 4–23–1887; m. Waterville, Wash.,
                        8–9–1910, Minnie Jane Gunkle, b. 12–21–1892, near
                        Lebanon, Mo.; children: a, Leitha May, b, Myrtle Fay, c, Lillie Imogene.
               35 Iva Leona 
                            Campbell
                        , dau. of IX, 23; b. Florence, 
                            Kans.
                        , 2–6–1889; d. in auto accident, buried
                        5–26–1947, Stockton, Calif. (see X, 32 sister who was in same accident);
                        m. 
                     Kansas City, Mo.
                  , 12–31–1906, Raymond Waldo Lytle, b.
                        Hiawatha, 
                            Kans.
                        , 8–9–1887; children: a, Raymond Otho, b, Elva Ann, c, Alice
                        Eugenia, d, Julia Theresa; divorced 11–5–1931; m. 2nd
                        11–5–1932, Henry Alta Walters.
               36 Eugene 
                            Franklin
                        
                        
                            Campbell
                        , s. of IX, 23; b. Florence, 
                            Kans.
                        , 4–7–1891; m. 4–17–1912, Fall River,
                        Mass., Regina Maria DuBois, b. 2–18–1892; children: a, Regina Delphine
                        Elva.
               37 Beatrice Bigelow, dau. of IX, 36; b. 8–16–1868; d.
                        11–25–1868, 
                            Knightstown
                        , Ind.
               38 Hervey Humphrey, s. of IX, 37; b. 1–15–1873, 
                            Knightstown
                        , Ind.; d. —?
               39 Ralph Lincoln Shipman, s. of IX, 40; b. 6–30–1914, 
                            Knightstown
                        , Ind.; living there; unmarried; in World War 11.
               40 Clara Shipman, dau. of IX, 41; b. c. 1859, 
                            Cleveland
                        , Ind.
               41 Harry Walton, s. of IX, 60; know no more.
               42 Ralph (Duward?) Cummings, s. of IX, 61; d. infancy.
               43 William Cummings, s. of IX, 61; r. West; m. Della —? had children.
               44 Maud Cummings, dau. of IX, 61; d. 
                            St. Louis
                         Mo.; m. Harry Wheeler; 1 son.
               45 Charles Gardner Teegarden, s. of IX, 62; changed name to maiden name of mother and became
                        Charles Gardner; r. Great Neck, N.Y.
               46 Marian Teegarden, dau. of IX, 62; m. Mr. — Uhleman, N.Y.C.; no children.
               47 Thurza Teegarden, dau. of IX, 62; d. age 25, buried Teegarden lot, Ferncliff Cem.,
                                
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  .
               48 Mabel Lee Arthur, dau. of IX, 63; b. 12–23–1873,
                                
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; d. 3–29–1918, 
                            Benton
                         Harbor, Mich.; m. 1–12–1898, Alpha Rosser Glass, 
                            Springfield
                        , b. 9–10–1868, Washington Court House, 
                            Ohio
                        , living, s. of Preston R. Glass and Phebe Ann Wood; children: a, Arthur Preston, b,
                        Robert Lee.
               49 Ethel Lome Arthur, dau. of IX, 63; b. 11–9–1878,
                                
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; living; m. 6–14–1905, George
                        H. Slaughter, 
                            Springfield
                        , b. 2–21–1880, South 
                     Charleston, Ohio
                  ,
                        living 
                            Benton
                         Harbor, Mich.; children: a, George Watson, b, Joseph Hudson, e, Robert Remus, f,
                        Arthur Romulus.
               50 Grace I. Arthur, dau. of IX, 63; b. 7–18–1880, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; living; m. 10–18–1906, William Henry Graham,
                        M.D., 
                            Springfield
                        , b. 6–18–1875, Circleville, 
                            Ohio
                        , d. 4–13–1943, 
                            Springfield
                        , buried Teegarden lot, Ferncliff Cem.; children:  a, Jean Irene, b, Frances Mae, c, William Henry, 11, d, Eleanor Anne.
               51 Alfred 
                            Campbell
                        , s. of IX, 64; b. 8–9–1876, d.
                        7–13–1903, 
                            St. Louis
                        ; unmarried.
               52 Watson Campbell, s. of IX, 64; b. 1878; d. 1884, 
                     San
                                Francisco, Calif.
                  
               
               53 Myra 
                            Campbell
                        , dau. of IX, 64; b. 5–12–1881; d.
                        9–12–1931; m. — Stewart, 
                            London
                        , England; no children.
               54 Eleanor 
                            Campbell
                        , dau. of IX, 64; b. 1–11–1884; living Round Hill, Va.; m.
                        Walter S. Fox, 
                            La Porte
                        , Ind.
               55 Ethel Test, dau. of IX, 69; d. 6–12–1945, 
                            Asheville
                        , N.C.; m. Alexander Kennedy. (See D.A.C. #6,379, D.C.W. #2,030, D.A.R. #337,595.)
               56 Edna Test, dau. of IX, 69; m. — Marshall; r. 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  .
               57 May Beeson, dau. of IX, 71; b. c. 1876; r. Patoka, Ind.; m. —?
               58 Barbara Jean Lovall, dau. of IX, 77; b. 6–20–1916, Hopkins, Mich.; d.
                        6–20–1916, there.
               59 John Brenton Lovall, d. of IX, 77; b. 12–10–1918, Grand Rapids,
                        Mich.; d. 11–12–1914, Hopkins, Mich.
               60 Evelyn Norma Lovall, dau. of IX, 78; b. 4–23–1916, Hopkins, Mich.;
                        living Grand Rapids; m. 11–7–1942, Lawrence Dean Potts, Grand Rapids, b.
                        5–13–1913; children: a, Judith Evelyn, b, Daniel Lawrence.
               61 Oliver Edmund Lovall, s. of IX, 78; b. 9–24–1919, Hopkins, Mich.;
                        living there; Navy World War 11; m. 10–10–1940, Vivian Ida McBride,
                        Hopkins, Mich., b. 4–4–1921; children: a, Linda Lou, b, Jo Ann.
               62 Samuel Burl Lovall, s. of IX, 78; b. 1–7–1923, Hopkins, Mich.; living
                        Grand Rapids, Mich.; Navy World War 11; unmarried.
               63 Roger Berdelman, s. of IX, 81; r. 
                     Los
                            Angeles, Calif.
                  
               
               64 Ethel Hazel Kelker, dau. of IX, 84; b. 7–8–1891; living Lansing,
                        Mich.; m. 10–4–1936, Nicholas J. Miller.
               65 Henrietta Kelker, dau. of IX, 84; b. 2–18–1898; m. 1st Hershel Colby;
                        children: a, George, b, Robert; m. 2nd Donald Plye; no children; m. 3rd Herbert Young; children:
                        c, Gloria Jane.
               66 Willis E. Martin, s. of IX, 86; r. Calif.
               67 A. W. Ermintinger, s. of IX, 86; r. Honcut, Calif.
               68 Leon F. Ermintinger, s. of IX, 86; r. Honcut, Calif.
               69 Rodney Ermintinger, s. of IX, 86; r. Honcut, Calif.
               70 Elmer Ermintinger, s. of IX, 86; r. Honcut, Calif.
               71 David Langston, s. of IX, 87; b. 7–19–1926, 
                            Decatur
                        , Ind.; living there; 8th Air Force World War 11; unmarried.
               72 Alice Langston, dau. of IX, 87; b. 11–11–1931, 
                            Decatur
                        , Ind.
               73 Audrey Louise Thompson, dau. of IX, 88; b. 2–2–1910; d.
                        3–6–1910.
               74 Charles Arthur Thompson, s. of IX, 88; b. 5–19–1911, Cold-water,
                        Mich.; r. there; m. 5–5–1932, Angola, Ind., Margaret  Anderson; children: a, Jacqueline Lee, h, Jo Ann, c, Barbara Lou,
                        d, name not known.
               75 Kenneth Howard Passe, s. of IX, 89; b. 11–26–1919; r. Seattle, Wash.;
                        m. Mary Jean Anderson, b. 11–6–1922; children: a, Kenneth Howard, 11.
               76 Charles William Passe, s. of IX, 89; b. 4–7–1921; r. Seattle, Wash.;
                        m. 8–30–1944, Barbara Olsen, b. 7–2–1925.
               77 Phyllis Marie Passe, dau. of IX, 89; b. 3–11–1923; r. Seattle, Wash.;
                        m. 3–17–1942, Seattle, James Frederick Leitheiser, b.
                        10–25–1920.
               78 Harold William Smith, s. of IX, 90; b. 2–27–1922, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; r.
                        there; unmarried.
               79 Joseph Edward Smith, s. of IX, 90; b. 3–8–1928, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; r.
                        there; unmarried.
               80 Emily Pearl Foster, dau. of IX, 95; b. 12–23–1884, Stanley, Ind.; d.
                        5–15–1942, Boonville, Ind.; m. 9–1–1901, Boonville,
                        Stephen Thomas Goad, b. 1–3–1882, Boonville, d.
                        12–30–1946, there, s. of Alva Goad and Agnas Day; children: a, Ernest, b,
                        Lucille, c, Henry, d, Opal.
               81 Gus Foster, s. of IX, 95; d. Youngstown, 
                            Ohio
                        .
               82 Raymond Foster, s. of IX, 95; b. Boonville, Ind.; d. Liver-more, Calif.; unmarried.
               83 Rita Ethel Foster, dau. of IX, 95; b. 8–30–1890, Boonville, Ind.;
                        living Clanton, Ala.; m. 1st 9–29–1909, Claude Critch-field, b.
                        9–12–1890, Birdseye, Ind., d. —?, s. of Michael Critchfield and
                        Mollie Allen; children: a, Jack Floyd; m. 2nd 12–20–1929, Carl Augustine
                        Sherrod, b. 11–4–1895, Birmingham, Ala.; no children.
               84 Edna Julian, dau. of IX, 96; b. 10–12–1880; d.
                        8–6–1882, Boonville, Ind.
               85 Ida Julian, dau. of IX, 96; b. 8–12–1882, Lynnville, Ind.; living
                        Boonville, Ind.; m. 10–23–1904, Boonville, Dwight Caswell, b.
                        10–30–1879, Boonville, s. of Christopher C. and Serilda Caswell; children:
                        a, Rex, b, Raymond Oscar, c, Emily, d, Ruth, e, Bertram Julian.
               86 Mabel Julian, dau. of IX, 96; b. 5–2–1884, Roonville, Ind.; d.
                        1–14–1885, Boonville.
               87 Ethel Julian, dau. of IX, 96; b. 1–8–1886, Boonville, Ind.; d.
                        2–25–1886, Boonville.
               88 Belle Julian, dau. of IX, 96; b. 10–22–1887, Boonville, Ind.; living
                        Boonville; m. 1–31–1920, Boonville, Pearl O. Dark, d.
                        10–1–1888, Boonville, s. of Henry Dark and Serilda Kelley; no children.
               89 Emily Elizabeth Julian, dau. of IX, 96; b. 6–14–1889, Boonville,
                        Ind.; d. 3–4–1890, Boonville.
               90 Opal Julian, dau. of IX, 96; b. 12–29–1895, Boonville, Ind.; living
                        there; m. 5–25–1916, Boonville, William J. Kloster-meier, b.
                        7–27–1889, Boonville, s. of Louis Klostenneier; children: a, Joyce, b,
                        Louis Julian.
               91 Bess Julian, dau. of IX, 96; b. 5–26–1899, Boonville, Ind.; living
                        there; m. 9–8–1927, 
                     Lawrenceville, Ill.
                  ,
                        Charles E.  Baker, b. 4–21–1899,
                        Boonville, living, s. of 
                            Jasper
                         Baker and Della Bowles.
               92 Elsie Rose Meier, dau. of IX, 102; b. 5–12–1888,
                                
                     Chicago, Ill.
                  ; living San Antonio, 
                            Texas
                        ; unmarried.
               93 Herbert Otto Meyer, s. of IX, 102; b. 6–26–1890, Central City, Ill.;
                        living 
                     Los Angeles, Calif.
                  ; changed spelling of name from Meier; m.
                        1–9–1914, 
                     Kansas City,
                                Mo.
                  , Nelle Rose 
                            Monroe
                        , b. 9–16–1889, Okla., dau. of William Riley Monroe and Emma
                        J. Duncan, living; children: a, Donald 
                            Monroe
                        .
               94 Helen Ruby Meier, dau. of IX, 102, b. 11–20–1893, Central City, Ill.;
                        living 
                            Chicago
                        ; m. 1st 2–22–1918, 
                            Newport
                         News, Va., Carroll Leonard Ellis, b. 1–2–1889, Yale, Mich.,
                        s. of William Leonard Ellis and Catherine Carroll; children: a, June Eileen; m. 2nd
                        4–1–1940, Joliet, Ill., Max Prill, b. 10–14–1889,
                        Centralia, Ill., s. of Hugo Prill and Hannah Kuester; no children.
               95 Dr. Harold Irving Meyer, M.D., s. of IX, 102 (changed name back to original spelling Meyer
                        from Meier used by father); b. 3–21–1897, Central City, Ill., living 
                            Chicago
                        ; m. 5–29–1937, Kankakee, Ill., 
                            Virginia
                         Marie Healy, b. 12–25–1901, 
                            Chicago
                        , dau. of Edward Brennan Healy and Edna Morgan Clingman; children: a, Paul Rogers,
                        b, Robert Beeson.
               96 William Henry Loomis, s. of IX, 104; b. 12–23–1902, Lynn-ville, Ind.;
                        d. 2–24–1937, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.; m. Hallie O'Neill Madden, Henderson, Ky., b.
                        7–27–1902, 
                            Warrick
                         Co., Ind., living Lynnville, dau. of Moses Lycureas Madden and Eva Holder;
                        children: a, William Ernest, b, Margie Elaine, c, Merry Caroline.
               97 Vivian Maud Loomis, dau. of IX, 104; b. 6–20–1904, Lynnville, Ind.;
                        r. San Antonio, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 2–28–1933, San Antonio, Eldon Parker 
                            Butler
                        , b. 2–17–1893, Meridian, Miss., s. of William Washington
                        Butler and Mattie Elizabeth Alexander; no children.
               98 Paul Phillips Loomis, s. of IX, 104; b. 4–17–1906, d.
                        11–6–1906, Lynnville, Ind.
               99 Raymond Clair Loomis, s. of IX, 104; b. 10–23–1908, Lynnville, Ind.;
                        living; m. 9–3–1932, 
                            Chicago
                        , Myrtle Hardesty, b. 2–25–1914, Switz City, Ind., living,
                        dau. of Emerson Hardesty and Lola Ina Hall; children: a, Don Eldon, b, Harvey Alan.
               100 Helen Loomis, dau. of IX, 106; b. 9–2–1903, Murphysboro, Ill., d.
                        7–15–1904, same place.
               101 Clarence Alvia Loomis, Jr., s. of IX, 106; b. 8–2–1904, Murphysboro,
                        Ill.; d. 8–16–1912, East 
                     St.
                            Louis, Ill.
                  , buried
                        Murphysboro.
               102 Charles Edward Loomis, a. of IX, 106; b. 10–11–1907, Murphysboro,
                        Ill.; living Webster Groves, Mo.; m. 6–16–1934, 
                            St. Louis
                        , Challie Denson, b. 7–30–1904, 
                            St. Louis
                        , living, dau. of Richard Denson and Forrest May Moorman; children: a, John Charles,
                        b, James Edward.
               
               103 Paul Loomis, 8. of IX, 106; b. 4–7–1910, Murphysboro, Ill.; living
                        Collinsville, Ill.; m. 9–11–1938, 
                            St. Louis
                        , Marrie Marjorie Allen; no children.
               104 Thelma Louise Loomis, dau. of IX, 106; b. 3–27–1913, East
                                
                     St. Louis, Ill.
                  ; r. there; m. 6–27–1937,
                        Waterloo, Ill., Commodore Robert Edminston, b. 2–4–1914, East 
                            St. Louis
                        , s. of Louis Abner Edminston and Violet Greener; children: a, Ronald Lee.
               105 Dorothy Arlie Loomis, dau. of IX, 106; b. 10–2–1915, East
                                
                     St. Louis, Ill.
                  ; r. there; unmarried.
               106 Earl Clinton Loomis, s. of IX, 106; b. 6–26–1919, East
                                
                     St. Louis, Ill.
                  ; r. there; m. 11–14–1943,
                        there, Helen Margaret Loomis (not related), b. 6–24–1920, Washington,
                        D.C., dau. of William Raymond Loomis and Mable Marie Overell; no children.
               107 Elsie Fern Loomis, dau. of IX, 106; b. 10–8–1923, East
                                
                     St. Louis, Ill.
                  ; r. there; m. there 5–26–1945,
                        there, 
                            Warren
                         Charles Sieber, b. 9–14–1918, there, s. of Edward Eugene
                        Sieber and Adelaide Warren; no children.
               108 Helen Irene Moore, dau. of IX, 107; b. 11–2–1899, Gibson Co., Ind.;
                        r. Boonville, Ind.; unmarried.
               109 Mabel Lucille Moore, dau. of IX, 107; b. 1–20–1902, Gibson Co.,
                        Ind.; r. Lynnville, Ind.; m. 2–3–1921, Lynnville, Charles C. Plassmeier,
                        b. 10–10–1880, Lynnville, d. 12–1–1940, same, s. of
                        Ernest Frederick Plassmeier and Charlotte Kruse; children: a, Carl, b, Helen Louise, c, Harold
                        Ernest, d, Betty Louise.
               110 Gladys Moore, dau. of IX, 107; b. 11–23–1903, Gibson Co., Ind.; r.
                        Boonville, Ind.; m. 1–20–1928, Boonville, Orris Chapman, b.
                        5–16–1899, Lynnville, Ind., s. of Lewis Chapman and Sarah E. Manning;
                        children: a, John Lewis.
               111 Ruby Pauline Moore, dau. of IX, 107; b. 1–5–1906, Lynnville, Ind.;
                        r. Boonville, Ind.; m. 1st 5–24–1943, 
                            Rockport
                        , Ind., Otto K. Lenn, b. 1–8–1904, Boonville, living, s. of
                        Thomas J. Lenn and Carrie Jeffries; no children; m. 2nd 2–17–1945, Alvin
                        E. Montgomery, b. 7–16–1901, Patoka, Ind.; no children.
               112 Olive Evelyn Stuckey, dau. of IX, 109; b. 3–6–1899, Evans-ville,
                        Ind.; r. Berwyn, Ill.; m. Edwin Reid Baskett; children: a, Jacqueline.
               113 Lester E. Stuckey, s. of IX, 109; b. 4–10–1901, 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.; r. there; m. 5–4–1937, Owensboro, Ky., Willie Lee
                        Sisk, b. 12–10–1913, 
                            Clay
                        , Ky., dau. of Lester Sisk and Dollie Harrington; children: a, Robert Wayne, b,
                        Thomas Pharal.
               114 John Henry Thompson, s. of IX, 111; b. 11–24–1897, Gon-zales, 
                            Texas
                        ; d. 2–19–1946, Sebastin, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 8–31–1920, Victoria, 
                            Texas
                        , Christine Audrey Wilborne, b. 12–5–1903, Nursery, 
                            Texas
                        , r. Baytown, 
                            Texas
                        , dau. of Littleberry Spratley Wilborne and Cora Virginia McBride; children: a,
                        Geraldine Virginia, b, Martha Louise, c, Una Wilborne.
               
               115 Thomas Tyree Thompson, s. of IX, 111; b. 10–10–1900, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. Harlington, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 11–25–1925, Faye Long, Linton, 
                            Texas
                        , b. 12–29–1906, Corpus Christi, dau. of James Wesley Long and
                        Martha Ann Maye; children: a, Billy Maye, b, Thomas Tyree, Jr., c, Edwin Michael, d, John Ralph.
               116 Ralph Millard Thompson, s. of IX, 111; b. 9–29–1902, Gonzales Co., 
                            Texas
                        ; r. Smiley, 
                            Texas
                        ; unmarried.
               117 Eliza Fay Massey, dau. of IX, 113; b. 2–14–1898, Owensville, Ind.;
                        d. 3–12–1900, same.
               118 Roy Elias Massey, s. of IX, 113; b. 6–26–1903, Owensville, Ind.; r. 
                            Vincennes
                        , Ind.; m. 1st 12–24–1922, Keensburg, Ill., Stella Hoffmann,
                        b. 1–14–1900, 
                            Wabash
                         Co., Ill., dau. of John Hoffmann and Anne Schuh; children: a, Lyle Roy, b, Raymond
                        L., c, Don Elias; m. 2nd 7–6–1942, 
                     St.
                                Louis, Mo.
                  , Ida Alice
                        Jordan, b. 1–26–1909, 
                            Knox
                         Co., Ind., dau. of William Hiram Jordan and Mary E. Fairhurst; no children.
               119 Paul Donovan Massey, s. of IX, 113; b. 11–30–1909, Owensville, Ind.;
                        r. 
                            Vincennes
                        , Ind.; m. 7–21–1944, 
                            Vincennes
                        , Robertine Ellen Wilson, b. 8–25–1920, Wheatland, Ind., dau.
                        of William Leroy Wilson and Bessie Pearl Adams.
               120 Florence Mantillie Zint, dau. of IX, 114; b. 4–14–1896, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. Gonzales; m. 8–21–1916, Gonzales, Jack Henry Rayson, b.
                        10–11–1890, Rangoon, India, living, s. of William George Rayson and Edith
                        Emma Field; children: a, Sybil Almeric, b, Helen Edith, c, Jack Henry, Jr.
               121 Gertrude Clarice Zint, dau. of IX, 114; b. 8–7–1902, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. there; m. 10–10–1923, Gonzales, Rupert Cheatham Reid, b.
                        1–23–1899, Gonzales, s. of Frank Cheat-ham Reid and Augusta Stulting;
                        children: a, Marylin Ruth, b, Bryce Zint.
               122 Commodore A. Tyree, 8. of IX, 115; b. 1–5–1894, Wrights-boro, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. Three Rivers, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 5–17–1915, Moore, 
                            Texas
                        , Queen Etta Cochran, b. 8–14–1896, Mountain City, 
                            Texas
                        , living, dau. of James Samuel Cochran and Rhoda Frances Kneiber; children: a,
                        Savilla Frances.
               123 Melvin E. Beeson, s. of IX, 116; b. 7–1–1903, Cuero, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. Cost, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 3–23–1924, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        , Lavelle Rentz, b. 4–20–1907, Gonzales, dau. of Houston Rentz
                        and Minnie Baker; children: a, Melva Lavelle, b, Porter Ray, c, Betty Jo, d, Willie Ann, e,
                        Charles Frederick, f, Sandra Kay.
               124 Allen Teman Beeson, s. of IX, 116; b. 9–30–1904, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. San Diego, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 4–7–1932, Conroe, 
                            Texas
                        , Ruth Bennett, b. 11–2–1904, Omaha, Nebr., living; no
                        children.
               125 Annie Laurie Beeson, dau. of IX, 116; 8–8–1906, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. Port Aransas, 
                            Texas
                        ; m. 1–19–1927, Alice, 
                            Texas
                        , Edward Smith, b. 5–31–1902, Gorham, N.H., s. of Paul Smith
                        and Evangeline Bennett; children: a, Frances, b, James Edward.
               126 Mary Ella Beson, dau. of IX, 116; b. 11–30–1908, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. there; m. 1–30–1927, Gonzales, Julian Fougerat,  b. 4–3–1893, San Antonio, s. of
                        Armand Fougerat and Rose Apion; children: a, Dorothy Louise, b, Gerald Julian, c, Mary Theresa.
               127 Stephen Clifton Beeson, s. of IX, 116; b. 9–18–1910, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; d. 4–5–1931, Brownwood, 
                            Texas
                        .
               128 Florence Rebecca Beeson, dau. of IX, 116; b. 7–27–1917, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. Lake Charles, La.; m. 1–2–1938, Lake Charles, Eddie Alton
                        Tyson, b. 9–11–1913, Wesson, Miss., a. of Thomas Benjamin Tyson and Mollie
                        Emaline Bayte; children: a, Oliver Allen, b, Curtis Alton.
               129 LaMonte Lawrence Beeson, s. of IX, 118; b. 5–1–1907, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. 
                     Houston, Texas
                  ; m. 4–30–1930, Stephenville, 
                            Texas
                        , Josephine Arendell, b. 2–21–1907, Stephenville, dau. of John
                        Egbert Arendell and May Hanley; living; no children.
               130 Walter Edgar Beeson, s. of IX, 118; b. 9–18–1909, Gonzales, 
                            Texas
                        ; r. 
                            Baltimore
                        ; m. 3–10–1934, 
                            Baltimore
                        , Marie Hooper; children: a, Richard LaMonte.
               131 Perry Wooldridge, s. of IX, 120; r. 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.
               132 Bessie Pearl Jenkins, dau. of IX, 122; b. 4–4–1897, Huntsville, Ky.;
                        r. Owensboro, Ky.; m. 12–24–1916, Clarksville, Tenn., Luther J. Keeling,
                        b. Hunt Co., 
                            Texas
                        ; children: a, Cora Margaret, b, Iris Gwenette, c, Wanda Marian, d, Edgar Wayne, e,
                        Daniel Clifton, f, James Franklin, g, Beatrice (Bebe).
               133 Grace Opal Jenkins, dau. of IX, 122; b. 10–24–1899, Huntsville, Ky.;
                        r. Owensboro, Ky.; m. 1st 12–24–1916, Clarksville, Tenn., Elmer Armstrong,
                        b. 3–2–1898, Clifty, Ky.; children: a, Mayme Margaret, b, William Henry,
                        c, James Edward, d, Dorothy Ann; m. 2nd 8–25–1939, Owensboro, Ernest
                        Unsel, b. Owensboro, d. 11–1–1940, there; no children.
               134 Lester Jenkins, s. of IX, 122; b. 8–31–1902, Huntsville, Ky.; d.
                        4–13–1903, there.
               135 Edgar Thomas Jenkins, s. of IX, 122; b. 3–31–1904, Huntsville, Ky.;
                        r. Maceo, Ky.; m. 11–22–1903, Owensboro, Ky., Eufaula Rose Whitten, b.
                        11–6–1907, Davis Co., Ky., dau. of William T. Whitten and Rosa Zolphia
                        Frasure; children: a, Jeanette, b, Raymond, c, Eva Jean.
               136 Jesse Wayne Jenkins, s. of IX, 122; b. 4–16–1908, Huntsville, Ky.;
                        r. Utica, Ky.; m. 10–29–1932, Owensboro, Ky., Gladys Wimp, b. Southerland,
                        Ky.; children: a, Clifford, b, Jerry J.
               137 Bertie Velma Jenkins, dau. of IX, 122; b. 8–12–1910, Huntsville,
                        Ky.; r. Owensboro, Ky.; m. 8–22–1931, Owensboro, John Lawrence
                        Westerfield, b. 1–26–1912, Owensboro, s. of Emlis Westerfield and Minnie
                        Lee Heidenrite; children: a, Ida Aloha, b, John Robert.
               138 Robert Douglas Sutton, s. of IX, 122; b. 4–7–1919, Owensboro, Ky.;
                        r. there; m. 1–21–1939, there, Anna Myrtle De-Hart, b.
                        9–8–1918, 
                            Ohio
                         Co., Ky., dau. of Elmer DeHart and Rosa Reynolds; children: a, Marvin Forrest.
               
               139 Frank Daryl Sutton, s. of IX, 122; b. 9–15–1922, Maceo, Ky.; d.
                        6–6–1924, Owensboro, Ky.
               140 Lester Milton Wooldridge, s. of IX, 123; b. 7–18–1906, Penrod, Ky.;
                        r. 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.; m. 9–1–1926, 
                            Vincennes
                        , Ind., Valada Marshall, b. 10–4–1904, 
                            Evansville
                        , dau. of Robert Marshall and Minnie B. Jennings; children: a, Robert Joe.
               141 Rogers William Motherwell, s. of IX, 128; b. 2–1–1904, Ft. Wayne,
                        Ind.; r. 
                     Denver, Colo.
                  ; m. 8–17–1930, 
                            Denver
                        , Lucille Elmina Broyles, b. 5–6–1909, Trenton, Mo., living,
                        dau. of Asa Lee Broyles and Edith May Westlake; children: a, Mary Beth.
               142 Clara Alice Motherwell, dau. of IX, 128; b. 8–2–1907, Ft. Wayne,
                        Ind.; r. 
                     Denver, Colo.
                  ; m 8–16–1929, 
                            Denver
                        , Samuel Edward Schumann, b. 9–21–1906, 
                            Cincinnati
                        , s. of Frederick Carl Schumann and Annie Rosetta Lee; children: a, Robert Lee, b,
                        Betty Claire, c, Samuel Paul.
               143 Nelson Robert Motherwell, s. of IX, 128; b. 10–10–1910,
                                
                     Denver, Colo.
                  ; r. there; m. 10–30–1937, 
                            Denver
                        , Alyce Etta Bloom, b. 8–5–1916, Sugarite, N. Mex., dau. of
                        Donald Alvin Bloom and Juanita Baker; no children.
               144 Sterling F. Tustison, s. of IX, 129; b. 7–17–1910,
                                
                     Denver, Colo.
                  ; r. Salt Lake City; m. 9–18–1935, Salt
                        Lake City, Alice Wilkinson, b. 11–25–1912, Salt Lake City, dau. of Gordon
                        Wilkinson and Rose Stamm; children: a, Sharon, b, Susan.
               145 Beatrice Burdge, dau. of IX, 131; m. — Davidson; children: a, Constance
                    Jean.
            
            (The rest of the names of those belonging to the 10th generation were left out for lack of any vital
                    data concerning them.)
            [To be continued in the next issue.]
         
         
         
            Query 131
            
               James Stinson was born Aug. 18, 1781, died April 2, 1823. James Stinson married Elizabeth
                        —?, who. James and Elizabeth Stinson had issue.
               Rachel Stinson, born Sept. 16, 1801, married Wm. Taylor, died June 10, 1869.
               Sarah Stinson, born Dec. 3, 1802, married Wm. McKurtt.
               John Michael Stinson, born Jan. 25, 1805, married —?
               Nancy Stinson, born Dec. 10, 1806, in Ky., died, 1866. This is the Nancy who married Buriah
                        Short. She was the daughter of James and Elizabeth Stinson. James was the first son of Elijah
                        and Rachel (Cobb) Stinson.
               Lewis Washington Stinson, born Dec. 21, 1808.
               Thomas Jefferson Stinson, born March 11, 1811.
               William Harrison Stinson, born March 8, 1813, married Elizabeth McCurkle.
               Margaret Stinson, born Aug. 13, 1815, married — Wilson.
               James Wilson Stinson, born Feb. 9, 1818, married Mary Ward.
               Elizabeth Stinson, born Nov. 1, 1821.
               Nancy Stinson daughter of Elijah Brazill Stinson and Rachel (Cobb) Stinson born June 3, 1801,
                        died Oct. 26, 1859, married first, Rufus Williams, Sept. 30, 1816. Rufus Williams died about
                        1827. Second marriage to William Ragland, Oct. 7, 1828. Nancy never married again and is buried
                        near 
                            Mt. Vernon
                        , Tnd.
               Also there are other ways of spelling the name of Jarrett Goodwin—Jairet, Jariot,
                        Jaret.
               Buriah Short was born in N.C. in 1798, died in 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., 1866. Buriah and Nancy Short came to 
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., in 1825, from Ky. In Query 130 there was an error in the state in which
                        Buriah Short was born, it is 
                            North Carolina
                         instead of 
                            Virginia
                        .
               Will pay $5.00 for information of Sarah (Sally) Webster, Jarret (Jairet, Jariot,
                        Jaret) Goodwin, Capt. Silas Cobb (lived in N.C. in 1780–1781). Elizabeth —
                        Stinson (wife of James Stinson). She was born May 16, 1780, where? Who were her parents? I think
                        she came from Ky. Also married James Stinson in Ky. Rachel (Cobb) Stinson's
                    parents.
            
            
                    Mrs. Earl J. Cams
                    650 
                            Baltimore
                        
                        
                            Pike
                        
               
                    
                        
                     Springfield, Delaware County
                  
                        
                            Pennsylvania
                        
                    
                
         
         
         
            The Editor's Page
            Anyone interested in old homes should find the second edition of a small booklet by Julie Le Clerc
                    Knox, Some Interesting Pioneer Homesteads In and Around 
                            Vevay
                        , Indiana, published in 1948, very suggestive. Copies of this publication may
                    be obtained from Miss Julie Le Clem Knox, 949 East Main Street, 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana.
            Under the auspices of the 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission, Charles A. Anderson has prepared a five-page mimeographed
                    article on Suggestions for Celebrating Community Anniversaries. For copies of this article write to
                    the 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission, Lansing 13, 
                        Michigan
                    . This may be of interest to Indiana communities since 1950 is the sesquicentennial year
                    of the founding of Indiana Territory.
            If there are a sufficient number of Lincoln students and friends who would be interested in
                    subscribing to a quarterly or bimonthly publication at two dollars a year, the McLellan Lincoln
                    Collection at 
                        Brown
                     University, 
                        Providence
                    , Rhode Island, will publish a four to eight page pamphlet.
            The editor wishes to thank J. B. Baerncopf and Robert H. Espey who very kindly contributed their
                    March, 1948, copies of the Indiana Magazine of History. An earlier list of donors
                    was published in the March, 1949, issue. We could use additional copies of the March, 1948, issue
                    since the demand exceeds the supply available.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
