
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 80, Issue 1, pages 1-91. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:80+issue:1+year:1984&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                     of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    :
            The Education of a Christian Settlement Worker
            Mina J. Carson∗
            
            
                    Life is doing the work God put you into the world to do, to cultivate yourself to the best of
                        your power, in order that, by cultivation, your capacity for benefiting your fellow-creatures
                        may be increased. Of course the two duties melt into and blend with each other; they should not
                        be allowed to come to blows, though their interests may sometimes clash.
                    Edward Denison, 1864∗∗
               
                
            Among her peers in the settlement house movement at the turn of the century, Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                     was a latecomer to settlement work. The daughter of a prominent Indiana businessman and
                    politician, she was educated to piety, virtue, and gentility at home and at Miss Porter's
                    School for girls in Farmington, 
                        Connecticut
                    . She was twenty years old when Jane Addams and Ellen Gates Starr founded Hull-House in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1889. At twenty-nine, after a decade of family life, good works, and unhappiness in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , she followed her beloved cousin Alice 
                        Hamilton
                     to Hull-House, just for a short winter visit, to meet the remarkable Miss Addams and
                    see some of 
                        Chicago
                    's sights. Smitten with settlement life, Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                     barely tore herself away to return home after two exhilarating months. Three more years
                    passed before she finally began her life's work at the Lighthouse Settlement in 
                        Philadelphia
                    .
            Most settlement workers, then as later, were recent college graduates. Full of idealistic enthusiasm
                    and unburdened by specific technical or professional training, both men and women responded eagerly
                    to the calls of visiting lecturers, campus missions, 
                  
                     ∗ Mina J. Carson is a Ph.D. candidate, Department of
                            History, 
                                Harvard
                             University, 
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     . She wishes to thank
                            Donald Fleming, James Turner, 
                                Helena
                             Wall, and particularly Barbara Sicherman for their suggestions on this article.
                            Thanks also go to Katherine Kraft and other staff members of the Schlesinger Library,
                            Radcliffe College, 
                                Cambridge
                            , for their aid in the research and especially to William Rush 
                                Hamilton
                             and Phoebe 
                                Hamilton
                             Soule for so generously sharing their understanding and memories of a previous
                            generation of remarkable 
                                Hamilton
                             women. Excerpts from the 
                                Hamilton
                             Family Papers are published with the permission of the Schlesinger Library and
                            William Rush 
                                Hamilton
                            .
                  
                     ∗∗ Letter of March 3, 1864, in Letters and Other Writings of the Late Edward Denison, M. P. for 
                                    Newark
                                , ed. Sir Baldwyn Leighton (
                                London
                            , 1872), 1.
               
                     and alumnae associations to sojourn for a while in the poor
                    neighborhoods of great cities. Like Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                    , they had been raised on the moral and religious writings of the
                    Victorians—Thomas Carlyle, John Ruskin, George Eliot, Dr. Thomas Arnold and his son
                    Matthew, Charles Kingsley, Frederick D. Maurice—who laid out their Christian duties in an
                    industrial society and made compelling sense of such a middle-class mission to the slums.
            Like many of her contemporaries Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                     was stirred by the exhortations to "personal service" that formed the
                    core of the settlement idea as it evolved from Christian Socialist reformulations of the proper
                    spirit of philanthropy in a well-ordered society.1 But unlike those who moved
                    easily from their families and campuses to a new and hitherto alien field of action, Agnes found the
                    call of duty, not liberating, but confusing. For over ten years, despite increasing responsibility
                    and success in social service in her own city, she struggled with feelings of personal and spiritual
                    inadequacy. It seemed clear to her that the only resolution of the tensions plaguing her life was a
                    single-minded dedication 
                  
                     1 The excellent standard history of the settlement house movement in
                            the 
                                United States
                             is Allen F. Davis, Spearheads for Reform: The Social Settlements
                                and the Progressive Movement, 1890–1914 (
                                New York
                            , 1967). For an analysis of the settlement workers' motives see
                            especially pp. 33–39. See also John P. Rousmanière, "Cultural
                            Hybrid in the Slums: The College Woman and the Settlement House,
                            1889–1894," American Quarterly, XXII (Spring, 1970),
                            45–66. An acute, helpful, and compendious account of the settlement movement
                            through World War I by two settlement leaders is Robert A. Woods and Albert J. Kennedy, The Settlement Horizon: A National Estimate (
                                New York
                            , 1922). Contemporary assessments include Dwight Goddard, "The
                            Advantages of Residence at a University Settlement," 
                        
                                    Hartford
                                 Seminary Record, IV (December, 1893), especially 83; Vida D. Scudder,
                            "The Place of College Settlements," Andover Review, VIII
                            (October, 1892), 343–45; Morrison I. Swift, "The Working Population of
                            Cities, and What the Universities Owe Them," ibid., XIII (June,
                            1890), 589–613; Robert A. Woods, "Social Work: A New
                            Profession," Charities and the Commons, XV (January 6, 1906),
                            especially 474–76. The most famous statement, by Jane Addams, was first published
                            as "The Subjective Necessity for Social Settlements," in Addams et al., Philanthropy and Social Progress: Seven Essays (
                                New York
                            , 1893), 1–26, and then reprinted in Twenty Years at
                                Hull-House, with Autobiographical Notes (
                                New York
                            , 1912); it is discussed below. The major work for American adaptations of
                            Christian Socialism is James Dombrowski, The Early Days of Christian Socialism
                                in America (
                                New York
                            , 1936). For more contemporary accounts of the origins of Christian Socialism,
                            especially from the "settlement" point of view, see the Reverend Moritz
                            Kaufmann, Charles Kingsley: Christian Socialist and Social Reformer (
                                London
                            , 1892), 1–8; Graham Taylor, "The Social Function of the
                            Church," Friends' Quarterly Examiner, XXXVIII (January,
                            1904), 92–110; Robert A. Woods, English Social Movements (
                                London
                            , 1892), 61–66. See also Paul 
                                Monroe
                            , "English and American Christian Socialism: An Estimate," American Journal of Sociology, I (July, 1895), 50–68. The deans
                            of the English settlement movement were the Reverend Samuel A. Barnett and Henrietta O.
                            Barnett. Their volume of collected essays, Practicable Socialism: Essays on
                                Social Reform (
                                London
                            , 1888), is a good introduction to the ideology of the movement.
               
                     to her duty. Not at all clear, though, was what that duty might
                    be. Agnes's search for her proper role in her society reflects American middle-class
                    culture in transition and suggests some of the underlying impulses and motives that shaped American
                    social work on the verge of its professional era.
            The 
                        Hamilton
                     family of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana, had achieved over three generations an impressive balance between aloofness
                    from the surrounding community and careful obeisance to its strictures. Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                     was the third daughter of Andrew Holman and Phoebe Ann Taber 
                        Hamilton
                    , but in the category ultimately more significant to her she was the fifth cousin born
                    into the sprawling family "compound" in the pretty and prosperous city of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Situated at the confluence of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     and St. Mary's rivers, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     had boosted itself from a frontier outpost to a busy marketing and processing center
                    for the surrounding farmland. When the canals gave way to the railroads, the port city energetically
                    transformed itself into the junction of five major midwestern lines. Agnes's grandfather,
                    Allen 
                        Hamilton
                    , was an educated and footloose young Scotch-Irish immigrant who followed a cousin to
                    the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     area just as the surrounding 
                        Allen County
                     was being organized. After winning himself appointments as deputy in the federal land
                    office and then as provisional county sheriff, Allen 
                        Hamilton
                     threw over his legal study for the more profitable pursuits of merchant and Indian
                    commissioner. At his death in 1864 he left his heirs several thousand acres of farmland as well as a
                    number of rent-producing town lots, stock in several railroads and a canal, a family interest in the
                    local bank and several businesses, and a secure position of social and political prominence in city
                    and county affairs.2
            
            
               
                  2 The major source for 
                            Hamilton
                         family history is the immense collection of 
                            Hamilton
                         Family Papers, composed chiefly of the correspondence and other private papers of
                        four generations of 
                            Fort Wayne
                         Hamiltons, in the Schlesinger Library at Radcliffe College, 
                     Cambridge, Massachusetts
                  . The collection is accessible to the researcher on
                        microfilm. For outlines of Allen 
                            Hamilton
                        's career and estate see the manuscript biography of Allen 
                            Hamilton
                        , possibly by Andrew Holman 
                            Hamilton
                        , and the Last Will and Testament of Allen 
                            Hamilton
                        , both on reel 1. A full account of 
                            Hamilton
                        's career is offered by Allyn C. Wetmore, "Allen 
                            Hamilton
                        : The Evolution of a Frontier Capitalist" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department
                        of History, Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        , 1974). 
                            Hamilton
                        's estate as of 1860 is itemized on pp. 321–22n. See also
                        Wallace A. Brice, "Biographical Sketches of Early Settlers of 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Etc.," in Brice, History of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                   … (
                            Fort Wayne
                        , 1868), 18–22; Bert J. Griswold, Pictorial History of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana … (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1917), I, especially 259, 326, 360, 362, 411, 422. Other sources for 
                            Fort Wayne
                         history are Brice, History of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 319–24; 
                     
                                Fort Wayne
                             in 1871 (
                            Fort Wayne
                        , 1953). Alice 
                            Hamilton
                         offers a brief but vivid portrait of the family in her autobiography, Exploring the Dangerous Trades: The Autobiography of Alice 
                                Hamilton
                            , M.D. (
                            Boston
                        , 1943), especially 18–35.
            
            
            Emerine Holman 
                        Hamilton
                     bore Allen 
                        Hamilton
                     eleven children, of whom five survived: two sons, Andrew Holman (1834–1895)
                    and 
                        Montgomery
                     (1843–1900), and three daughters, Mary (1846?–1922), Ellen
                    (1852?–1922), and Margaret (1854–1931). In this second 
                        Hamilton
                     generation, only Margaret never married. The others married, bore children, and for the
                    most part stayed close to the 
                        Hamilton
                     estates in and around 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . The third generation of 
                        Hamilton
                     children played, studied, and grew through adolescence in their own comfortable
                    sanctuary. The first meaningful distinction in their lives was between "members"
                    (the cousins and the "grownups") and "outsiders." Indeed,
                    Agnes's parents, Andrew Holman and Phoebe, were adventurous in sending their children into
                    the community for their early schooling, for Montgomery and Gertrude taught their precocious
                    daughters, Edith, Alice, Margaret, and Norah, at home.
            Several years younger than her sisters, Katherine and Jessie, Agnes found her natural playmates in
                    her cousins Alice 
                        Hamilton
                     and Aunt Mary's son, Allen 
                        Hamilton
                     Williams (or "Allen W.," as he was called after one of
                    Agnes's two younger brothers was also christened with the family patronymic). The
                    "three A's" were born within several months of each other in the winter
                    of 1868–1869. As children they played together in and under an old tree they called the
                    "Frightfull," taking their imaginary personae from Robin Hood, King
                        Arthur, and, perhaps more unusually, the ancient Greek plays. Their games continued well
                    into adolescence, but in that difficult period tensions developed that transformed and complicated
                    the cousins' relationship. At first the major annoyance was Allen's boyish
                    betrayal of his female cousins: he began "slandering" them to his school
                        friends.3 Soon, though, a worse rift threatened. In the diary Agnes began to
                    keep at fifteen she recorded that the other two had suddenly "taken it in their heads that
                    they want to know somebody." She found this whim incomprehensible. "I think the
                    boys and girls in this town are very stupid and silly and I don't care to
                    have anything to do with them."4 Though she gradually resigned herself
                    to her cousins' social forwardness, a more fundamental worry began to nag her. At sixteen
                    she wrote: "My lessons are so hard this year that I 
                  
                     3 Details of the cousins' childhood games are scattered
                            throughout entries for December 6, 1883, through January, 1885, in the Diary of Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            , reels 15 and 16, 
                                Hamilton
                             Family Papers. This work is hereafter cited as "Diary." The
                            "slander" episode appears on [Saturday following January 7], 1884. See
                            also Alice 
                                Hamilton
                            , Exploring the Dangerous Trades, 25–27.
                  
                     4 Diary, February 10, 1884.
               
                     never get one moment to myself except on Saturday and yet
                    Alice's are just as hard and even harder (she is so much further advanced than I am) and
                    she don't have to study near so much. I wonder if I am so much stupider."5
            
            Until 1884 Agnes had attended the Westminster private academy in the mornings and on those afternoons
                    when drawing was offered, staying at home other days to study French with Allen and Alice. Seeking a
                    more structured regimen, she persuaded her parents in 1885 to allow her to try the public high
                    school for a year. Alice continued to study at home, while Allen was sent to school in 
                        Boston
                    , returning home during vacations to his cousins' fond admiration of his
                    "splendid" new physique and sophistication.6
            
            Agnes's conviction that she was stupid grew into an obsession as she measured herself not
                    only against her cousins but against her own resolutions of discipline and self-improvement.
                    Initially she concentrated on her bad habits of sloth at her studies and talking too much, which at
                    fifteen she considered her "principal fault." A week after these first resolutions
                    were taken she had to admit failure. "I have neither studied hard nor stoped talking but
                    next week I will try harder."7 On New Year's Eve, 1885, she
                    drew up the first of the more elaborate programs that punctuate her diaries for the next decade. She
                    was to rise at seven, study before school, devote the noon hour to Latin, read seriously
                    ("not novels nor even stories in Harpers or Century") for an hour and half after
                    school, and go to bed early. She was now seventeen and as far behind her cousins as ever:
                    "I still feel so childish and I know so very, very little, I am really quite alarmed when I
                    hear Allen and Alice talking about men and deeds that I have never heard of or that I merely know by
                        name."8
            
            Despite her increasing self-doubt, Agnes was by nature cheerful and resilient. While belittling
                    herself, she glorified the family and celebrated the "members'" triumphs
                    and activities, even if she always had to be the "stupid know nothing."9 Her diary entries often shifted abruptly from meditations on her own failings
                    to detailed accounts of tennis parties, long walks with her sisters 
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., March 9, 1884.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., December 6, 1883, January 3, April 25, October 4, 1885; Alice 
                                Hamilton
                            , Exploring the Dangerous Trades, 29–31.
                  
                     7 Diary, January 7 [and following Sunday], 1884.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., January 3, 1885.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., August 10, 1886.
               
                    
                    
                  THE "THREE A'S" AGNES HAMILTON, ALLEN HAMILTON WILLIAMS, ALICE HAMILTON DECEMBER, 1883
                  The Schlesinger Library, Radcliffe College.
               
                     and cousins, and evenings spent at Uncle Mont's house
                    playing cards, talking, reading aloud, and singing. With the exception of her beloved Allen W., she
                    inhabited a strikingly female world. Her father is an elusive figure in the family annals; he lapses
                    into poor health in the late 1880s and becomes chiefly the source of vetoes and prohibitions. He was
                    an important figure in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , however. Groomed for responsibility by postgraduate study in 
                        Germany
                     and at 
                        Harvard
                     Law School, he served as executor of his father's estate and shared its
                    management with his brother 
                        Montgomery
                    . A good Democrat in Democratic 
                        Allen County
                    , he capped a successful career in local politics with two terms as 
                        United States
                     representative from the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     district from 1875 to 1879.10 Agnes recorded her father's
                    political and financial fortunes from a child's perspective: she felt the bad times of the
                    mid-1880s as the woe of fewer Christmas presents coupled with the joy of having Alice in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , for her uncle was forced to forego a family winter in 
                        Florida
                    . With little experience of material deprivation, Agnes parroted the family wisdom:
                    "We are really land-poor if only we would give away about half our property we would have
                    much more money. We have only three servants now so Katherine and Jessie have to do some work, I
                    have been helping them this vacation."11
            
            Her mother was the important parent in Agnes's life. Andrew Holman 
                        Hamilton
                     had married his childhood sweetheart, the daughter and heiress of his father's
                    business partner, Cyrus Taber. A less forceful and worldly woman than Aunt Gertrude 
                        Hamilton
                    , Phoebe Ann 
                        Hamilton
                     was loving and solicitous, with an infinite capacity for concern with the details of
                    living. Pocketmoney, dresses, and coffee parties were her preoccupations. She shaped her children
                    with a constant, gentle, worried pressure.12
            
            The patriarch, Allen 
                        Hamilton
                    , had not stinted his children's education. His sons attended universities on
                    the East Coast and in Europe while his daughters were sent to Miss Porter's School in
                    Farmington, 
                        Connecticut
                    , for two years of polishing.13 This 
                  
                     10 For biographical details for Andrew Holman 
                                Hamilton
                             see reels 1 and 2, 
                                Hamilton
                             Family Papers; see also Griswold, Pictorial History of 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , I, especially 446.
                  
                     11 Diary, January 3, 1885.
                  
                     12 These qualities emerge in the correspondence of Phoebe Ann Taber 
                                Hamilton
                            , which includes chiefly letters to her children and other family members, reels
                            3 and 4, 
                                Hamilton
                             Family Papers. See also records of Phoebe Ann Taber's education, reel
                            1; the affectionate correspondence between Andrew Holman and Phoebe Ann 
                                Hamilton
                             in the 1860s, reel 2; Griswold, Pictorial History of 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , I, 241.
                  
                     13 Alice 
                                Hamilton
                            , Exploring the Dangerous Trades, 22, 35.
               
                     investment became a 
                        Hamilton
                     tradition, and Katherine, Jessie, and Edith 
                        Hamilton
                     were each packed off to Farmington at seventeen to complete their piecemeal education,
                    classically Victorian in content and ambiguous in purpose. In 1886 Alice and Agnes anticipated the
                    same opportunity with excitement and trepidation. Characteristically, Alice decided to prepare for
                    life among strangers at Farmington by meeting new people at home while Agnes hung back, declaring,
                    "I am very well contented with my present life for the present time."14 Her brilliant cousin Edith unconsciously added to Agnes's
                    trepidations by describing her recent Farmington schoolmates as "very bright and
                    studious." Agnes pictured the worst: "I never expected to be popular nor even to
                    be liked by a few but I did think that I could know my lessons." She pitied herself for the
                    blot she would leave on the family escutcheon, and "heartily wish[ed]" her school
                    days were already past.15
            
            At Farmington, Agnes seesawed between joy and agony. As had become habitual, she blamed her miseries
                    on herself rather than her surroundings. "Farmington is just as perfect as they all said it
                    would be, the girls, Miss Porter and all, but I don't think I am the right sort of
                    Farmington girl."16 Privately, however, she spared her schoolmates none
                    of the stern rigor with which she conducted her own self-evaluations. Ruthlessly she separated the
                    "bores" from the "demigods." She was sure that, were it not for
                    Alice, none of the nicer girls would ever look her way. The unpleasant novelty of her jealousy of
                    Alice propelled her into sharp self-disgust: "I thought for a while that I had given up
                    being conscious that there is an I always with me but here I am thinking of nothing else
                    … Stupid, stupid, stupid is all I can think of tonight. How can I expect anyone to like
                    me when I have just the character I especially dislike."17 Her poignant
                    self-abasement reached an acute state when, in December of their first year, the "nicest
                    girl in the school" asked the 
                        Hamilton
                     cousins to room with her the next term. When Alice confided her fear that Kitty
                    Ludington would find them dull, Agnes sought the silver lining. Since Kitty must already think Agnes
                    "very stupid and empty," she had nothing to lose. "It makes me perfectly
                    happy to be with her …. It will be very hard to give her up in the Spring term for of
                    course she will grow so tired of us that she will choose someone else to room with her."18
            
            
               
                  14 Diary, March 25, 1886.
               
                  15
                        Ibid., July 21, 1886.
               
                  16
                        Ibid., November 1, 1886.
               
                  17
                        Ibid., December 5, 1886.
               
                  18
                        Ibid., December 21, 1886.
            
            
            
               AGNES AND ALICE HAMILTON c. 1890
               The Schlesinger Library, Radcliffe College.
            
            Miss Porter's School was conducted academically on a free elective system. Alice 
                        Hamilton
                     recalled years later that "some of the teaching we received was the
                    world's worst." Her severest indictment was reserved for a sequential course in
                    "mental and moral philosophy," taught by rote from two impenetrable tomes written
                    by Miss Porter's brother, Yale president Noah Porter. Not surprisingly, the students could
                    not understand why this text was venerated by the instructor, a 
                        German
                     who "kept his eyes fixed on the ceiling, for he claimed that he knew both
                    books by heart and need never look at the text."19 But what was a joke
                    to Alice became a trial for Agnes. Her well-meaning mother urged her to complete the course.
                    "I am afraid, like your Mother, you have not that flow of language with which many others
                    are gifted and would it not be well to take up those studies in which this deficiency is most
                    apparent …." She reasoned with her daughter 
                  
                     19 Alice 
                                Hamilton
                            , Exploring the Dangerous Trades, 36.
               
                     that since Agnes reported doing tolerably well in mathematics
                    and languages, her reputation among her friends could not suffer much if she were not head of the
                    class in "Mental" and "Moral," as the Farmington students called
                    the two courses.20
            
            Aside from this pedagogical travesty, the education offered at Farmington seems to have been good.
                    Miss Sarah Porter, the school's founder and its guiding spirit from the 1840s to her death
                    in 1900, put the stamp of her own New 
                        England
                     upbringing in a strongly Congregational family on her pupils' education. She
                    had been taught, as she later wrote, that "life must be earnest, progressive, not worldly
                    in motive or in plan," and she believed in the value of female education as a training in
                    character, piety, and responsibility. Herself a good linguist, she made sure that languages and
                    literature were taught with sensitivity in her school. Her brother Noah had just retired from the
                    presidency of Yale when the 
                        Hamilton
                     cousins arrived in Farmington; that family connection had long enriched the tiny school
                    with a stream of prominent Yale academics, clerics, and musicians, imported for the girls'
                    enlightenment (and Miss Porter's own intellectual pleasure). The school also offered
                    training in drawing and painting, a special joy to Agnes and her older sister Jessie before her.21
            
            Though Sarah Porter valued intellectual training, she was no advocate of higher education for women.
                    Her students were being prepared for a disciplined Christian womanhood, not for scholarship. When
                    Edith 
                        Hamilton
                     confided to her a yearning toward college, the great lady is said to have responded:
                    "My dear Edith, you can become learned; but, my dear Edith, I don't think much of
                        learning."22 This ambivalence was certainly congenial to the 
                        Hamilton
                     "grownups," who fostered and supported their daughters'
                    talents but did not encourage plans for a college education. Though Agnes's mother urged
                    her to take moral philosophy, she would not require it. There was one matter, however, in which she
                    was adamant: "Please remember that is one thing I send you to school for—to
                    learn how to arrange your hair in a neat smooth becoming manner—and
                    please do as I wish."23 Phoebe 
                        Hamilton
                     approved Agnes's desire to select her own dresses and 
                  
                     20 Phoebe 
                                Hamilton
                             to Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            , November 21, 1886.
                  
                     21 Quote from George S. Merriam, ed., Noah Porter: A
                                Memorial by Friends (
                                New York
                            , 1893), 3; see also William M. Sloane, "Sarah Porter: Her Unique
                            Educational Work," The Century, LX (July, 1900),
                            345–47; "A Notable Teacher," The Outlook,
                            LXIV (March 3, 1900), 477–78; Annette K. Baxter, "Sarah
                            Porter," Notable American Women (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1971), III, 88–89.
                  
                     22 This remark may of course be apocryphal. It is reported in Doris
                            Fielding Reid, Edith 
                                    Hamilton
                                : An Intimate Portrait (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 33.
                  
                     23 Phoebe 
                                Hamilton
                             to Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            , December 11, 1887.
               
                     sent her ample money for that purpose, but she also supported
                    her older daughter, Jessie, morally and financially in seeking good art instruction in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . She had a studio built for her daughters on the 
                        Hamilton
                     property, and she encouraged Agnes to secure a place in the "life
                    class" at Farmington and to send home all her drawings.24 As
                    Agnes's two years at Farmington ended, Phoebe recognized the latent danger of so generously
                    offering her daughters a glimpse of another world: "I am glad you think you will be
                    perfectly contented at home next year—I was afraid you would not be very
                        happy—"25
            
            At Farmington Agnes had made friends, won some praise for her art work, traveled to 
                        Hartford
                     and 
                        Boston
                    , and confronted the adolescent terrors of the first solitary encounters with the self.
                    The pleasures of school life had enabled her to establish a fragile peace with her
                    "stupidity." Near the end of her second year she reflected: "Well, I am
                    made as I am. It is a trouble, a trial. Others have worse … I can be very thankful for my
                    power of enjoying and liking people though it is all on my side."26
            
            Agnes also formed grand and vague plans for her future life in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . No matter what profession she chose, she resolved to do "some really good
                    work which shall help to make some women better than if I had not been here." Unlike her
                    friend Kitty Ludington, who would develop naturally into a "splendid, noble"
                    woman, Agnes would have to fit herself for such a role through hard attention to the duties at hand.
                    "Anyone can carry out some splendid work if they only have perseverance and that is
                    something which may be gained if it is not born in one."27 By plunging
                    now into her studies and her drawing, she would reap the benefits later—not in the vain
                    gratification of being thought less stupid but in the true nobility of a life consecrated to duty.
            For Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                     the idea of duty imparted unity to her life and simultaneously created the only real
                    conflicts that she ever knew. As the central tenet of her domestic, intellectual, and spiritual
                    life, "doing one's duty" was a peculiarly free-floating mandate that
                    invested objects, such as home and family members, and activities, such as reading, drawing,
                    learning, and working. In the decade after her return to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Agnes's inability to clarify and focus the unrelenting imperative of duty
                    splintered her days and obstructed her search for the purpose of her life.
            
               
                  24
                        Ibid., February 14, December 11, 1887.
               
                  25
                        Ibid., December 11, 1887.
               
                  26 Diary, April 18, 1888.
               
                  27
                        Ibid., March 6, 1887.
            
            
            This primal sense of duty was an integral part of the culture imparted to and interpreted for her at
                    home, in school, and at church. Agnes was raised in the Presbyterian church, and from childhood she
                    lived in an untroubled and earnest acceptance of the faith. While Alice's father
                    communicated to his children his intellectual passion for the historical and philosophical
                    intricacies of theology, religion in Agnes's household was a less intellectual, if no less
                    serious, affair.28 The conflicts that had earlier shaken the Presbyterian church
                    had receded, and the impact of the Social Gospel lay in the future when Agnes took her examination
                    and was admitted as a church member in 1885. Church affairs served as Agnes's first contact
                    with the community, and visiting ministers were probably her first palpable link with the world
                    beyond her city. She and her sisters went to hear Dwight Moody when he came to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ; she was less impressed than she had expected to be, but she appreciated his arguments
                    against scepticism. "I was very glad to hear what he said, for, although of course I
                    believe it all yet now if any time I should want to talk to any one I could argue much
                        better."29 She was more disturbed by the evangelical style of the
                    local Baptist minister: "I never heard such a sermon before, it was really painful to
                    listen to the Bible being yelled out in the manner that Mr. Northrup does it."30 She preferred the "earnest and not at all threatening or
                    tragical" approach of her own minister.31
            
            As a Presbyterian, Agnes was taught the value of an educated familiarity with scriptures and
                    doctrine, but what she sought and increasingly responded to in her religion was its aids to conduct
                    and attitude. At Miss Porter's she and Alice had supplemented their Sunday church-going
                    with evening prayer meetings with a few of their friends, choosing a topic, such as
                    "trust," and looking up readings in the Bible and religious literature to
                    illustrate it.32 She took deeply to heart all exhortations to self-improvement,
                    however bland, general, or frequent they may have been in adult discourse to this community of
                    vulnerable girls. A talk from Miss Porter on kindness toward others pricked her raw conscience and
                    sparked a new resolution to speak kindly in the evening to any girl she wronged in thoughtless
                    conversation during the day.33
                    
                  
                     28 Alice 
                                Hamilton
                            , Exploring the Dangerous Trades, 27–29. An undated
                            letter from Phoebe 
                                Hamilton
                             to Jessie 
                                Hamilton
                            , containing a severe reprimand of her daughter for playing games with friends
                            on a Sunday, suggests that strict religious observance was a requirement for the 
                                Hamilton
                             children.
                  
                     29 Diary, February 21, 1885.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., August 15, 1886.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., October 4, 1885.
                  
                     32 See, e.g., ibid., November 16, 1886.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., December 12, 1886.
               
                     She was particularly stirred by two sermons delivered by George
                    Barker Stevens of Yale in November of her second year. Focusing on the duty of the individual to
                    strive to lead a noble life, to shape his or her thoughts through judicious reading, and to bend all
                    of his or her energies on one goal or object in life, these talks chimed perfectly with
                    Agnes's new concern with her future. "Both sermons were just what I wanted, just
                    what I need. They help me to look forward to next year with perfect pleasure to plan it all out as I
                    never thought I should be able to." And she confessed: "I keep making plans and
                    resolutions but in every day life they come to nothing."34
            
            At the back of her diary for 1886–1887, her first year at Farmington, Agnes began
                    supplementing her daily schedules for Easter and summer vacations with broader resolutions, cast as
                    religious commandments, which she either composed or adapted from other sources: "Do what
                    little in thy power and God will assist thy good will." "Never be entirely idle;
                    but either be reading or writing or praying or meditating." "Those things that a
                    man cannot mend in himself or in others he ought to suffer patiently, until God order them
                    otherwise." "Set yourself earnestly to see what you were made to do, and then set
                    yourself earnestly to do it."35 As Agnes accepted her own limitations,
                    she looked increasingly to her religion to "ennoble" and impart to what she saw as
                    her humdrum, unattractive, "stupid" young womanhood the romance at least of
                    struggle, sacrifice, and victory. She might never equal her beloved Alice and Jessie in brains or
                    social adeptness—far less approach her somewhat austere and formidable cousin
                    Edith—but she could dedicate herself, over and over, to do "what little was in
                    her power," and God would assist.
            The rounds of resolutions, backsliding, anguished self-upbraiding, and renewed resolutions continued
                    at home in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     as Agnes set herself to the multiple tasks of self-improvement. The joy of being with
                    her sisters and cousins may have been tempered by an unacknowledged envy of their fixed ambitions.
                    Edith was stubbornly preparing herself for the Bryn Mawr entrance examinations, while Alice resolved
                    in the year after leaving Farmington to become a doctor. In retrospect, both sisters would attribute
                    their decisions to pursue professions to their father's declining fortunes and the
                    probability of having to support themselves, but 
                        Montgomery
                        Hamilton
                     was still able and willing 
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., November 27, 1887.
                  
                     35 These resolutions are examples of those found at the back of Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            's Diary for [1884]–1887.
               
                     to finance the higher education of a determined daughter. More
                    revealing is Alice's justification for choosing medicine per se: that it
                    would give her professional autonomy and the freedom to travel and to deal with many kinds of
                    people. So, while Edith studied trigonometry and polished her Latin and Greek, Alice made up her
                    almost total deficiency in scientific knowledge and then entered the tiny,
                    "third-rate" medical school in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .36 Agnes loyally supported these projects, particularly
                    Alice's; when her cousin entered medical school, Agnes wrote that it was "the
                    fulfilling of one of the dearest wishes of my life."37
            
            Agnes herself found a new field of activity to supplement her reading, art work, and home duties. She
                    began to volunteer her services at "
                        Nebraska
                    ," a nondenominational mission and social center across the St. Mary's
                    River in the poorer section of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . At first she took a class of young girls in the Sunday school sponsored by the
                    Christian Endeavor Society, a national interdenominational young people's group with a
                    missionary flavor and a program that emphasized the extension of Christian education through special
                    Sunday school classes taught outside the aegis of any one church.38 The Nebraska
                    classes were organized so that the teacher might stay with the same group of boys or girls for a
                    period of years.
            Agnes judged her teaching harshly. She rebuked herself for spending too little time preparing her
                    lessons and for teaching them in a "lifeless, empty" manner. "And yet it
                    was every word that fourteen girls will hear of Christ for seven days; every bit of high thought, of
                    encouragement, of help, of strength in the midst of low squalor, troubles, frightful
                        temptations."39 She also despaired of the girls themselves:
                    "They are turning out so dreadfully … They flit from one home to another, one
                    occupation to another, one resolution to another, one wish to another, never the same two days in
                        succession."40 Not surprisingly, she noted in them the same faults
                    she berated in herself. As she visited their 
                  
                     36 Alice 
                                Hamilton
                            , Exploring the Dangerous Trades, 38; Reid, Edith 
                                    Hamilton
                                , 33–34; Diary, October 9, November 22, 1889.
                  
                     37 Diary, December 7, 1891.
                  
                     38 The animus and antecedents of the Christian Endeavor Society are
                            best explained in the works of its founder, Francis E. Clark. See especially Clark, Christian Endeavor in All Lands (
                                Boston
                            , 1906), 17–62. An account that places the Christian Endeavor Society
                            in the context of other nineteenth-century young people's religious groups is Frank
                            Otis Erb, The Development of the Young People's Movement (
                                Chicago
                            , 1917), especially 52–67. See also Sydney E. Ahlstrom, A Religious History of the American People (
                                New Haven
                            , 1972), 858.
                  
                     39 Diary, November 22, 1891.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., September 25, 1892.
               
                     homes over the years, she encountered part of the city that she
                    had seen little of as a child.
            Teaching Sunday school was a natural outgrowth of Agnes's Christian upbringing as well as a
                    traditional activity for a young woman of her class and education. This occupation led only
                    gradually to a fuller commitment to social service. In her early twenties, increasingly restless in
                    her homebound life and undoubtedly goaded by her cousins' example, Agnes groped for
                    something larger, some grander outlet for her energies. In 1889 she enrolled in a course on the
                    history of architecture offered through the Society for Encouraging Study at Home.41 She was fascinated by her reading and began dreaming and talking of becoming an architect.
                    Above all she dreamed of leaving 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , if only for a while. "I do so want to go. I am getting into the same state I
                    was in before I went to school. Then I had that to look forward to, now it seems as if I should
                    never, never leave." This outburst was followed almost immediately by remorse. "It
                    seems to me that I am peculiarly blessed to have such splendid relations. And it is entirely due to
                    them if there is anything worthy in me."42 By spring she was laying
                    tentative plans to go to Cornell to study architecture. In August, on vacation with her cousins at
                    their cottage on Mackinac Island, 
                        Michigan
                    , she saw some of her old Farmington friends. She was shocked to find that one of them
                    believed, "in these days, in this country," that a young woman's only
                    alternative to marriage was the religious life; yet, the thought gave her pause. "It made
                    me think how little I do go in for a religious life whether for one reason or another and how that
                    should be the one motive and how it is only a little part of my work and thought, for of course Miss
                    Budd meant active religious work, which I try to bring in after my other plans are
                        settled."43
            
            Agnes's hope of attending architectural school rose and faded regularly over the next five
                    years. Despite her mother's support for the plan, Agnes's father, unlike her Uncle
                    Mont, steadily refused to invest in a professional education for his daughter. (He also forbade any
                    one of them to take a railroad journey alone, which necessitated various subterfuges by both mother
                    and daughters over the years.44) Her cousin Alice, having gone on to the
                    excellent medical school at 
                        Ann Arbor
                    , urged Agnes to find 
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., October 9, 1889.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., January 26, 1890.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., August [?], 1890; also ibid., February 11, April
                            13, 1890; Alice 
                                Hamilton
                            , Exploring the Dangerous Trades, 41.
                  
                     44 Phoebe 
                                Hamilton
                             to Jessie 
                                Hamilton
                            , July 23, 1893; Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                             to Jessie 
                                Hamilton
                            , September 13, 1892, reel 18.
               
                    
                    
                  FORT WAYNE, INDIANA, c. 1889
               
                    
                    
                  LOOKING NORTH ON CALHOUN STREET FROM MAIN STREET
                  
                  Courtesy 
                                Allen County
                             Public Library, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
               
                     some means of circumventing her father: "I do believe
                    nothing could make me much happier, than to know that you were really doing the work you wish to,
                    that you were no longer making a useless, purposeless sacrifice of your life." She also
                    perceived that more stood in Agnes's way than lack of funds. "And don't
                    give it up," Alice wrote bluntly, "from any false sense of duty."45
            
            Alice was prescient. When Agnes's father died in May, 1895, the major external obstacle to
                    her leaving 
                        Fort Wayne
                     fell away. She began writing for catalogs again and thought of entering school the next
                    year. Her mother was not well, though, after the strain of her husband's illness. Further,
                    Agnes had begun having headaches in March. These continued, regularly if not intensely, for at least
                    the next two years, worrying her mother and from time to time requiring bed rest. Thoughts of
                    architectural school faded.46
            
            It is facile but certainly tempting to suggest that Agnes's sudden and continuing ill health
                    provided a "reason" to stay in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . At the very least it was likely a response, however indirect, to deflected emotional
                    reactions and internal tensions and frustrations. During the month after her father's death
                    she took stock of her soul: 
                        So many thoughts have come up during these two weeks, the review of these last seven years
                            especially, the discontent, the rebellion, the anger, just because I could not have my own
                            way. I thought I wanted work, study, aim, as if I could not have had them under any
                            circumstances. I see now I wanted to do something remarkable, to be somebody. It was pride,
                            unrestful ambition … To please myself by being an architect, a missionary, some
                            grand thing with one big stroke, I had been worrying all winter over that. How at the
                            beginning I am, the lowest beginning, just beginning to see God's way of using us,
                            where He has put us, where He leads us and it is the lesson I have been teaching in Sunday
                            school since I left Farmington. I wanted to be clever, interesting, learned, and I thought I
                            only lacked opportunity. Poor, stupid, commonplace old self.47
                  
                    
                
            Agnes had now elevated even her desire for an embracing life purpose to a sin—the sin of
                    selfish and ambitious pride. Her self-portrait as an angry, rebellious young woman is striking in
                    its incongruity with her outward activities. She had left Farmington at nineteen; she was now
                    twenty-six. Her responsibilities at Nebraska had gradually enlarged. By the end of 1894 she managed
                    the "Noon Rest," a tea-and-lunch service for working women; she helped administer
                    the League of Clubs as well as 
                  
                     45 Alice 
                                Hamilton
                             to Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            , August 31, 1893, reel 29.
                  
                     46 Diary, March 30, 1895; Phoebe 
                                Hamilton
                             to Jessie 
                                Hamilton
                            , February 21, May 29, 1897.
                  
                     47 Diary, May 17, 1895.
               
                     Temperance and Ladies Society affairs; and for three years she
                    had been president of the Nebraska branch of the Christian Endeavor. In 1894 she had led in founding
                    the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     YWCA and had been elected its first president. Instrumental in involving more members
                    of her own church in the religious and civic activities of 
                        Nebraska
                    , Agnes had taken a prominent local role in the channeling of missionary energy into
                    social as well as religious uplift that characterized the first stirrings of the Social Gospel in
                    many comfortable middle-class neighborhoods and staid Protestant congregations.48 Though Alice was impatient with Agnes's excessive and "false"
                    sense of duty, she truly admired her cousin and took pains to tell her so. In an amusing mirror
                    image of Agnes's self-indictment for unworthy motives, Alice saw her own stimulating life
                    as a medical student as "the most selfish I have ever led, even more so than when I was at
                    Farmington"; and she assured Agnes: "After reading one of [your letters] I feel a
                    little as I do when I lay down Kingsley's Life and Letters … as if I had had my
                    eyes opened to the beautiful, unconscious usefulness of some lives and the conscious and selfish
                    uselessness of my own."49
            
            The growth of Agnes's church and community activities was accompanied by a gradual and
                    coherent maturation of her social attitudes. Because she was by nature reflective and acutely
                    self-conscious, it is not surprising that there was always an active interplay in her life between
                    experience and thought—between life as she saw and tried to live it and the distillation
                    of others' observations, experiences, and exhortations available in speeches and sermons
                    and above all in books. Since childhood Agnes had been a careful and constant, if not a voracious,
                    reader. She kept monthly lists of books read in the back of her diaries and conscientiously admitted
                    to the popular novels and tales as well as to the more instructive tomes and classics. In the record
                    for 1885–1886, Sir Walter Scott (Redgauntlet, Anne of Geierstein)
                    jousts with Jonathan Swift, Shakespeare, Goethe, and Lessing, while Jean Ingelow (Off
                        the Skelligs and John Jerome), Mrs. Alexander (A Second
                        Life, Her Dearest Foe, etc.), and Mrs. Ewing (A Flatiron for a Farthing,
                        Mary's Meadow, and Jackanapes) crowd Jane Austen (Persuasion),
                    Mrs. Gaskell (Wives and Daughters), Charlotte 
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., September 30, December 18,1892, September 28, November 28,1893,
                            April 8, June 23,1894; also see text of Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            's statement to her church's Christian Endeavor at end of
                            Diary for 1887 (this is out of chronological order). Alice 
                                Hamilton
                             to Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            , December 11,1892; Griswold, Pictorial History of 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , I, 528.
                  
                     49 Alice 
                                Hamilton
                             to Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            , November 27, 1893.
               
                     Brontë (Jane Eyre), and George
                    Eliot (Middlemarch, Daniel Deronda, and The Mill on the Floss).
                    She also read Thackeray, Byron's ChiIde Harold, an early novel of William
                    Dean Howells (The Lady of the Aroostook), and Charles Kingsley's Hypatia. At fifteen she wrote that one reason she liked a particular volume of
                    Christmas stories was "because they are English and I like anything English," and
                    certainly she was steeped in both the Victorian production and the Victorian canon of
                    "great books." Just as fairy tales and Arthurian romance had permeated the 
                        Hamilton
                     children's games and fantasies, so the landscape and sensibilities of
                    Victorian literature shaped Agnes's world view in adolescence.50
            
            It is not surprising, then, that Agnes found her bearings in social thought through English writers.
                    She first encountered Kingsley during her school days and then began reading him in earnest, often
                    aloud with Jessie, after she returned to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Kingsley's Christian Socialism exhorted social salvation through individual
                    regeneration. He deplored the social indifference which allowed the appalling living and working
                    conditions of industrial Britain to fester. Sanitary advances, labor reform, and political
                    reconstruction were urgent, but programmatic structural change was pointless without an accompanying
                    class reconciliation attainable only by the rededication of each individual, rich or poor, to the
                    social ideals of Jesus Christ. In 
                  
                            Alton
                         Locke, perhaps his most influential novel, he portrayed the human toll of a
                    class-bound industrial 
                        England
                     in the person of a young working-class poet, torn between loyalty to his fellows in the
                    Chartist movement and the natural temptation to let himself be taken up and groomed for literary
                    success by upper-class patrons. 
                  
                            Alton
                         Locke spares neither the Chartists—misguided and quixotic in their
                    single-minded concentration on a slate of reforms—nor their conservative antagonists.
                    Kingsley also indicts the Church of 
                        England
                     for alienating the lower classes (he was one of the most outspoken opponents of the 
                        Oxford
                     Movement) and the evangelistic sects for their narrow-minded opportunism. 
                        Alton
                     Locke, the poor tailor-poet, comes to realize both the vanity of aesthetic beauty that
                    only the privileged may enjoy and the futility of a political program that exacerbates, rather than
                    eliminates, class hatred. He finds true spiritual ease only when he accepts Jesus Christ
                    "as the great Reformer; and yet as the true conservative … the true
                    demagogue—the champion of the poor; and yet as the true King, above and below all earthly
                    rank; on whose will alone all real superiority of man to man, all the time-justified and
                    time-honoured 
                  
                     50 Diary, Friday, December [?], 1883.
               
                     usages of the family, the society, the nation, stand and shall
                    stand for ever."51
            
            What perhaps spoke more directly to Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                     than Kingsley's vivid descriptions of the social problems of Victorian 
                        England
                     were his prescriptive strictures on the Christian individual's inward attitude
                    and outward behavior. Like so many other Victorian reformers who embraced the ideal of an
                    "organic" society, Kingsley harked back to an idealized Middle Ages for the
                    personal ideals of chivalry, honor, and duty that would provide the glue for such a social order. He
                    enjoined upon women particularly a clear understanding of the true meaning of personal heroism in
                    social service as entailing "the going beyond the limits of strict duty … [but]
                    never … the going out of the path of strict duty." 
                        I have known girls think they were doing a fine thing by leaving uncongenial parents or
                            disagreeable sisters, and cutting out for themselves, as they fancied, a more useful and
                            elevated line of life than that of mere home duties … and in the name of God,
                            neglecting the command of God to honour their father and mother.52
                  
                     The sting of such a rebuke for the restless and hyperconscientious Agnes may be imagined.
            By 1892 Agnes had gone on from Kingsley to his fellow cleric and Christian Socialist Frederick
                    Denison Maurice, who founded the Working Men's College in 
                        London
                     in 1854. Maurice's Life and Letters, compiled by his son,
                    became regular reading for Agnes, and she copied into her diaries long passages on the need for
                    personal strength to carry out God's mission.53 Interestingly, she
                    seems to have come late to John Ruskin, the touchstone of Victorian aesthetics and social thought;
                    she encountered his work as part of her prescribed architectural reading. Though she appreciated
                    Ruskin, she was not an uncritical convert. She was most attracted to "his grand idea,
                    [that] a man's religion must enter all he does, all he says, all he thinks, if it be true
                    religion." She dismissed his "objection to machine-made articles" as
                    impractical and anachronistic.54 While Agnes introduced Alice to Kingsley and
                    Maurice, Alice urged her cousin to try Thomas Carlyle and 
                  
                     51 Charles Kingsley, 
                        
                                    Alton
                                 Locke, Tailor and Poet: An Autobiography (
                                London
                            , 1912), 339.
                  
                     52 Charles Kingsley, "Heroism," in Sanitary and Social Lectures and Essays (
                                London
                            , 1880), 244–45. By the end of 1892 Agnes had read Hypatia, 
                                    Alton
                                 Locke, Two Years Ago, and Out of the Deep. In the
                            "commonplace" section of her Diary for 1894–1895 she refers to
                            Kingsley's letters and essays.
                  
                     53 See end of Diary for 1892; see also Alice 
                                Hamilton
                             to Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            , [January?] 8, 1893.
                  
                     54 Diary, December 13,1893; see also ibid., December
                            14,1890, June 23,1894.
               
                     Matthew Arnold. "I am in love with Matthew
                    Arnold," she declared; but Agnes apparently never shared that passion.55
            
            Agnes seems to have been most attracted to those authors who offered her clear guides to living,
                    upbraided her for her personal lapses, and inspired her to further struggle. Her literary judgment
                    was intelligent but not profound nor primarily aesthetic. She particularly enjoyed
                    memoirs—the "life and letters" genre—such
                    as those of Kingsley, Maurice, Thomas Arnold (by Dean Arthur Penrhyn Stanley), and Baroness Frances
                    Bunsen, whose dictum, "A man's character is his history," inspired in
                    Agnes a new bout of self-reproach: "I have blamed circumstances for myself and do
                    constantly though it is such a false thought."56 She also read sermons
                    by Stanley and Phillips Brooks, as well as Thomas a Kempis, Royal Way of the Holy
                    Cross (to which she turned after her mother had to refuse her a nostalgic autumn visit to
                    Farmington), and Sir Thomas 
                        Brown
                    's Religio Medici.57
            
            From the fundamental tracts of English Christian Socialism Agnes moved in the early 1890s to
                    contemporary assessments of American social problems. Her work at Nebraska brought her face to face
                    with the grim effects of the depression of 1893–1894 on working-class neighborhoods, and
                    she as well as Alice, who was then interning in 
                        Boston
                    , saw firsthand that a man's inability to find work did not always stem from
                    "laziness or drunkenness."58 Agnes read the articles and
                    editorials on labor issues in the popular journals that the family received. Though not
                    unsympathetic to the trade unions' attempt to aid their members in hard times, she deplored
                    Eugene V. Debs's action in pulling out his American Railway Union members in support of the
                    Pullman workers in the summer of 1894. The railroad union, she felt, could have 
                  
                     55 Alice 
                                Hamilton
                             to Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            , January 8, July 13,1893; the quotation is from ibid., August
                            14, 1893.
                  
                     56 Diary, March 22, 1893.
                  
                     57 See reading list in Diary for 1891–1892; see also ibid., entries for September 4, 1890, February [?], 1891.
                  
                     58 Alice 
                                Hamilton
                             to Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            , January 25, 1894. The depression of the early 1890s was a shattering
                            experience for many social workers and marked a turning point in their thought. At this time
                            many early settlement residents rejected the classic distinction between
                            "deserving" and "undeserving" poor that had been
                            popularized by organized charity and moved toward an acceptance of environmental factors as
                            determinative in causing poverty. Some began cooperating actively with struggling labor
                            unions in the garment and other trades. Woods and Kennedy, The Settlement
                                Horizon, 49–50,172–76. Pointed firsthand testimony of the
                            effect of the depression on the social attitudes and activities of the settlement workers
                            may be found in the Fifth Annual Report of the College Settlements Association,
                                1893–1894 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1894), 20–21,34–35,44–45. See also Addams,
                                Twenty Years at Hull-House, 159–66; Vida D. Scudder, On Journey (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 153–54; Robert H. Bremner, From the Depths: The
                                Discovery of Poverty in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1956), 21–22.
               
                     shown its support of the Pullman strikers in contributions of
                    food or money rather than in jeopardizing the livelihoods of thousands of men. Worst of all was the
                    exacerbation of class divisions that the strike entailed.59 She responded even
                    more sharply to William Jennings Bryan's campaign in 1896. On election day she wrote:
                    "Today is decided whether the men of education and sense, the men of wisdom, rule our
                    country or whether wild outlawry, Bryan, Debs, Coxie [sic]; whether our people can
                    be taken in by any and every new wind that promises them in empty words, money that will not have to
                    be worked for; whether we shall have for our president a man who sets one part of his people against
                        another…."60
            
            It is hard to say how much of Agnes's political thinking was independent, even by her
                    mid-twenties, and how much was shaped by family habit and social assumptions. Certainly the
                    half-conscious social attitudes of childhood lingered. (She readily used the adjective
                    "common" to describe people she found vulgar—those who pretended to a
                    social status their lack of refinement belied.61) At the same time, under the
                    tutelage of English and American social thinkers, she had become more sophisticated about her own
                    economic position ("We are not even moderately rich, but the whole of what we have is
                    unearned"), and she took pride in practicing locally the social ideals they preached. She
                    boasted that in the city's YWCA "all are equally members, those who give and those
                    who take … It is not a charity given by one class to another but the poorest member, the
                    hardest worker, is carrying on this organization for mutual help as much as the richest woman with
                    all her time at her disposal." The one exclusionary rule, that members of the Board of
                    Managers must be drawn from the Protestant churches, "places the association, once and for
                    ever, in the right hands and is the only one necessary."62
            
            The Americans whom she read largely followed the lines laid down by Kingsley and Maurice. Richard T.
                    Ely was a professor of economics at Johns Hopkins and later at 
                        Wisconsin
                    . He joined several other rebels against classical economics in founding the American
                    Economic Association, which was dedicated to an ethical and activist approach to the study of
                    economics, its chief purpose being, as Ely put it, "to bring science to the aid of
                        Christianity."63
                    
                  
                     59 Diary, July 6, 1891.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., November 3, 1896.
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., February 8, 1894; Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                             to Phoebe 
                                Hamilton
                            , September 24, 1898, reel 17.
                  
                     62 Diary, January 17, 1895, November 13, 1896.
               
                     Ely was another advocate of the concept of society as an
                    organism, in whose ideal state every individual's capacities could reach their fullest
                    development. The duty of the true Christian was to dedicate his life to the good of the whole; true
                    philanthropy implied, not handouts, but personal service aimed at enriching the lives of others.64 "Socialism" was not a program of economic redistribution
                    but the ethical antithesis of selfish individualism. Agnes was impressed by Ely's concrete
                    proposals for political and social reform, which included public ownership of utilities, and she
                    bravely swallowed his recommendation of an inheritance tax "to lessen the
                    ‘unearned increment.’" She was also reassured by his gradualist
                    approach to social change; she agreed that "a sudden change is contrary to all nature and
                    must necessarily put back and keep back progress."65
            
            Through Ely's Socialism and Social Aspects of
                    Christianity as well as John Bascom's Sociology and George
                    Hodges's Faith and Social Service, Agnes encountered the American brand
                    of Christian Socialism, or, as it was more frequently called, social Christianity. This complex of
                    ideas was endorsed by a broad and loose agglomeration of academics, publicists, Protestant
                    ministers, and social activists who were able to agree on the vague but stirring proposition that
                    the Kingdom of God, complete with sanitary reforms, judicious economic regulation, and social and
                    cultural enrichment for all, should be established here on earth.66 In the same
                    years—1895–1897—Agnes first met representatives of the settlement
                    movement. Graham Taylor came to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in late 1896. Taylor was the founder of 
                        Chicago
                     Commons, after Hull-House perhaps the most prominent settlement in 
                        Chicago
                    . Ordained as a Congregational minister, Taylor had been inspired 
                  
                     63 Richard T. Ely, Social Aspects of Christianity (
                                New York
                            , 1889), 25. Ely was familiar with the English Christian Socialists. One of the
                            best accounts of the founding of the American Economic Association may be found in Daniel M.
                            Fox, The Discovery of Abundance: Simon N. Patten and the Transformation of
                                Social Theory (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 35–39.
                  
                     64 Ely, Social Aspects of Christianity, especially
                            100–10, 123–32. For the formation of Ely's ideas see Richard
                            T. Ely, Ground Under Our Feet: An Autobiography (
                                New York
                            , 1938), especially 41–165. Dorothy Ross offers an excellent
                            discussion of Ely's ideological retreat from his early socialist fervor in the
                            context of the shifting American political climate of the 1880's and 1890s. Dorothy
                            Ross, "Socialism and American Liberalism: Academic Social Thought in the
                            1880's," Perspectives in American History, XI
                            (1977–1978), 7–79.
                  
                     65 Diary, January 10, 17, 1895.
                  
                     66 See Dombrowski, Early Days of Christian
                            Socialism, especially 91–99, 110–20. Several very good general
                            treatments of the Social Gospel movement are Henry F. May, Protestant Churches
                                and Industrial America (1949; new ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1967); William G. McLoughlin, Revivals, Awakenings, and Reform:
                                An Essay on Religion and Social Change in America, 1607–1977 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1978), chapter 5.
               
                     during his first decade of pastoral work in
                            
                  Hartford, Connecticut
               , by the examples of Dwight Moody and Josiah Strong. He was
                    appointed professor of "practical theology" at 
                        Hartford
                     Theological Seminary in the late 1880s. In 1894 he moved to 
                        Chicago
                     to found a Department of Christian Sociology at the 
                        Chicago
                     Theological Seminary, considerably more liberal than 
                        Hartford
                     and receptive to his insistence on teaching the social aspects of the ministry
                    "inductively," through field work at the settlement he proposed to establish.67 Taylor struck Agnes as "intensely ugly," soft and
                    indistinct in his speech, and powerfully attractive in "the truths that he
                    utters." He delivered a sermon on the Incarnation in her church: "As Christ came
                    here to live among men," she recorded his message, "so we must live among those to
                    whom we carry the salvation." A week later—the day before her twenty-eighth
                    birthday—he gave an "intensely interesting" public lecture on social
                    democracy. 
                        [He] ascribes wrong in politics, economics, all evils to lack of social democracy, to
                            classes, differences, distinctions; Christ strikes at the evil by the whole Gospel, by every
                            effort of his life, by every word …; these we continue to preach and never to
                            act; this causes evil on all sides to the fortunate and unfortunate;the one side longing to
                            pity, to love, to do, the other longing, dying to be pitied, to be loved, to be done for;
                            both full of resulting discontent.
                     Taylor too invoked the organic metaphor of society as "one body" whose
                    parts must live in interdependent harmony.68
            
            Agnes also heard Florence Kelley of Hull-House speak about the sweat-shop labor system at the
                    Women's Club League course in November, 1896, and she may have been responsible for
                    inviting Kelley to return in January to talk about settlement work. For Christmas in 1896 Agnes
                    asked for Hull-House Maps and Papers, a collection of articles and neighborhood
                    surveys by the settlement residents, and around the same time she subscribed to 
                  
                            Chicago
                         Commons, a monthly that emphasized settlement work and related social and
                    economic issues.69
            
            Agnes's new interest in settlement work was a natural extension of her long discipleship to
                    Charles Kingsley as well as her more recent readings in the American "school" of
                    Christian sociology. Graham Taylor's lectures in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     made the lineage explicit. Around this time Agnes had another acute attack of
                    self-doubt and conflict about the purpose of her life. "O Christ lead me out of
                    this," she prayed at the end of January, 1897. 
                  
                     67 Graham Taylor, Pioneering on Social Frontiers (
                                Chicago
                            , 1930), especially 379–83.
                  
                     68 Diary, November 22, 30, 1896.
                  
                     69
                            lbid., November 10, 1896, January 10, 1897.
               
                    
                    
                  AGNES HAMILTON, READING AT HOME 1896
                  The Schlesinger Library, Radcliffe College.
                "Show me and show me by work. It is idleness that is taking away my love. If it
                    seem best that I must stay on here, show me each day Thy work. If it [were] best to rise up and go,
                    give me Thy strength. Let not the thought of my self, my pleasure, above all my self-esteem, come
                        in."70
            
            In the course of things it was Alice 
                        Hamilton
                     who first entered settlement life. In the spring of 1897 she accepted a position
                    teaching at the women's medical college of Northwestern University in 
                        Chicago
                    . Alice's ideas about settlements at this point were hazy. Unlike Agnes she had
                    not made a special study of them; caught up in her medical studies for the previous six years, she
                    had confronted the human costs of poverty and urban congestion 
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., January 31, 1897. Although Alice says in her autobiography that she
                            and Agnes "definitely" chose settlement work in the spring of 1895 after
                            hearing Jane Addams at the local Methodist church (Exploring the Dangerous
                                Trades, 54), this scenario is not confirmed either in their correspondence or in
                            Agnes's diary. Alice 
                                Hamilton
                             to Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            , May 10, 1897.
               
                     in her case work, particularly in 
                        Boston
                    , but she felt intellectually drawn toward medical research rather than practice.71 Still, she was intrigued by what she had heard of settlement life, largely
                    from Agnes, and almost whimsically decided to try it. 
                        If I decide on 
                                Chicago
                            , I want to live either in Hull House or in Graham Taylor's 
                                Chicago
                             Commons, probably the latter. I think from what you told me that he is
                            perfectly willing to have working people go and live there even if they have no time to give
                            to—well to whatever it is that he does. I know that I haven't at all the
                            motives in going that you would have, but I know it will do me quantities of good, and
                            perhaps the motives will come in time.72
                  
                     Upon applying, Alice was chagrined to find that places at both settlements were scarce and
                    reserved for those who could contribute at least part of their time to the work. "The whole
                    thing made me feel very small," she reported to Agnes. "It is so tremendously
                    cultured, and all the people aim to be specialists in sociology or kindergartening or manual
                    training or art or music or anything else that is taught there. I know I would never be accepted by
                        them."73 She had resigned herself to apartment life when in
                    September a place at Hull-House suddenly opened up. She felt like a "miserable
                    hypocrite" when Florence Kelley told her that she had been accepted on the merit of being
                    one of the "
                        Fort Wayne
                     Hamiltons," whom Kelley had liked so much during her visit the previous
                    winter. Further, she found herself disconcertingly "rattled" by Jane Addams, who
                    was, simply, "quite perfect." "I really am quite school-girly in my
                    relations with her … I know when she comes into the room, I have pangs of idiotic
                    jealousy toward the residents she is intimate with."74 Struggling as
                    many others would for words to convey Addams's magnetic yet almost ethereal presence, she
                    wrote: "Miss Addams is a quiet, sad-eyed woman, with a great weariness in her face which
                    impresses you as having looked upon the misery and sin of the world and having accepted them as an
                    inevitable burden which she must bear with no hope of ever reforming them."75 Despite her misgivings Alice safely passed the six-week probationary period in November
                        
                  
                     71 Alice 
                                Hamilton
                            , Exploring the Dangerous Trades, 95; Alice 
                                Hamilton
                             to Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            , January 25, 1894, December 6, 1896.
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., May 10, 1897.
                  
                     73
                            Ibid., June 13, 1897.
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., October 13, 1897.
                  
                     75
                            Ibid., May 10, 1897. In the summer of 1894, recently arrived in 
                                Chicago
                             and already a frequent visitor at Hull-House, John Dewey wrote to his wife in
                            Europe: "Either I forget between times, or Miss Addams feels & shows the
                            burden of life more & more—The expression of her face is sad to the point
                            of haunting one. One feels like an intruder." John Dewey to [his wife], August 31,
                            1894, microfilm copy, John Dewey Papers (Hull-House, 
                                Chicago
                            ).
               
                     and promptly urged Agnes to come visit her at Hull-House.
                    "I know that to be in the same house with Miss Addams and to sit at the same table with her
                    is enough to make it more than worth while for you to stay even if you didn't come to see
                    me. Do, do, do it."76
            
            Agnes's stay at Hull-House in the winter of 1898 was for her an exciting and, in retrospect,
                    momentous experience. Her letters home to her mother recount frantically busy days and barely
                    digested impressions of settlement residents, "neighbors," and visitors. Eager to
                    be accepted as "one of the people"—that is, the
                    residents—despite her guest status, she volunteered for the smallest tasks, helping to
                    recruit men for snow-shovelling jobs, delivering letters to 
                        Chicago
                     Commons, and opening the front door in the evenings. "At the last moment the
                    manager [of the Hull-House Players' current production] needed another white apron and to
                    my joy I had one in my trunk which I rushed for."77 She also filled in
                    for absent club leaders, judged a paper hat contest, and stuffed envelopes with political
                    broadsides. Hull-House was absorbed in its second full-scale campaign against the incumbent alderman
                    of the Nineteenth Ward, the popular and corrupt Johnny Powers. Agnes witnessed strategy sessions
                    around the dinner table and surreptitiously listened in on local Republican Club meetings (from
                    which women were commonly barred).78
            
            Within a week Agnes was offered a regular "job" for the rest of her visit. The
                    morning doortender had left the settlement for a nursing position, and Addams wanted Agnes to fill
                    in. "She said something about Miss Holdin's manner not being all that was
                    desirable and insinuating that mine was suited to the circumstances, which was very pleasing in
                    her." (Had Addams been as other-worldly as she seemed, she might not have had such
                    remarkable success in attracting a lifelong series of just such loyal aides as Agnes.) Though Alice
                    protested that her cousin should use her time in 
                        Chicago
                     to "fly around to see more," Agnes demurred: "I am very much
                    pleased to be wanted and I think [Alice] is pleased, too." When one of the older residents
                    told her that the others all hoped she would stay on for good, Agnes's cup of happiness
                    overflowed, "Aren't they fine to want me? I feel so proud and pleased and
                        grateful."79
            
            
               
                  76 Alice 
                            Hamilton
                         to Agnes 
                            Hamilton
                        , November 4, 1897.
               
                  77 Agnes 
                            Hamilton
                         to Phoebe 
                            Hamilton
                        , January 27, January 30, 1898.
               
                  78 A firsthand account of this episode is in Addams, Twenty
                            Years at Hull-House, 315–18; see also Davis, Spearheads for
                            Reform, 152–62; Agnes 
                            Hamilton
                         to Phoebe 
                            Hamilton
                        , January 30, 1898.
               
                  79 Agnes 
                            Hamilton
                         to Phoebe 
                            Hamilton
                        , February 1, 1898.
            
            
            What was to be a stay of two weeks stretched to almost two months as the residents urged her to stay
                    and as she, like Alice, fell under the spell of Jane Addams. "The more I see of her, the
                    more I feel attracted to her. She is such a sane person looking at things so squarely and honestly
                    and above all so full of love."80 Agnes's responsibilities
                    increased when Addams asked her to take on some of the burden of her already vast correspondence.
                    "She has an idea that I write good letters and I am sure she has never seen one that I have
                    written, and I hope she never will."81 Agnes was also pressed to fill
                    in for the woman who organized the Hull-House club work when she took her vacation in late February.
            As Agnes lingered on, she repeatedly apologized to her mother for staying away so long and assured
                    her that she could leave at any time if needed at home. The great attraction of Hull-House, she
                    admitted, was that she was "wanted." "You see I am getting puffed up, and
                    considering myself of some use."82 Like other Hull-House residents, who
                    believed in living as "naturally" as they would uptown, Agnes took advantage of 
                        Chicago
                    's attractions; she juxtaposed visits to the police court and women's
                    club meetings with evenings at the theater. She cast a sceptical eye, however, on the myriad causes
                    and platforms she heard expounded at Hull-House. "It is amusing to hear people, each one
                    with his own scheme for setting us all straight and so sure that any other scheme would wreck us
                    worse than ever. Looking at them all has quite cured me of any one …. "83 What held her was less the external interest of life in 
                        Chicago
                    , though this was compelling in its scope and novelty, than the exhilarating sense of
                    being needed in such a place.
            It seems strange that a woman who was already a recognized leader in church and civic affairs in her
                    own city should derive such satisfaction from tending the door and answering letters in a distant
                    settlement house. An interesting juxtaposition of thoughts in one of her letters home hints at an
                    explanation: "Do tell me any time you want me. It is great fun in one way, and a very
                    useful experience in another with no fun at all but a good deal of misery. It is fine to know Miss
                    Addams and to see the way she deals with things and people. She is thirty seven years old, she told
                    me last Sunday, and came here when she was twenty eight. But, what I started out to say was that if
                    you need me, I should feel terribly about staying."84 Agnes was
                    twenty-nine, ten 
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., February 8, 1898.
                  
                     81
                            Ibid., March 4, 1898.
                  
                     82
                            Ibid., February 8, 1898.
                  
                     83
                            Ibid., February 8, 23, 1898.
                  
                     84
                            Ibid., January 30, February 8, 1898.
               
                     years out of school and still praying just a year earlier for a
                    God-given deliverance from her endless restiveness, pride, selfishness, indecision, and repeated
                    failures to do her duty. She may well have been heartened to reflect that Addams was only a year
                    younger when she moved to Hull-House and began her life's work.
            Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                     was really very different from Jane Addams. Addams was a spiritual follower of Carlyle,
                    not of Christ. Her outward humility was belied by the confidence with which, at the age of thirty,
                    she moved toward national and then international prominence. But for Addams, as for Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                    , the period of her twenties had been a fallow decade, punctuated by grand plans delayed
                    or abandoned ostensibly for reasons of ill health and family claims. Like Agnes, she had backed into
                    settlement work after years of inchoate and restless floundering in search of some unifying purpose
                    for her education and energies. Three years after founding Hull-House, in an address to fellow
                    settlement pioneers, she spoke from experience in delivering what remained the most eloquent
                    justification of the "subjective necessity for social settlements."85 The need for personal social work, she admitted candidly, lay as much with the workers
                    as with the worked upon. The idealism bred into young people by college education and by the
                    "democratic" and "humanitarian" spirit of the times was starved
                    into aimless frustration in the absence of any "recognized outlet." Addams
                    feelingly portrayed the plight of young women in the well-meaning thrall of
                    "inconsistent" parents: 
                        from babyhood the altruistic tendencies of these daughters are persistently cultivated. They
                            are taught to be self-forgetting and self-sacrificing, to consider the good of the whole
                            before the good of the ego. But when all this information and culture show results, when the
                            daughter comes back from college and begins to recognize her social claim to the
                            "submerged tenth," and to evince a disposition to fulfill it, the family
                            claim is strenuously asserted; she is told that she is unjustified, ill-advised in her
                                efforts.86
                  
                    
                
            With her wisdom Addams set forth what she called the "elements of a tragedy."
                    Certainly parental prohibition and the external restraints of convention bound many talented and
                    educated young women to circumscribed domestic roles. Unlike Agnes's father, Phoebe 
                        Hamilton
                     respected her daughter's "right to make 
                  
                     85 Biographies of Jane Addams include that of her nephew, James Weber
                            Linn, Jane Addams: A Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1935); Daniel Levine, Jane Addams and the Liberal Tradition (
                                Madison
                            , 1971). The least generous and in some ways the most acute is Allen F. Davis,
                                American Heroine: The Life and Legend of Jane Addams (
                                New York
                            , 1973). The text of Addam's address may be found in Twenty Years at Hull-House, 115–27.
                  
                     86 Addams, Twenty Years at Hull-House, 119.
               
                     your own life," but she fretted every time Agnes caught
                    cold in a strange city and frequently reminded her daughter of all the good work that lay at hand in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .87 What often gave a respected parent's claims their
                    devastating potency, however, was the internalized dinning of the strident voices of these young
                    adults' Anglo-American Protestant culture, which commanded simultaneously an active
                    response to the demands of duty and a vigilant and suspicious resistance to the stirrings of merely
                    personal ambition. For women particularly this was a cruel prescription for righteousness. For Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                     the "family claim" was peculiarly palpable, but it was also a point
                    of both personal and intellectual confusion. "I believe in the family so
                    strongly," she wrote at twenty-six. "I believe in it as a divinely appointed
                    institution, the most sacred thing on earth … there seems to me nothing greater except
                    our great Father's fatherhood of which this little family is our best lesson." As
                    she continued to resist the notion that she rejected at twenty, that a woman's sole aim
                    should be marriage and child-rearing, she also hesitated to endorse her cousin Edith's
                    contention that "if a woman (wife and mother) finds she can carry out her individual life
                    better alone, she ought to give up her family and devote herself to improving herself and her own
                    individuality; that that must be done at any cost." Significantly, she interpreted their
                    disagreement on this point as the difference between "individualism and
                    socialism"—herself representing the "socialist" side.88
            
            Christian Socialism and its variants spoke forcefully and pointedly to many of Agnes's
                    contemporaries. Addams ascribed the appeal of settlements to "a certain renaissance going
                    forward in Christianity" which expressed itself in "the impulse to share the lives
                    of the poor, the desire to make social service … express the spirit of
                    Christ…. "89 The heart of Christian Socialism, as expounded
                    by Kingsley, Maurice, Arnold Toynbee, and the Americans Ely, Hodges, Taylor, and their ministerial
                    and academic allies, was not the movement's concern with social reform but its
                    preoccupation with the soul of the reformer. Addams discerned in this ideology a cure for the ills
                    of both low and high society, but in effect it was less a cure than an irritant and a symptom. The
                    new Christian philanthropy demanded, "not money, but yourselves," as the English
                    reformer Walter Besant had written; but where and how was one to give oneself, and what made
                    one's self
                    
                  
                     87 See, for example, Phoebe 
                                Hamilton
                             to Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            , March 9, May 23, 30, 1902, February 6, 1903.
                  
                     88 Agnes paraphrases Edith's comment in her Diary, September
                            22, 1895.
                  
                     89 Addams, Twenty Years at Hull-House, 122.
               
                     worthy of being given?90 The trappings of
                    learning and culture surely were not enough; one felt compelled to strive for a purity of motive and
                    an annihilation of self-seeking that were rendered nearly impossible by the emphasis on
                    self-examination and self-testing implicit in this whole strain of Christian social thought. The
                    social settlement movement as it shook itself out from Christian Socialism was more
                    merciful—short on ascetic self-denial and long on the creative anarchy of heterogeneous
                    ideologies and the "mutual aid" derivable from class interaction in poor city
                    neigh-borhoods.
            Most devastating of all aspects of social Christianity and its complex roots in the Victorian social
                        milieu was the characteristic formlessness—the lack of
                    content—of its invocation to "duty." It is impossible to say what
                    precise concatenation of forces broke the dam of indecision in the face of proliferating and
                    conflicting duties for Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                    . She did not stay at Hull-House in 1898. She returned to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in the early spring. In September she packed up and accompanied Jessie to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where they both enrolled in art school. Through old Farmington friends, whom her
                    mother had enjoined her to cultivate, Agnes was drawn again into settlement work. At first she
                    attended occasional evening activities and helped to paint scenery for plays. Then, in late 1901,
                    she decided to leave her boardinghouse and move into the Lighthouse, a Presbyterian settlement
                    located in the Kensington section of 
                        Philadelphia
                    . There, with her mother's reluctant blessing, she stayed.91
            
            While Dr. Alice Hamilton went on to become one of the nation's first experts in industrial
                    toxicology and Edith 
                        Hamilton
                     served as headmistress of the Bryn Mawr School and became a noted and prolific
                    popularizer of ancient culture, Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                     made a career of settlement work. She served as a director and member of the executive
                    committee of the Lighthouse until the early 1930s, when, following their mother's death,
                    she and Jessie moved to their summer home in 
                        Connecticut
                    , close to their cousins Alice and Margaret. Unlike Alice, who used Hull-House as a base
                    for public health activism on a national scale, Agnes was one of the settlement movement's
                    staunch "insiders," whose dedication to a single local constituency insured the
                    settlements' institutional longevity.
            
               
                  90 Walter Besant, "University Settlements," in University and Social Settlements, ed. Will Reason (
                            London
                        , 1898), 2, 4.
               
                  91 Agnes 
                            Hamilton
                         to Phoebe 
                            Hamilton
                        , September 24, November 14, 20, 1898, January 27, 1899, January 4, 1902; Phoebe 
                            Hamilton
                         to Agnes 
                            Hamilton
                        , January 4, 13, 21, 1902.
            
            
            It is doubtful that Agnes found in settlement work a permanent release from the relentless
                    self-questioning that she had lived with since adolescence.92 She did gain,
                    first at Hull-House and then in the long Lighthouse years, an explicit sense of her own
                    worth—the joy of being "useful"—which had evaded her in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . At home she had felt pulled in a dozen directions. Her busy-ness left her unfulfilled,
                    and resulting periods of restlessness would trigger bouts of self-recrimination followed by
                    rededication to the impossible task, or tasks, of self-perfection. Settlement life entailed a
                    similar splintering of her time and energy, but the encompassing walls imparted that crucial
                    illusion of "one single purpose" which she had sought, vainly and with an
                    increasing sense of her own guilty hubris, at home in Indiana. With its explicit
                    Presbyterian affiliation, the Lighthouse represented a direct continuation of Agnes's
                    religious work in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . More broadly, the settlement embodied the ideas of Christian Socialism, which had
                    become for Agnes the litmus test of the worth of her worldly activities. A deep and enduring
                    affection for Esther Bradford, who with her husband Robert ran the Lighthouse for over thirty years,
                    also anchored Agnes to the settlement with a bond transcending institutional loyalty.
            Not a renunciation, but a re-creation, of home and family, the settlement achieved an almost seamless
                    merger of domestic detail and the personal enlargement and fulfillment of what Vida D. Scudder would
                    call the "freedom that is perfect service" to a clamoring, suffering world.93 There were certainly many who entered 
                  
                     92 Agnes 
                                Hamilton
                            's spiritual questing continued, according to information offered by
                            her niece, Phoebe 
                                Hamilton
                             Soule. Sometime in the early 1930s Agnes succumbed to the charisma of the
                            controversial Frank Buchman, founder of A First Century Christian Fellowhsip, later renamed
                            the 
                                Oxford
                             Group, and then Moral Re-Armament. Moral Re-Armament as propounded by Buchman
                            was an evangelistic movement that sought to bring both personal betterment and international
                            peace through a universal rededication to God and the four "Absolutes":
                            honesty, purity, unselfishness, and love. Agnes was apparently an ardent disciple and strove
                            to convert friends and family members. Her cousins resisted the call, not least because
                            Buchman's advocacy of "public confession" violated the
                            family's tacit code of privacy. (Interestingly, the practice of public profession
                            of faith was part of the Christian Endeavor idea as developed by Francis Clark, though it is
                            unclear whether Agnes's groups at Nebraska and her own church practiced this.)
                            Interview with Phoebe 
                                Hamilton
                             Soule, August, 1983. On Moral Re-Armament, see Buchman's collected
                            speeches in Frank Buchman, Remaking the World (
                                London
                            , 1961); for an insider's exposition of the philosophy of the 
                                Oxford
                             Group see The Layman with a Notebook, with a preface by L. W. Grensted, What Is the 
                                    Oxford
                                 Group? (
                                New York
                            , 1933); for a lengthy and hostile exposé see Tom Driberg, The Mystery of Moral Re-Armament: A Study of Frank Buchman and His
                            Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1965).
                  
                     93 Vida D. Scudder, "What It Means To Be a Member of the
                            College Settlements Association," reprinted in Scudder, On
                            Journey, 136.
               
                     settlement work with the relatively uncomplicated urge to right
                    social wrongs. Others, like Scudder, sought a sense of "reality" in the escape,
                    however partial, from the privileged, precious world which had nurtured them.94
                    For Agnes 
                        Hamilton
                    , the Christian ideals of duty and service constituted a confused and confusing mandate
                    of propitiatory selflessness achieved by scrupulous attention to self. For one who could not allow
                    herself the unleashed ambition of single-minded professional or creative endeavor, the settlement
                    substituted a real-world battleground for the rigged and treacherous battlefield of her own soul.
            
               
                  94 Scudder, On Journey, 50–51,
                        67–68, 91.
            
         
         
         
            Alvin P. Hovey and Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    's "Broken Promises":
            The Politics of Promotion
            Earl J. Hess∗
            
            The promotion of Alvin P. Hovey to brevet major general of volunteers in July, 1864, was an incident
                    of some note during the Civil War's 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign. Angered by what he considered a political favor given to an unworthy officer,
                    General William T. Sherman protested vigorously. President Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , who had granted the promotion, responded, and historians have used this exchange to
                    illustrate the personalities of both men. Thus overshadowed, Hovey's case receded into
                        obscurity.1
            
            It is unfortunate that Hovey's promotion, as such, has not received more attention, for his
                    story is informative concerning the way in which military appointments in the Civil War were
                    intertwined with political considerations. Hovey's was not a simplistic case of military
                    patronage, as Sherman believed, but an illustration of the mutable boundaries between politics and
                    the military in a citizen army and the effects of that combination on the life of a man who
                    successfully worked in both spheres. Hovey was a political general as were John A. Logan, Frank P.
                    Blair, and other northwesterners. Unlike them, he failed to make maximum use of his talents as
                    politician and as general to achieve advancement of the kind he desired.
            Hovey's antebellum career established him as a significant personality in Indiana politics.
                    Born in 1821 near 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , Indiana, Hovey practiced law before embarking on a brief tour of duty in the Mexican
                    War. He was a Democratic delegate to the 
                  
                     ∗ Earl J. Hess is a graduate student in American Studies,
                            with a concentration in history, Purdue University, West 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Lloyd Lewis, Sherman: Fighting Prophet (1932;
                            reprint, 
                                New York
                            , 1958), 390; B. H. Liddell Hart, Sherman: Soldier, Realist,
                                American (1929; reprint, 
                                New York
                            , 1958), 287; Carl Sandburg, Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                , Volume III, The War Years (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1926–1939), 154–55.
               
                    
                    
                  ALVIN PETERSON HOVEY
                  
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                Indiana Constitutional Convention of 1850 and became judge of the state's Third
                    Judicial District the next year. In 1854 he was appointed to Indiana's Supreme Court and
                    served as president of the Democratic state convention in 1855. During the following two years he
                    served as 
                        United States
                     district attorney for Indiana. For an unexplained reason Hovey switched to the
                    Republican party and ran for Congress in 1858. Defeated, he rejoined the Democrats and practiced law
                    at 
                        Mount Vernon
                    . Having filled a variety of state offices, he became acquainted with many men who later
                    played roles in his attempt to gain military advancement.2
            
            A dedicated War Democrat, Hovey offered his services to the Union during the Civil War. In May, 1861,
                    he and Robert Dale Owen obtained arms for 
                        Posey County
                     volunteers in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Because of his successful recruiting efforts Hovey became colonel 
                  
                     2 Charles M. Walker, Hovey and Chase (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1888), 7–30; William W. Sweet, "Alvin Peterson
                            Hovey," Dictionary of American Biography, IX (
                                New York
                            , 1943), 270–71.
               
                     of the 24th Indiana Infantry in July. The regiment joined
                    Ulysses S. Grant's army after the fall of Fort Donelson and almost missed the battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     as well. As part of Lew Wallace's division, the 24th Indiana marched and
                    countermarched all day on April 6 before finding the battlefield. Hovey was mentioned favorably by
                    Wallace for his battle performance the following day. He won promotion to brigadier general of
                    volunteers on April 28, 1862.3
            
            With his new rank Hovey began to move in higher circles and to fill more important positions. He
                    commanded occupation forces in 
                        Memphis
                     for a few days in June until Sherman ordered him south to 
                  Helena, Arkansas
               . Hovey spent the following eight months at that advanced post, at one
                    point commanding the District of Eastern 
                        Arkansas
                    . He energetically led raids into the Arkansas hinterland in August and November, 1862,
                    although they yielded no significant results. Arkansas was a sideshow to the great objective of
                    opening the Mississippi River, and Hovey's expedition toward 
                  Grenada, Mississippi
               , late
                    that year supported Grant's first effort to capture 
                        Vicksburg
                    . Hovey diverted Confederate attention from Grant, although the latter's
                    campaign failed, and won praise from his superiors.4
            
            Before the winter of 1863 Hovey's war views were consonant with those of other conservatives
                    who supported the Union. He advocated vigorous action against armed opponents but lenient treatment
                    of noncombatants. His dispatches from 
                        Helena
                     conveyed eagerness to take the offensive, leading Sherman to prophesy success for the 
                        Grenada
                     Expedition: "I know that General Hovey's heart is in
                    it…." Earlier, the Indianan tried to rid 
                        Memphis
                     of Confederate sympathizers by allowing men of military age to go south without
                    paroles. Sherman believed the order resulted in more recruits for the Confederate army but allowed
                    it to stand until an expiration date prearranged by Hovey. Expressing his desire to wage a decent
                    fight, Hovey wrote in October: 
                  
                     3 Walker, Hovey and Chase, 33–36; Francis
                            B. Heitman, Historical Register and Dictionary of the 
                                    United States
                                 Army … (2 vols., 1903; reprint, 
                                Urbana
                            , 1965), I, 545; Alvin P. Hovey to D. C. Coleman, April 8, 1862, U.S., War
                            Department, War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the
                                Union and Confederate Armies (128 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1880–1901), Ser. I, Vol. X, Part 1, pp. 191–92; Lewis
                            Wallace to John A. Rawlins, April 12, 1862, ibid., p. 173. The latter work
                            is hereafter cited as Official Records, and, unless otherwise noted, all
                            citations are to Series I.
                  
                     4 Ulysses S. Grant to Henry W. Halleck, June 24, 1862, Official Records, Vol. XVII, Part 2, p. 30; William T. Sherman to Rawlins, July
                            25, 1862, ibid., p. 121; Hovey to H. Z. Curtis, August 17, 1862, ibid., Vol. XIII, p. 207; Hovey to H. Z. Curtis, November 22, 1862, ibid., pp. 358–59; General Orders No. 11, Department of the 
                                Missouri
                            , November 2, 1862, ibid., p. 777; Hovey to Frederick Steele,
                            December 5, 1862, ibid., Vol. XVII, Part 1, p. 531; Samuel R. Curtis to
                            Halleck, December 16, 1862, ibid., p. 529.
               
                     "My heartfelt desire is to terminate this unhappy
                    struggle with as little injury to non-combatants and as few violations of the rules of civilized
                    warfare as possible."5
            
            Those views modified during the winter as Hovey witnessed the impact of a dual policy toward
                    southerners. During the 
                        Grenada
                     Expedition he found the Mississippi countryside filled with goods purchased from
                    northern traders who took advantage of a lenient Federal trade policy with southern civilians.
                    Military information traveled south with the traders, convincing Hovey that a liberal policy toward
                    noncombatants was inconsistent with a vigorous policy toward soldiers. "War and commerce
                    with the same people! What a Utopian dream!" he complained in December, 1862. The surest
                    sign of his conversion to a vigorous prosecution against civilians as well as fighters occurred when
                    Adjutant General Lorenzo Thomas spoke to the troops at 
                        Helena
                     about the government's plan to arm freed blacks. Hovey endorsed the measure
                    and added: "I want all the cotton burned north and south, all trade stopped, all commerce
                    closed. I want all the women and children, especially of rebels, reduced to starvation and want.
                    This will bring their friends home who are fighting us."6
            
            The radicalization of Hovey's war views occurred at the same time that promotion became
                    obviously important to him. On January 30, 1863, the field officers of his unit petitioned 
                        Lincoln
                     to give Hovey a commission as major general. They cited his service as a division
                    leader and "his untiring energy and unselfish patriotism …." The
                    officers had no trouble convincing their commander. He sent a copy of the petition to his wife and
                    wrote to her: "I have the proud consolation of having deserved promotion whether I get it
                    or not."7 Hovey might have contemplated promotion 
                  
                     5 Sherman quotation in Sherman to Steele, November 25, 1862, ibid., Vol. XVII, Part 2, p. 875; Sherman to Dr. E. S. Plummer and others,
                            July 23, 1862, ibid., p. 114; Sherman to Rawlins, July 25, 1862, ibid., p. 122; Hovey to Theophilus H. Holmes, October 29, 1862, ibid., Ser. II, Vol. IV, p. 665. Hovey's biographer tried to
                            explain the 
                                Memphis
                             order by claiming that his subject "considered a thousand armed
                            enemies without the federal lines less dangerous than a thousand enemies within, even though
                            the latter should be armed only with a bitter and venomous tongue." He erroneously
                            believed that Sherman agreed with Hovey's opinion. Walker, Hovey and
                                Chase, 42.
                  
                     6 Hovey to Steele, December 5, 1862, Official
                            Records, Vol. XVII, Part 1, p. 532; Lorenzo Thomas to Edwin M. Stanton, April 6, 1863,
                                ibid., Ser. III, Vol. III, p. 117. For Hovey's 
                                Helena
                             speech see enclosure of Joseph G. Peevy to Holmes, April 17, 1863, ibid., Ser. I, Vol. XXII, Part 2, p. 826.
                  
                     7 Hovey to Mary Hovey, February 8, 1863, Alvin P. Hovey Papers (Lilly
                            Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ); copy of petition to 
                                Lincoln
                            , January 30, 1863, in ibid. Hovey's division
                            contained many Indiana units as well as regiments from 
                        Ohio, Iowa, Wisconsin
                     , and 
                                Missouri
                            .
               
                     earlier, but his officers made it a real possibility in his
                    mind.
            Hovey thereafter began to maneuver with the skill of an experienced politician. He considered his
                    vigorous war views as a tool of promotion. On February 2 he authored a circular that responded to
                    antiwar sentiment in the Northwest. Endorsed by many of his officers who shared his politics, the
                    circular urged Indianans to ignore southern efforts to alienate northern Democrats from the war
                    effort. Hovey argued that North and South could not live peaceably if separated and stressed the
                    shame of northern subservience to a despotic southern aristocracy. He sent a copy of this jeremiad
                    to Samuel R. Curtis, his department commander, who heartily endorsed his views and forwarded them to 
                        Lincoln
                    .8 As a result, two key superiors became acquainted with
                    Hovey's vocal support for the Union.
            In addition to creating a good image in the right circles, Hovey tried to regain field command and
                    prove himself in battle. Opportunities were few at 
                        Helena
                    ; in fact, he was demoted to brigade command in February when a new superior officer
                    arrived. Hovey traveled downriver to see Grant personally about a command in the operations against 
                        Vicksburg
                    . Returning with a promise of aid, Hovey assured his wife: "When I am once more
                    in battle I will [earn] my promotion, whether I receive it or not." Hovey constantly
                    worried that people he considered less qualified might be advanced before him. He decided to resign
                    if that occurred and began to brood at 
                        Helena
                     while waiting for word from Grant. The promotions of "mere partizans"
                    like Blair and Cadwallader C. Washburn, "who never fought a battle," seemed to
                    prove his worst fears, but he retained hope. Hovey sent a blank petition asking for his promotion to
                    a 
                        Mount Vernon
                     friend, requesting him to circulate it for signatures and forward the document to 
                        Washington
                    .9
            
            Grant gave Hovey command of the 12th Division, 13th Corps, of his army, and the Indianan filled the
                    position well. At the battle 
                  
                     8 Walker, Hovey and Chase, 52–55; Samuel
                            R. Curtis to Hovey, February 14, 1863, Hovey Papers. On February 26 Hovey sent to Curtis
                            what the latter described as a "patriotic letter." Curtis passed it on to 
                                Lincoln
                            , hoping the president would "read the views of a Democratic General
                            who has done good Service in my command." Curtis to Hovey, March 10, 1863, ibid.
                  
                  
                     9 Willis A. Gorman to Samuel R. Curtis, February 13, 1863, Official Records, Vol. XXII, Part 2, pp. 110–11; Hovey to Mary
                            Hovey, February 21, March 12, 1863, Hovey Papers. In addition to his politically influential
                            family, the justification for Blair's promotion lay in his important role in
                            maintaining Missouri for the Union in 1861. Washburn's brother, Elihu, was a
                            congressman of some influence from 
                                Illinois
                            .
               
                     of Champion's Hill, May 16, 1863, he turned in the best
                    performance of his career. Grant and corps commander John A. McClernand were impressed with his
                    energy and determination. Hovey carefully guarded his reputation, investigating unidentified reports
                    that claimed other units replaced his during the battle rather than supported it. Later that summer
                    he participated in the siege of 
                        Vicksburg
                     and the subsequent campaign against 
                  Jackson, Mississippi
               .10
            
            The resulting visibility paid dividends, and Hovey supplemented it with continued lobbying. On June 9
                    his officers again petitioned 
                        Lincoln
                     for their commander's promotion. Hovey sent a copy of the document to his
                    acquaintance, Robert Dale Owen, who served as secretary of the American Freedman's Inquiry
                    Commission. Owen, an adopted Indianan who had actively supported emancipation and who had fought
                    sectional division within the North, passed it on to 
                        Lincoln
                     with his endorsement. John Palmer Usher, a 
                        Terre Haute
                     lawyer and Indiana state legislator who became secretary of the Interior in 1863, spoke
                    to 
                        Lincoln
                     on Hovey's behalf. The president expected Grant to recommend Hovey for
                    promotion, and he intended to nominate him. 
                        Lincoln
                     admitted that the Indianan had been on his list the previous winter, but he could do
                    nothing for him because of the limited number of commissions available. Because of Hovey's
                    impressive work around 
                        Vicksburg
                    , his new corps commander, Edward O.C. Ord, forwarded his name to Grant. The
                    recommendation went to Army Headquarters and General-in-Chief Henry W. Halleck forwarded it to
                    Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton in August, 1863.11
            
            Soon after 
                        Vicksburg
                    , Hovey traveled north to visit his wife, who had been ill for some time. In September,
                    so that he could be near Mary, Grant ordered Hovey to remain at home to "procure"
                    volunteers in 
                  Ohio, Illinois
               , and Indiana. While engaged in the double duty of husband and
                    officer, Hovey continued to worry about his stalled promotion. Nothing seemed to happen. James
                    Hughes, an Indiana lawyer who served as a judge of the United 
                  
                     10 Hovey to Walter B. Scates, May 25, June 8, July 5, 24, 1863, Official Records, Vol. XXIV, Part 2, pp. 40–46,
                            46–47, 240–41, 597–99; John A. McClernand to Rawlins, June
                            17, 1863, ibid., Part 1, p. 150.
                  
                     11 Many of the officers who signed the new petition had been among the
                            signers of the January petition as well. Copy of petition to 
                                Lincoln
                            , June 9, 1863, Hovey Papers; Robert Dale Owen to Hovey, July 20, 1863, ibid.; John P. Usher to Hovey, July 30, 1863, ibid.;
                            Broadus 
                                Mitchell
                            , "Robert Dale Owen," Dictionary of American
                                Biography, XIV, 118–20; Thomas LeGrand Harris, "John Palmer
                            Usher, ibid., XIX, 134–35; Edward O. C. Ord to Rawlins, July
                            27, 1863, in John Y. Simon, ed., Papers of Ulysses S. Grant (10 vols. to
                            date, Carbondale, 1967-), IX, 72n; Grant to Thomas, July 27, 1863, ibid.,
                            124; Halleck to Stanton, August 10, 1863, ibid., 125n.
               
                     States Court of Claims in 
                        Washington
                    , asked 
                        Lincoln
                     the reason. The president seemed surprised that Hovey was still a brigadier general and
                    asked Hughes to present his case in writing so that he could examine and act on it. The routing of
                    Hovey's recommendation through Stanton had kept 
                        Lincoln
                     in the dark, but Hughes was confident that his friend would be confirmed during the
                    Senate's next session.12
            
            Hovey was never so certain of his promotion as were his friends. In addition to career problems he
                    suffered a severe personal blow when Mary died in late November. The day after her burial he wrote
                    to Grant asking for orders. If a field command was not available, he wanted to remain in Indiana to
                    organize and train new recruits for the spring campaigns. Almost inevitably the subject of promotion
                    came up. Hovey wanted to correct the by-passing of 
                        Lincoln
                     in the process of forwarding his recommendation so the president could know that his
                    name had been officially advanced long before. Grant failed to oblige Hovey in that matter but
                    ordered him to work with recruits at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .13
            
            The assignment placed Hovey in the heart of political Indiana. In February, 1864, the
                    state's Republicans convened to nominate their ticket, presidential electors, and delegates
                    to the national convention. In addition to calling themselves the Union party, Republicans tried to
                    broaden their base of support by nominating War Democrats to fill state offices. Hovey
                    "persistently refused" to be included but was gratified when the party urged his
                    promotion. It made the array of endorsements complete; his subordinate officers, his superiors, and
                    now his political compeers supported him.14
            
            As the winter progressed, Hovey learned that even those positive endorsements made no headway against
                    the system of army promotion. As Hughes informed him, there were limited shares of the pie and too
                    many hungry gourmands. Hughes discovered that Indiana Senator Henry Smith Lane, a Republican who
                    served on the Committee on Military Affairs, had tried to 
                  
                     12 Hovey to Grant, August 20, 1863, Grant Papers,
                            IX, 126n; Special Orders No. 256, Department of the 
                                Tennessee
                            , September 18, 1863, ibid.; James Hughes to Hovey, November
                            4, 1863, Hovey Papers; William O. Lynch, "James Hughes," Dictionary of American Biography, IX, 351–52.
                  
                     13 Hovey to Grant, November 19, 1863, Grant Papers,
                            IX, 126n–27n; Special Orders No. 24, Military Division of the 
                                Mississippi
                            , December 20, 1863, Official Records, Vol. XXXI, Part 3, p.
                            455.
                  
                     14 Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil
                                War (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXI, 1949; reprint, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1978), 220–23; Hovey to his daughter Essie, February 26, 1864,
                            Hovey Papers.
               
                     secure promotion for Hovey and another Indianan, Nathan Kimball.
                    The latter held a less attractive military record but exerted more political pull. He had traveled
                    to 
                        Washington
                     and had persuaded Indiana congressmen to recommend his advancement. That endorsement
                    somewhat overshadowed Hovey's, and Hughes counseled his friend not to confront Kimball
                    publicly about the issue. He suggested private efforts and persuaded Frank P. Blair, Jr., whose
                    "influence with the President is great," to see 
                        Lincoln
                    .15
            
            Blair did not want to meddle in Indiana affairs but obliged Hughes because of a sense of duty to a
                    vigorous Unionist. He believed Hovey had priority in the promotion sweepstakes because of his work
                    in the 
                        Vicksburg
                     campaign, and he discovered that 
                        Lincoln
                     was surfeited with information on the worthy general. 
                        Lincoln
                     assured Blair that he would soon nominate Hovey, but a few weeks before he had thrown
                    up his hands while talking with Schuyler Colfax about the subject. Colfax, the Republican speaker of
                    the House, and other Indiana representatives had requested that 
                        Lincoln
                     create another major generalcy for someone from their state. The president gave them
                    little hope, remarking that Iowa had no major general and he could not give her one, much less add
                    another to Indiana's credit. He either disremem-bered or lied to help himself evade
                    pressure from his group of visitors, for Iowa had at least one major general, Samuel R. Curtis.
                    Colfax, who had helped secure Hovey's promotion to brigadier general in 1862, offered the
                    Indianan more hope in early February when he relayed Lane's optimistic view of the
                    promotion prospects.16
            
            The pattern for the winter was set; chained to his job in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Hovey could do little more than correspond with his lobbyists and rely on their
                    generally optimistic reports. Cyrus M. Allen, Republican speaker of the Indiana House and a
                    "fast friend" of 
                        Lincoln
                    , sent word that the president considered Hovey "one of the first if not the
                    very first to be appointed …." Allen complained to the president that one of
                    Hovey's juniors, Cadwallader C. Washburn, had been promoted before him and that 
                        Lincoln
                     had earlier promised that Peter J. Osterhaus would be the next man to receive a major
                    general's commission. 
                        Lincoln
                     "frowned [,] shrugged his shoulders and intimated that political
                    considerations or rather influences" had advanced Washburn. Setting the 
                  
                     15 Hughes to Hovey, January 25, 1864, Hovey Papers; Paul L. Haworth,
                            "Henry Smith Lane," Dictionary of American Biography, X,
                            574–75.
                  
                     16 Frank P. Blair, Jr., to Hovey, January 26, 1864, Hovey Papers;
                            Schuyler Colfax to Hovey, January 24, February 1, 1864, ibid.; William
                            McDonald, "Schuyler Colfax," Dictionary of American
                                Biography, IV, 297–98.
               
                     record straight, the president insisted that he had said
                    "the first Dutchman appointed shall be Osterhaus." 
                        Lincoln
                     assured Allen that he recognized Hovey's sterling qualities. He had
                    "desired to promote him without the ability to do so" and promised to nominate him
                    as soon as possible. The president repeated this promise to Colfax and John D. Defrees, an Indianan
                    he had appointed government printer.17
            
            Those assurances made little difference; no promotion arrived, and spring brought a return to the
                    field. Hovey had worked energetically to raise new troops. In January, 1864, he had issued a call
                    promising recruits the opportunity to serve in a brigade composed entirely of Indiana regiments.
                    Grant had hoped Hovey could organize and ready the men for duty by spring. Ten regiments were
                    created, five of infantry and five of cavalry. The former were put under Hovey's orders and
                    sent to 
                        Georgia
                     via eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    , where they became a division of the 23rd Corps. Grant sent the cavalry units to 
                        Kentucky
                    .18
            
            Hovey's brief participation in the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign offered a strange contrast to his earlier field work. At the battle of Resaca,
                    May 15, 1864, his division received orders to move seven hundred yards across an open field exposed
                    to Confederate fire in order to support Alpheus S. Williams's division of the 20th Corps.
                    Hovey reported that his troops, although new, ran across the field and drove their enemy
                    "like smoke before the wind." Williams described it differently and probably more
                    accurately. He urged Hovey to support his command, but the Indianan admitted that his men
                    "could not be got through the line of artillery fire." Indeed, they did not move
                    up until the Rebels had been driven back. Hovey had poor soldiers to command, "many of whom
                    were old men and boys," according to the Army of the 
                        Ohio
                    's medical director, and they suffered a high rate of physical disability.
                    Corps leader John M. Schofield believed the problem lay in Hovey's mind. "He seems
                    incapable of comprehending an order or of having any definite idea of what is transpiring around
                    him." As a result, Schofield considered him untrustworthy in the field.19
            
            
               
                  17 Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War, 84,
                        221; Cyrus M. Allen to Hovey, February 4, 1864, Hovey Papers; John D. Defrees to Hovey, February
                        29, 1864, ibid.; Colfax to Hovey, April 9, 1864, ibid.;
                        William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1883), 485–88.
               
                  18 Walker, Hovey and Chase, 113; Grant to Hovey,
                        February 9, 1864, Grant Papers, X, 97; Grant to Oliver P. Morton, March 17,
                        1864, ibid., 202n–203n; Special Orders No. 101, Department of the 
                            Ohio
                        , April 10, 1864, Official Records, Vol. XXXII, Part 3, p. 320.
               
                  19 Hovey to J. A. Campbell, June 9, 1864, Official
                        Records, Vol. XXXVIII, Part 2, p. 541; Alpheus S. Williams to daughter, June 10, 1864, in
                        Milo M. Quaife, ed., From the Cannon's Mouth: The Civil War Letters of
                            General Alpheus S. Williams (
                            Detroit
                        , 1959), 317; Report of Surgeon Henry S. Hewitt, January, 1865, Official Records, Vol. XXXVIII, Part 2, p. 522; John M. Schofield to Sherman, May 10,
                        1864, ibid., Part 4, p. 122.
            
            
            A number of factors combined to decrease Hovey's efficiency by the spring of 1864. The loss
                    of his wife might have depressed him. Certainly, the inferior condition of his raw troops was
                    important in explaining his poor performance. A major factor, however, appears to have been
                    bitterness over the long-delayed advancement. Not only had Hovey's promotion been
                    consistently postponed despite repeated assurances to the contrary but his plans to lead an Indiana
                    legion had also fallen apart. He insisted that the cavalry units he had raised be added to his
                    division, a desire that was inconsistent with his previous attitude and irrational in professional
                    terms. During the 
                        Vicksburg
                     campaign Hovey had worked hard to learn the ways of a professional soldier whose
                    primary aim was to serve his subordinates. According to Charles A. Dana, a War Department observer
                    with Grant's army, Hovey tried "to learn the military profession just as if he
                    expected to spend his life in it." Dana also noted that Hovey was too concerned about
                    personal renown to be given complete confidence as a military leader, but in 1863 that flaw did not
                    mar his reputation or his field performance.20 One year later, after the death
                    of his wife and to a large degree because of the repeated frustration of his ambition, Hovey was a
                    different kind of soldier.
            The months of deferred hope for his promotion had set the foundation for Hovey's emotional
                    estrangement from the army. The refusal to increase his division's size was the final
                    catalyst for his physical estrangement. The Indianan offered his resignation on June 6, 1864, citing
                    the failure to promote him and the diversion of his cavalry regiments to other commands. "I
                    cannot be thus humbled and consent to serve longer," he concluded. As Hovey informed his
                    daughter, 
                        Lincoln
                    's "broken promises" had been the cause of his discontent,
                    and he insisted on leaving the army "unless he [the president] gives me a Major Generalship
                    and a larger command …."21
            
            Hovey's resignation encountered opposition from Schofield and Sherman. The former modified
                    his opinion of the month before, apparently deciding that Hovey should remain unless a more
                    competent man could be found to replace him; the latter was reluctant to approve a resignation for
                    the reasons Hovey advanced. The cavalry regiments were not mounted because of a shortage of horses
                    and funds; in addition, they guarded supply 
                  
                     20 Charles A. Dana to Stanton, July 12, 1863, in Charles A. Dana, Recollections of the Civil War, with the Leaders at 
                                    Washington
                                 and in the Field in the Sixties (
                                New York
                            , 1902), 64.
                  
                     21 Hovey to Thomas, June 6, 1864, Hovey Papers; Hovey to Essie, June
                            8, 1864, ibid.
                  
               
                     lines to the army in 
                        Georgia
                    , and Sherman could not replace them even had he wanted to add them to Hovey's
                    command. A division consisting half of infantry and half of cavalry was out of the question; it
                    would "no more make a unit in a good whole than oil and water will commingle."
                    Sherman had nothing to do with promises for promotion. He wanted Hovey to reconsider his decision or
                    propose different reasons for resigning. The Indianan discussed it at length with Sherman on June 9
                    but remained adamant. Unwilling to create a hybrid unit or subtract regiments from another division
                    for him, and unable to promote him, Sherman decided to approve Hovey's resignation. Before
                    accepting a leave of absence sending him north to await the decision of authorities in 
                        Washington
                    , Hovey referred to the resignation in a farewell message to his command. "It
                    is enough for me to say that I think a due regard to my personal honor and the honor of my State
                    demand it."22
            
            Hovey faced similar opposition in 
                        Washington
                    . Ironically, he called on the same friends who had lobbied for his promotion to push
                    for his resignation. Colfax informed him gently that his repeated requests for aid began to wear
                    thin. Taking time out of his busy schedule, the speaker visited 
                        Lincoln
                     on June 18 and showed him Hovey's letters explaining his reasons for leaving
                    the army, ccording to Colfax the president took it badly, remarking "that they were the
                    only things he had seen in you [Hovey] that he did not like …." 
                        Lincoln
                     decided not to accept the resignation for he had sincerely intended to promote Hovey,
                    and he tried to enlighten Colfax on the reasons for advancing other officers instead. Richard J.
                    Oglesby of Illinois had resigned and desired that Grenville M. Dodge of Iowa fill his place. 
                        Lincoln
                     felt he could not disoblige the former. Although James B. Steedman of Ohio had less
                    priority than Hovey, 
                        Lincoln
                     had nevertheless signed his commission when Stanton had forwarded it. Unwilling to
                    block Steedman's promotion after it had gone so far as to be confirmed by the Senate, the
                    president "did not like to refuse to sign it, as he had always intended to promote
                    him." It was the same story that Hovey's lobbyists had heard time and time again,
                    and Colfax realized the futility of his mission. After referring 
                        Lincoln
                     to a petition by Indiana's presidential electors endorsing Hovey's
                    promotion, Colfax "concluded the unpleasant interview." He reminded 
                  
                     22 Schofield to Sherman, June 8, 1864, Official
                            Records, Vol. XXXVIII, Part 4, p. 438–39; Sherman to Schofield, June 8, 9,
                            1864, ibid., pp. 439, 443–44; Sherman to Stanton, June 8, 1864,
                                ibid., p. 433; Special Field Orders No. 22, Army of the 
                                Ohio
                            , June 9, 1864, ibid., p. 448; Hovey to 1st Division, 23rd
                            Corps, June 9, 1864, Hovey Papers.
               
                     Hovey of the president's busy schedule and plethora of
                    more important problems, hoping the Indianan would realize "how unattractive is the duty of
                    presenting such" matters.23
            
            
               
                        Lincoln
                    's refusal did not move Hovey. He wrote directly to the president asking for
                    "the poor privilege of retiring to private life" if 
                        Lincoln
                     would not rectify the conditions that had inspired his resignation. "I am now
                    unfit to command," he wrote, "I could not go back to my little Brigade called a
                    Division without deep humiliation."24
            
            The president did not give up either. As Interior Secretary Usher informed Hovey, 
                        Lincoln
                     considered putting him in charge of the 14th Corps in 
                        Georgia
                    . Considering Sherman's knowledge of Hovey, it was unrealistic to believe that
                    he would approve of the Indianan's filling such a responsible position. 
                        Lincoln
                     dropped the idea in favor of a purely honorary promotion. He nominated Hovey for a
                    brevet commission as major general, which advanced him in no practical way but might soothe his ego.
                    The commission was approved by the Senate and sent to Indiana by mid-July. Hovey accepted it on the
                        eighteenth.25
            
            Although Hovey took the commission, it did not satisfy him. Stanton requested that he withdraw his
                    resignation. The partial promotion had been a kind gesture by the president, Hovey admitted, but in
                    his view it changed nothing. He insisted on leaving the army. The authorities were equally insistent
                    that he stay, and the impasse continued.26
            
            The advancement, minor as it was, provoked a strong response from Sherman. On July 24 James A.
                    Hardie, inspector general of the army, informed him that Osterhaus had been promoted to the full
                    rank of major general. Sherman viewed his and 
                  
                     23 Colfax to Hovey, June 19, 1864, Hovey Papers; copy of petition of 
                                United States
                             Central Committee, June 15, 1864, ibid. No firm answer exists
                            as to why 
                                Lincoln
                             was unwilling to disoblige Oglesby but apparently did not mind disobliging
                            Hovey. Oglesby was, however, a rising political figure; indeed, he ran successfully for the
                            Illinois governorship in 1864 on a Republican pro-war ticket. The process of submitting
                            nominees for promotion to the Senate was very loose during the Civil War. Apparently someone
                            submitted Steedman's name without 
                                Lincoln
                            's knowledge, and after Senate confirmation, the president hesitated to
                            block the promotion. Hovey's name was never presented to the Senate.
                  
                     24 Hovey to 
                                Lincoln
                            , June 23, 1864, ibid.
                  
                  
                     25 Usher to Hovey, July 5, 1864, ibid.; S. F.
                            Chalfin to Hovey, July 15, 1864, ibid.
                  
                  
                     26 Stanton to Hovey, July 19, 1864, ibid.; Hovey to
                            Stanton, July 21, 1864, ibid. Hovey tried to obscure his acceptance of the
                            brevet appointment. On a copy of his letter to Stanton he stated that he had declined the
                            promotion. The Chalfin document, which was mailed with his commission, clearly indicates
                            that Hovey accepted it on July 18. In addition, his letter to Stanton does not specifically
                            accept or reject the appointment.
               
                     Hovey's appointments as insults by the 
                        Washington
                     authorities. The officers were absent in order to seek "personal
                    advancement," he informed Hardie, and concluded with this provocative remark: "If
                    the rear be the post of honor, then we had better all change front on 
                        Washington
                    ."27
            
            Sherman was brief and pointed. His letter went beyond Hardie's hands to 
                        Lincoln
                    , who replied in measured, wholly judicious terms. He agreed that Sherman had a good
                    point but reminded him that he, Grant, and others had wanted the two men promoted long before. 
                        Lincoln
                     therefore felt committed to their advancement. Although he disliked Hovey's
                    decision to leave the army, he realized that the Indianan had some reason for discontent. 
                        Lincoln
                     had been unaware of Osterhaus's absence, however, and still did not know the
                    reason for it. The 
                        German
                    's promotion had been made "somewhat on his nationality";
                    again, political reasons edged Hovey out of his anticipated reward. 
                        Lincoln
                     assured his correspondent that no more appointments would be made without his
                        advice.28
            
            
               
                        Lincoln
                    's dispatch sobered the impulsive Sherman, and he explained his rashness in
                    terms as judicious as 
                        Lincoln
                    's. Correcting a misimpression in his earlier dispatch, Sherman noted that
                    Osterhaus had left the army because of "temporary sickness." Nevertheless, he
                    reemphasized his displeasure and expanded on the reasons for it. If the two had been promoted a year
                    before, when they had been nominated, no harm would have occurred. From the beginning of the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign Sherman had decided not to recommend anyone for promotion until "some
                    stage in the game" had been reached to allow him "to balance accounts
                    …." The promotions worked injury on his officers' morale.
                    "They come to me and point them out as evidence that I am wrong in encouraging them to a
                    silent, patient discharge of duty. I assure you that every general of my army has spoken of it and
                    referred to it as evidence that promotion results from importunity and not from actual
                    service." He complimented 
                        Lincoln
                    's "marked skill in the matter of military appointments,"
                    believing the president had apportioned them as well as possible.29
            
            Contemporaries and historians tended to support Sherman's views in this minor confrontation.
                    Grant expressed regret over Osterhaus's promotion while that officer was not on active
                    duty. Jacob Dolson Cox, a division leader in the 23rd Corps, regarded 
                  
                     27 Sherman to James A. Hardie, July 25, 1864, Official
                                Records, Vol. XXXVIII, Part 5, p. 247.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Lincoln
                             to Sherman, July 26, 1864, ibid., pp. 259–60.
                  
                     29 Sherman to 
                                Lincoln
                            , July 27, 1864, ibid., p. 271.
               
                     Sherman's protest as "righteous … a
                    memorable effort in favor of good military administration." 
                        Lincoln
                     acted irresponsibly, in Cox's view, when he advanced officers without the
                    immediate advice of their superiors. The administration did "not seem even to have asked
                    the question what was going on in 
                        Georgia
                     and what would be the effect of such action upon the army there!" Biographer
                    Lloyd Lewis accepted Cox's analysis, and military historian B. H. Liddell Hart also sided
                    with the generals.30
            
            Sherman was able to assume his stance because he had limited responsibilities. As a field commander
                    he was concerned with efficiently accomplishing military objectives. The promotions injured morale
                    to some degree, as a remark by Williams proved: "The whole system of promotion is by the
                    practice of a low grovelling lick-spittle subserving and pandering …." The
                    incident prompted Williams to announce privately his decision to resign as soon as he could do so
                    honorably, a desire he later relinquished. Sherman distributed copies of 
                        Lincoln
                    's July 26 dispatch to his army and division leaders in order to neutralize
                    their discontent. His anger over the promotions had been caused partially by his neglect to ask 
                        Lincoln
                     to defer appointments until he recommended them. Sherman had written this request on
                    July 24, but it did not reach 
                        Washington
                     in time to postpone either promotion. Nevertheless, Sherman put his house in order
                    quickly and made positive gains because of the controversy. On July 28 Hardie asked him to nominate
                    eight colonels for commissions as brigadier generals. As Cox noted, Sherman was primarily concerned
                    with exerting some control over promotions in his command. His judgments in this regard were based
                    almost entirely on military grounds.31
            
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     could not be so narrow in making decisions. His responsibilities lay in two spheres
                    rather than one, political and military, and he had to balance the considerations of both to arrive
                    at a compromise. 
                        Lincoln
                     was a political commander appointing large numbers of citizen soldiers to wage a
                    democratic war. Hovey enjoyed strong support among members of both parties in Indiana 
                  
                     30 Grant to Stanton, July 26, 1864, ibid., p. 260;
                            Jacob Dolson Cox, Military Reminiscences of the Civil War (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1900), II, 251–52; Lewis, Sherman: Fighting
                            Prophet, 390; Hart, Sherman: Soldier, Realist, American, 287. Sherman
                            was consistent in his postwar reminiscences, maintaining the same stance that he had assumed
                            in 1864. William T. Sherman, Memoirs (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1875), II, 94–95.
                  
                     31 Williams to daughters, July 15, 1864, in Quaife, From
                                the Cannon's Mouth, 332; Sherman to 
                                Lincoln
                            , July 27, 1864, Official Records, Vol. XXXVIII, Part 5, p.
                            271; Sherman to Halleck, July 24, 1864, ibid., p. 241; Sherman, Memoirs, II, 95.
               
                     and had demonstrated his military ability in 1863; yet, those
                    qualifications apparently were inadequate. 
                        Lincoln
                     did not provide a clear-cut explanation for his deferral of Hovey's promotion;
                    but the answer seems to lie in the quality of the Indianan's recommendations, the small
                    number of openings existing for major generals by the war's midpoint, and the
                    qualifications of Hovey's competitors. The Indiana interests that Hovey represented had
                    other champions who were solidly dedicated to the 
                        Lincoln
                     administration. Other men appointed for political reasons came from less certain
                    constituencies: Logan from the Upper South residents of southern 
                        Illinois
                    , Blair from politically volatile 
                        Missouri
                    , and Osterhaus from the vocal and radical 
                        German
                    -American community. Hovey was a mainstream politician with only one outstanding
                    campaign to his credit. His support was desirable but not essential, so 
                        Lincoln
                     offered him enough to retain his services but not so much as to hinder the patronage
                    power he needed to secure the good will of more valuable men. The president's insistence on
                    keeping Hovey in the army illustrated his successful efforts to balance the sometimes conflicting
                    requirements of politics and military professionalism.
            The degeneration of Hovey's field efficiency did not render him a supernumerary in the army.
                    In August, while awaiting a decision on his resignation, Hovey assumed command of a few Indiana
                    militiamen and conducted a foray into 
                        Kentucky
                    . Rebel forces had gathered there, apparently to menace Indiana, and he could not sit
                    idly by while his home was in danger. The action resulted in unimportant skirmishing, but it sparked
                    efforts by the War Department to give him further employment. Ignoring the resignation, Stanton
                    assigned him to command the District of Indiana, and he accepted. Hovey left the army long after the
                    war's end, in October, 1865.32
            
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     managed in Hovey's small case to put his house in order. The
                    political-military game was not always equitable, logical, or even sensible. Many men played it well
                    and emerged successful citizen soldiers. Many others, such as Hovey, found the system dysfunctional
                    and left it embittered. After the publication of Sherman's memoirs, Hovey complained that
                    the general did not mention his inconsequential part in the battle of Resaca. Sherman had ignored
                    his "brilliant and effective charge," which had no equal "in the pages of
                    history," and Hovey could not understand 
                  
                     32 Hovey to Thomas, September 8, 1864, Official
                            Records, Vol. XXXIX, Part 1, pp. 465–66; Special Orders No. 170, Northern
                            Department, August 25, 1864, ibid., Part 2, p. 303; Heitman, Historical Register, I, 545.
               
                     why his superior had "thought proper to deprive me of a
                    part of my Indiana troops."33 Hovey's rewards had not kept
                    pace with his ambition, and a good field commander and vigorous supporter of the war effort
                    developed into a carping and inefficient leader fit only for administrative work. Hovey went on to
                    become a successful postwar politician in Indiana, but he never forgot the political defeats he
                    suffered as a citizen soldier.
            
               
                  33 Walker, Hovey and Chase, 116.
            
         
         
         
            The Iroquois as "Geographic" Middlemen:
            A Research Note
            Richard Aquila∗
            
            The Iroquois middleman theory has long been a source of contention for historians. Proponents of this
                    hypothesis believe that the Iroquois, or Five Nations, of colonial 
                        New York
                     acted as "economic" middlemen between English merchants and Indians
                    of the upper Great Lakes country. According to the theory, seventeenth-century Iroquois traders
                    obtained manufactured goods at 
                        Albany
                     and carried them westward, where they were exchanged for furs trapped by western
                    Indians. Opponents of the idea argue that the Iroquois never became effective economic middlemen.
            Charles H. McIlwain was the first modern historian to emphasize the Iroquois' role in
                    carrying English goods westward to trade among the Great Lakes tribes. "The great
                    rôle of the Iroquois," wrote McIlwain in 1915, "was that of middlemen
                    between the ‘Far Indians’ and the English, a rôle which enabled
                    them … to retain that position of superiority over the Indians of the eastern half of the 
                        United States
                    ."1 In 1940 George T. Hunt elaborated upon
                    McIlwain's ideas in his widely acclaimed The Wars of the Iroquois: A Study in
                        Intertribal Trade Relations. Hunt's work detailing the Iroquois' economic
                    motives for warfare against their Indian neighbors brought about a general acceptance of the
                    economic middleman theory, which remained unchallenged for the next twenty years.2
            
            The flaws in the McIlwain-Hunt thesis were exposed in 1962 by Allen W. Trelease in an article
                    entitled "The Iroquois and the Western Fur Trade: A Problem in Interpretation."
                    While admitting that the Iroquois might have had ambitions to become middlemen and might even have
                    served as middlemen on occasion, 
                  
                     ∗ Richard Aquila is associate professor of history, Ball
                            State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Peter Wraxall, An Abridgement of the Indian Affairs
                                … Transacted in the Colony of 
                                    New York
                                 from the Year 1678 to the Year 1751, ed. Charles H. McIlwain (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1915), xlii.
                  
                     2 George T. Hunt, The Wars of the Iroquois: A Study in
                                Intertribal Trade Relations (
                                Madison
                            , 1940).
               
                     Trelease proved that the evidence behind the McIlwain-Hunt
                    theory was doubtful at best. Trelease's more weighty evidence showed that the Iroquois
                    never played a major role as middlemen carrying English goods westward to trade for furs trapped by
                    Far Indians of the upper Great Lakes country.3 Most historians today generally
                    accept Trelease's conclusion that Iroquois middleman activity in the western fur trade was
                    "sporadic and of slight importance." They believe, as Bruce G. Trigger states in
                    the Handbook of North American Indians, that "there is … no
                    convincing evidence that prior to 1673 the Iroquois were interested in exploiting their central
                    location in relationship to other tribes in order to play the role of middlemen."4
            
            Unfortunately, this controversy over whether the Five Nations were economic middlemen in the
                    seventeenth century has obscured another type of middleman position developed by the Iroquois in the
                    eighteenth century. The Iroquois might not have been middlemen in the manner described by Trelease,
                    Hunt, and others, but after 1700 they were middlemen in another sense. Instead of functioning as
                    "economic" middlemen who transported goods westward, the Five Nations became
                    "geographic" middlemen by inviting western Indians to travel through Iroquoia to
                    the English trade at 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Oswego
                    . This strategy was an excellent blend of geopolitics and economic diplomacy, for it
                    enabled the Iroquois to use their geographic location between the Indians of the upper Great Lakes
                    region and the traders of 
                        New York
                     as a lever to obtain peace with the western tribes, hunting and trading privileges in
                    the Ohio Country, trade with Indian travelers who came into Iroquoia, and additional political and
                    economic concessions from both Indians and whites.
            The Iroquois needed to develop the geographic middleman role because of their weakened economic and
                    military position after 1701. Having trapped out their homelands of beaver by 1640, 
                  
                     3 Allen W. Trelease, "The Iroquois and the Western Fur Trade:
                            A Problem in Interpretation," Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review, XLIX (June, 1962), 48–51.
                  
                     4 Trelease, "Iroquois and the Western Fur Trade,"
                            43, 48; Bruce G. Trigger, "Early Iroquoian Contacts with Europeans," in
                                Handbook of North American Indians: Northeast, ed. Bruce G. Trigger
                            (Vol. XV; 
                                Washington
                            , 1978), 353; Trigger, The Children of Aataentsic: A History of the
                                Huron People to 1660 (2 vols., 
                                Montreal
                            , 1976), II, 729; Thomas Elliot Norton, The Fur Trade in Colonial 
                                    New York
                                , 1686–1776 (
                                Madison
                            , 1974), 13, 14, 17, 34–38. Evidence that the Iroquois did
                            occasionally serve as economic middlemen can be found in Edmund B. O'Callaghan and
                            Berthold Fernow, eds., Documents Relative to the Colonial History of the State
                                of 
                                    New York
                                
                      … (15 vols., 
                                Albany
                            , 1853–1887), IX, 646, 647, 822, 1081, 1088–91, 1092;
                            Frank Severance, "The Story of Joncaire" (Publications of the 
                                    Buffalo
                                 Historical Society, Vol. IX; 
                                Buffalo
                            , 1906), 102; Samuel Hazard, ed., Pennsylvania Archives
                                … 1st Series (12 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1852–1856), I, 265.
               
                     they had turned to the Western Country (i.e., the lands of the
                    upper Great Lakes region) as their primary source of furs for the valuable 
                        Albany
                     trade. The Five Nations had won the right to hunt in the West by defeating the Hurons,
                    Neutrals, Eries, and other western tribes in a series of beaver wars in the mid-seventeenth century,
                    but their hegemony in the area was short-lived. By the turn of the century the Iroquois, who had
                    lost nearly half their warriors in bloody fighting against the French and western tribes during King
                    William's War, were no longer able to defend by force hunting rights in the West.5 The Five Nations realized, however, that their economic well-being, and
                    perhaps their very existence, depended on their being able to hunt safely in the Western Country.
                    The Iroquois also were aware that they would suffer many casualties in the event of renewed
                    hostilities with the numerous and powerful western tribes. These realizations set the stage for the
                    shift in Iroquois policy toward rapprochement with the western Indians in the early eighteenth
                    century. The Five Nations hoped that where a policy of war had failed to provide them with a source
                    of furs from the Western Country a policy of peace would succeed. They also hoped that whereas
                    warfare had failed to give them dominance and influence over the western Indians diplomacy would
                    succeed. In addition, the Iroquois soon recognized that benefits other than safety and hunting
                    privileges could accrue from a policy of peace toward their western neighbors. At that point choice
                    replaced necessity as the mother of the Iroquois' rapprochement strategy.6
            
            The first step toward improved relations with western Indians came in 1701 when Iroquois deputies
                    journeyed to 
                        Montreal
                     to treat with the French and their Indian allies. The Five Nations hoped that French
                    mediation and protection would improve their relations with the western tribes. The Grand Settlement
                    of 1701 established the Five Nations' neutrality in any future wars between 
                        England
                     and 
                        France
                    , a peace between the Iroquois and New 
                        France
                    's northern and western Indian allies, and the right of all Indians to hunt
                    safely in the Western Country. At the conference New 
                        France
                    's Governor Louis Hector de Callières Bonnevue stated confidently
                    that peace and the right to hunt were 
                  
                     5 Hunt, Wars of the Iroquois; Elisabeth Tooker,
                            "The League of the Iroquois: Its History, Politics, and Ritual," in Handbook of North American Indians: Northeast, XV, 421, 430–32;
                            Richard Aquila, The Iroquois Restoration: Iroquois Diplomacy on the Colonial
                                Frontier, 1701–54 (
                                Detroit
                            , 1983), chapters 1–3.
                  
                     6 For information regarding the implementation of the peace policy,
                            see Anthony F. C. Wallace, "Origins of Iroquois Neutrality: The Grand Settlement of
                            1701," Pennsylvania History, XXIV (July, 1957),
                            223–35; Aquila, Iroquois Restoration, chapter 5.
               
                     assured. He added that should the peace be broken the aggrieved
                    party should not take revenge but should come to him for justice.7
                    Callières's words were exactly what the Iroquois wanted to hear. Even though
                    skirmishes and battles might, and did, occur from time to time thereafter, the Five Nations had a
                    French ally who promised to punish any Indians who violated the cease-fire and from whom they could
                    seek justice and protection.8
            
            Not only did the Settlement of 1701 allow the Iroquois to hunt and travel throughout the West in
                    relative safety, it also provided them with the chance to visit the villages of the western tribes
                    to peddle their most important asset: their willingness to allow the western Indians to cross
                    Iroquoia to obtain English trade goods. Since the 1680s 
                        New York
                     officials and traders had been trying to convince the Iroquois that trade with the
                    tribes of the Great Lakes country would benefit the Five Nations as well as the English. The great
                    losses suffered in King William's War forced the Iroquois to consider the New
                    Yorkers' proposal seriously. In 1700 
                        New York
                    's governor, the Earl of Bellomont, had stated: "you must needs be
                    sensible that the Dowagenhaws, Twichtwees, Ottowawas & Diondedees [Dowagenhaes, Miamis,
                    Ottawas, and Tobaccos] and the other Remote Indians are vastly more numerous than you 5 Nations, and
                    that by their continued Warring upon you they will in a few years totally destroy you
                    …." Bellomont suggested that the Iroquois "try all possible Means to
                    fix a Trade & correspondence with all those Nations, by which you would retain them to
                    yourselves, and," he added, "with my Assistance I am in hopes in a short time they
                    might be brought to be united with us in the Covenant Chain, and then you might at all times go a
                    hunting into their Country without any sort… of hazzard which I understand is much the
                    best for Bever hunting."9
            
            The Five Nations had listened carefully and apparently agreed with Bellomont. Hoping to establish a
                    geographic middleman position 
                  
                     7
                            Documents Relative to the Colonial History of 
                                    New York
                                , IX, 722; Pierre François Xavier de Charlevoix, History and General Description of New 
                                    France
                                
                      (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1866–1872), V, 141–54; Wallace, "Origins of
                            Iroquois Neutrality," 233–35; William M. Beauchamp, A
                                History of the 
                                    New York
                                 Iroquois … (
                                Albany
                            , 1905), 255.
                  
                     8 Charlevoix, History and General Description of New 
                                    France
                                , V, 165, 179, 225; Documents Relative to the Colonial
                                History of 
                                    New York
                                , IX, 765, 767, 768, 848, 1089, V, 243; "Cadillac
                            Papers" (Michigan Pioneer and Historical Collections, Vol.
                            XXXIII; Lansing, 1904), 285, 592; Reuben Gold Thwaites, ed., The French Regime
                                in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                —I, 1634–1727 (Collections of the State Historical
                                Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , Vol. XVI; 
                                Madison
                            , 1902), 230; Wraxall, Abridgement of the Indian Affairs, 78.
                  
                     9 Wraxall, Abridgement of the Indian Affairs, 34.
                            The "Covenant Chain" to which Bellomont referred was an alliance which
                            joined together the British, Iroquois, and other pro-English tribes.
               
                     by offering free and safe passage through Iroquoia to 
                        Albany
                     and later 
                        Oswego
                    , they dangled before the western Indians the opportunity to obtain English manufactured
                    goods, which were better quality yet less expensive than French products.10 In
                    return, the western tribes had to remain at peace with the Iroquois and not molest Iroquois hunters
                    in the West. Many western Indians, wanting English trade goods, quickly accepted the
                    Iroquois' proposal.11
            
            In 1710 English observers were able to record the proceedings of a conference between the Iroquois
                    and one western tribe. Cad-wallader Colden, who served as 
                        New York
                    's lieutenant governor, reported that the Five Nations prepared for their talks
                    with the Waganhas (Ottawas) by soliciting English support. Colden noted that the Iroquois sent
                    messengers to 
                        Albany
                     "to tell that they design'd to meet some Waganha Sachems in the
                    General Meeting to be held at Onondaga & therefore desir'd their Bretheren to send
                    some persons of Note … to represent their Brother Corlaer & to bring some of the
                    River Indian Sachems along with them. Captain Evert Banker & Mr. David Schuyler were
                    sent." The conference between the Waganhas, Iroquois, River Indians (i.e., remnant bands of
                    Algonquian-speaking Indians living along the Hudson River), and English convened during the first
                    week in June. According to Colden, the Senecas first met privately with the rest of the Iroquois and
                    told them "that when the Waganha Ambassadors came this last time to them they spoke to the
                    Ambassadors as follows We take you by the hand to conduct you to our Brother Corlaer &
                    Quieder The Doors stand every where open for you Your lodgings are prepared from the
                    Senneka's Country to that of our Brother Corlaer & Quieder The Path is made plain
                    & easy & there is no evil in our Country."12
            
            On June 7 the Iroquois, in conjunction with the 
                        New York
                     government and the River Indians, presented the following wampum belts to the Waganhas:
                        
                  
                     10
                            Documents Relative to the Colonial History of 
                                    New York
                                , V, 728–29, 730.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 65, 691, 748, IV, 979–81, IX, 743, 751, 763, 774, 811;
                            "Cadillac Papers," 118, 395, 431; Lawrence H. Leder, ed., The
                                Livingston Indian Records, 1666–1723 (
                                Gettysburg
                            , 1956), 196; Cadwallader Colden, "Continuation of Colden's
                            History of the Five Indian Nations, for the Years 1707 through 1720" (Collections of 
                                    New York
                                 Historical Society, Vol. LXVIII; 
                                New York
                            , 1937), 367, 370–72; Wraxall, Abridgement of the Indian
                                Affairs, 55, 58, 59, 66, 67, 68.
                  
                     12 Colden, "Continuation of Colden's
                            History," 381–83. Arent Van Curler was the Dutch governor of colonial 
                                New York
                             during the mid-1660s. He and Peter Schuyler, longtime mayor of 
                                Albany
                             and member of the 
                                New York
                             Council, had been so successful in winning the friendship of the Iroquois that
                            the Five Nations continued to address themselves to "Corlaer" and
                            "Quieder" long after the deaths of the two men. Norton, Fur
                                Trade in Colonial 
                                    New York
                                , 70.
               
                    
                    
                        1st Belt Bretheren I Desire a firm & everlasting peace to be kept inviolably not only
                            by us but our children likewise If you shall preserve this Peace our children will grow up
                            in Joy but if you do the Contrary either you or I will repent it
                        2nd Belt Bretheren by this we cleanse your minds & wash away all evil thoughts
                        3rd Belt By this we reconcile the young men our Soldiers to yours that if any nation should
                            after this attack either of us we may jointly defend ourselves & Destroy our Enemies
                            Bretheren if any of our People fall into your Country naked & hungry supply them
                            with Victuals & Cloathing
                        4th Belt Bretheren if any Difference should hereafter happen between any of your people
                            & any of this house [i.e., the Iroquois, River Indians, or English] let no revenge
                            be taken till enquiry make of the Occasion of such Injury Come first to us here if any harm
                            happen to be done by any of our people before you take revenge for you may safely do it
                            & we shall do in like manner with you
                        5th Belt Bretheren I desire that we may walk & travel safely & trade freely
                        6th Belt Bretheren Corlaer and Quieder and the River Indians Speak to you by this Belt as
                            well as the five Nations who altogether make one house here. The Path from the place where
                            you live to 
                                Albany
                             is beaten & made plain by this Belt and all molestation or trouble
                            removed out of the way. If any other Nation would walk in this path who is not acquainted
                            with it help him forward You have a free & safe passage to my Brother Corlaer to
                            walk in it as you please without Molestation
                        7th Belt Bretheren We hear that one of your Great Sachems who allways inclined to our Brother
                            Corlaer and Quieder is Dead We desire you may put another good man in his room13
                  
                    
                
            As soon as the Iroquois sachem completed his speech, 
                        Albany
                     agents presented two strowd blankets and other gifts to clothe the new Waganha sachem.
                    The following day the Waganhas gave their reply: 
                        [Belt] 1 Bretheren Corlaer & Quieder You have accepted me for your child I have last
                            summer sucked one of your Breasts but now I am come to suck them both Have compassion on us
                            as a Father hath on his Children Father I take the hatchet out of your hands because you
                            have spoken of Peace that you may have Peace every where …
                        [Belt 2] Father you have taken me into your Covenant Chain which shall be preserved so firmly
                            that no ax shall be able to cut it asunder …
                        [Belt] 3 Father Corlaer & Quieder I am resolved to go to your house to see how the
                            Trade is there & if you use us well we will return next Spring …
                        [Belt] 4 Now Father & Bretheren We accept of the Peace as it is offer'd to
                            us & thank the whole house for it We promis to observe it for ever in token whereof
                            we give these two calumets …14
                  
                    
            
            The conference in 1710 was probably typical of the treaty settlements that occurred between the
                    Iroquois and the western tribes. The Five Nations gave wampum belts to show off their 
                  
                     13 Colden, "Continuation of Colden's
                            History," 381–83, 384–86.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 384–86.
               
                     close English alliance to the Waganhas (belts 6 and 7); to
                    establish peace and an alliance with the Waganhas (belts 1, 2, 3, and 4); to obtain the right to
                    travel and hunt safely in the Western Country (belts 3 and 5); and to offer in exchange to the
                    Waganhas a free and safe passage to the 
                        Albany
                     trade (belt 6). The Waganhas accepted the Iroquois' proposals and presented
                    their own wampum belts to show that they would uphold peace and the Covenant Chain (belts 1 and 2)
                    and that they looked forward to trading at 
                        Albany
                     (belt 3). After 1710 the Iroquois continued their strategy of offering the western
                    tribes free and safe passage to the 
                        Albany
                     trade in return for peace and the right to hunt and travel in the West. As a result,
                    right up until midcentury western Indians regularly traveled through Iroquoia to trade in 
                        New York
                    .15
            
            Although not all Iroquois were eager to have the western Indians passing through their country en
                    route to 
                        Albany
                     or 
                        Oswego
                    ,16 most members of the Five Nations were pleased by the
                    opportunities afforded by the traffic. In addition to peace and the right to hunt and travel safely
                    in the Western Country, many Iroquois were able to develop a lucrative trade with western Indians
                    passing through Iroquoia. The Iroquois provided travelers with the goods and services needed for the
                    journey; in exchange, the Iroquois received furs which they resold to English traders for a
                    substantial profit.17 Many members of the Five Nations also believed that the
                    western tribes' traffic would result in better trade values for all Indians. These Iroquois
                    had been convinced by New Yorkers, who were eager to trade with western tribes, 
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 403, 417, 420, 424, 430–32; Wraxall, Abridgement of the Indian Affairs, 112, 122, 144, 159, 171, 173, 197; Thwaites,
                                French Regime in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                —I, 383, 395, 399; Reuben Gold Thwaites, The
                                French Regime in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                —II, 1727–1748 (Collections of the State Historical
                                Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , Vol. XVII; 
                                Madison
                            , 1906), 409, 446; Severance, "Story of Joncaire," 111;
                            "Cadillac Papers," 594; Documents Relative to the Colonial
                                History of 
                                    New York
                                , IV, 112, 113, 586, 693, VI, 135, 366, 388, 537, 538, 714, IX, 952,
                            953, 1049; Leder, Livingston Indian Records, 232–35; James
                            Sullivan et al., eds., The Papers of Sir William Johnson
                            (14 vols., 
                                Albany
                            , 1921–1965), I, 105, 183, XIII, 11, IX, 61, 79, 125–28;
                            Theodore Calvin Pease and Ernestine Jenison, eds., Illinois on the Eve of the
                                Seven Years' War, 1747–1755 (Collections of the Illinois State
                                Historical Library, Vol. XXIX; 
                                Springfield
                            , 1943), 347, 348.
                  
                     16 Occasionally some members of the Five Nations tried to prevent
                            western Indians from trading in 
                                New York
                            . For example, in 1710 several Iroquois men nearly disrupted negotiations with
                            the Ottawas when they became drunk and threatened to kill the 
                                Ottawa
                             representatives. Five years later a group of pro-French Onondagas attacked some
                            western Indians in order to stop them from trading in 
                                Albany
                            . Wraxall, Abridgement of the Indian Affairs,
                            148–49, 71, 103; Colden, "Continuation of Colden's
                            History," 419.
                  
                     17 "Cadillac Papers," 415, 416, 445; Thwaites, French Regime in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                —I, 334, 335; Documents Relative to the
                                Colonial History of 
                                    New York
                                , V, 741, 911, IX, 998; Colden, "Continuation of
                            Colden's History," 383; Burnet to Board of Trade, June 25, 1723, quoted in
                            Severance, "Story of Joncaire," 143.
               
                     that the increase in business at 
                        Albany
                     would cause goods to become more plentiful and less expensive.18
                    Indeed, the Five Nations were so convinced that the English-western Indian trade was beneficial to
                    them that they frequently asked the English to improve trade conditions so that even more western
                    Indians would be drawn to 
                        Albany
                    . The Iroquois argued that they could be more successful in building good relations with
                    the western tribes if the British would lower retail prices. Cheaper goods, they argued, would be
                    more of an inducement to draw the western Indians to the English trading centers. The Iroquois were
                    even willing to pay higher prices for trade goods than the western Indians if it meant an increase
                    in trade and better relations with those tribes.19
            
            The Iroquois also asked the English to curb unfair trade practices. Sachems pointed out that the Far
                    Indians came to trade once, but after being cheated they never came back again. Apparently, the Five
                    Nations told the western Indians that they could find cheap prices for manufactured goods and
                    quality rum if they journeyed through Iroquoia and traded at 
                        Albany
                     or 
                        Oswego
                    . The use of such a sales pitch by the Iroquois would explain their comments made to
                    Governor William Cosby at a conference in 1735. They complained that at 
                        Oswego
                     the prices were too high and the rum was diluted, both of which made the Iroquois look
                    like liars in the eyes of the western tribes.20
            
            Along with asking for better prices and trade practices, the Iroquois frequently sought prohibition
                    of the 
                        Montreal
                    -
                        Albany
                     trade, which had been conducted between the merchants of those two cities from the turn
                    of the century. By enabling French merchants to obtain highly valued English manufactured goods that
                    they then used in trade with western tribes, the 
                        Montreal
                    -
                        Albany
                     traffic undermined the efforts of the Five Nations to draw the western tribes to 
                        Albany
                     through Iroquoia. If, however, the English outlawed the 
                        Montreal
                    -
                        Albany
                     trade, the western tribes would have no other choice but to bring their business
                    through the Iroquois homeland.21 In the early 1720s Governor William Burnet
                        
                  
                     18
                            Documents Relative to the Colonial History of 
                                    New York
                                , IV, 990, V, 218, 221, 374, 715, 716, 861, 963, VI, 135, 102; Wraxall,
                                Abridgement of the Indian Affairs, 62, 64; The Letters
                                and Papers of Cadwallader Colden, Vol. I, 1711–1729
                                (Collections of the 
                                    New York
                                 Historical Society, Vol. L; 
                                New York
                            , 1918), 131.
                  
                     19 Colden, "Continuation of Colden's
                            History," 426, 392, 393; Wraxall, Abridgement of the Indian
                            Affairs, 204, 205; Documents Relative to the Colonial History of 
                                    New York
                                , V, 225, 659; Trelease, "Iroquois and the Western Fur
                            Trade," 45.
                  
                     20 Wraxall, Abridgement of the Indian Affairs, 111,
                            188, 195.
                  
                     21 Colden, "Continuation of Colden's
                            History," 412, 425, 430; for additional information about the 
                                Montreal
                            -
                                Albany
                             trade see Norton, Fur Trade in Colonial 
                                    New York
                                , chapter 6.
               
                     did shut down the commerce between 
                        Montreal
                     and 
                        Albany
                    , and, as the Iroquois predicted, many Far Indians began coming to 
                        New York
                     to obtain goods they could no longer get from the French. The Iroquois'
                    satisfaction was short-lived. On June 16, 1725, Britain's Board of Trade, spurred on by
                    merchant interests, repealed the acts banning the 
                        Montreal
                    -
                        Albany
                     trade on the grounds that they violated 
                        New York
                     traders' civil rights. Soon thereafter the Iroquois were again complaining
                    about 
                        New York
                    's trade with 
                        Canada
                    .22
            
            The Five Nations' continued concern with the commerce between 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Montreal
                     illustrates the importance of their geographic location between the English and the
                    western tribes. Although the Iroquois very seldom acted as seventeenth-century
                    "economic" middlemen in the manner described by McIlwain and Hunt, their
                    eighteenth-century "geographic" middleman position benefited them in numerous
                    ways. The Five Nations, in return for granting the western Indians free and safe passage through
                    Iroquoia, received a guarantee of peace and safety for Iroquois hunters in the Western Country. As
                    an added dividend, some Iroquois profited by trading with western Indians as they passed through
                    Iroquoia to and from 
                        Albany
                    . Further, the Iroquois geographic middleman position forced the English to remain on
                    good political and economic terms with the Iroquois in exchange for the Five Nations'
                    consent to allow the western tribes a free and safe passage to the 
                        New York
                     trade. The western Indians were also cognizant of the Iroquois' geographic
                    importance. In order to obtain safe passage through Iroquoia and thus access to English trade goods,
                    which were a better quality than the higher-priced French products, the western Indians had to
                    remain at peace with the Five Nations, a peace that the war-weakened Iroquois desperately needed.
                    Not only did the Iroquois' geographic middleman position help to neutralize a potentially
                    dangerous enemy, it also helped transform that enemy into a friend. Furthermore, for every tribe
                    that became an Iroquois ally, there was one less group willing to join the French in war against the
                    Five Nations. The Iroquois' military position, therefore, improved with every Indian nation
                    that agreed to journey through Iroquoia for trade with the English. In short, the Iroquois benefited
                    economically, politically, diplomatically, and militarily by establishing themselves as geographic
                    middlemen.
            The Iroquois' success as geographic middlemen also had a significant impact on the
                    development of the northern colonial 
                  
                     22
                            Documents Relative to the Colonial History of 
                                    New York
                                , V, 586, 757, 740, 760–63; Wraxall, Abridgement of the Indian Affairs, 161.
               
                     frontier. Improved economic and political ties between the
                    English and western tribes were important by-products of the Iroquois' efforts, and this
                    alliance opened the way for English mercantile profits and English colonial expansion; ultimately it
                    became a contributing factor in the English-French contest for control of the Ohio Country and North
                    America. When the French realized that the balance of power in the Western Country was tipping
                    toward the English as many tribes accepted Iroquois invitations to trade with the English, French
                    leaders plotted a course of action that plunged them into the Seven Years' War. In the long
                    run, the Iroquois' geographic middleman activities not only provided the Five Nations with
                    economic, political, and military benefits, they also affected the English-French struggle to
                    control the West, the fur trade, and western tribes.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               If You Don't Outdie Me: The Legacy of 
                            Brown County
                        . By Dillon Bustin. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1982. Pp. xi, 143. Map, illustrations, notes. Clothbound,
                    $20.00; paperbound, $12.95.)
            This volume is a provocative and engaging description of 
                        Brown County
                    , Indiana, and its seat, 
                        Nashville
                    , between World Wars I and II. The book also portrays the lives, attitudes, and
                    circumstances of several citizens of the county during the period. Dillon Bustin has edited
                    photographer Frank M. Hohenberger's negatives and diaries to tell the story, but the work
                    is far more than a local history. As the tale unfolds, Bustin calls attention to a family of complex
                    and interesting issues, with ramifications far beyond the county and state.
            Hohenberger was an outsider who moved to 
                        Brown County
                     from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , drawn by the same forces that have made the place a haven for artists and tourists
                    throughout the century. The magnet is a vision of 
                        Brown County
                     as a place where time has stood still, a rural community full of geniality, honesty,
                    contentment, and love. The photographer had both a public and private persona. His public side was
                    manifested in the photographs he sold and the column he wrote for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star. Here, he tended to portray the area as pastoral and the people as colorful
                    rustics, and occasionally as bumpkins or hicks. The private side is seen in his diaries and
                    snapshots. Although these offer few glimpses of the man himself, they do highlight
                    Hohenberger's understanding of the complexity of local life. Still, nostalgic stereotyping
                    remains, and Bustin compares this vision—which Hohenberger shared with the other artists
                    who settled in the county—with the rhapsodies of peasant life created by Jean-Francois
                    Millet, William Morris, and Leo Tolstoy. Threading through the book is the theme: why are country
                    people idealized by a certain sort of city person?
            The book's main thrust is to limn a picture of a place and time, using
                    Hohenberger's images and words as paint and brush. The primary device is the portrait:
                    Bustin has painstakingly assembled his materials into chapters about eighteen individuals. The
                    individuals represent the range of local citizens, although, as Bustin notes, Hohenberger's
                    circle of friends consisted largely of bachelors, spinsters, and the moderately outcast.
            In the diary entries readers learn about Hohenberger's relationship with the individuals, a
                    topic further explored in another selection of entries on the photographer's relationship
                    to  the community at large. The relationship had its share of
                    sour moments, usually precipitated by the appearance of one of the Star columns.
                    In these sections Bustin explores the question of how members of different cultural groups
                    understand or fail to understand one another. One naturally expects this theme in, say, Isak
                    Dinesen's Out of Africa (1937) but is gratified to encounter it in a
                    discussion in which all parties are English-speaking Americans of North European ancestry.
            The book's second thrust is history in the more customary sense of the term. In the opening
                    sections and epilog Bustin sketches the county's economic situation, the larger American
                    scene as it impinged on the county, and the aspects of the art world that influenced 
                        Nashville
                    's artist's colony. During this discourse Bustin examines the meaning
                    of the town's "Liar's Bench" and a broader theme emerges. The
                    liar's bench stood in front of the courthouse, an artifact fraught with symbolism. As
                    Bustin notes, it meant one thing to the men who sat on it, another to urban Americans who saw
                    Hohenberger's picturesque image of it, and yet another to the town's women,
                    presumably including the wives of the "idlers" who wasted time there. It was this
                    latter group who finally destroyed the bench. This story not only describes the town's
                    social dynamics but also tells how an object may become a symbol and how symbols are interpreted by
                    the variety of people who confront them.
            The book is well designed, the photographs well reproduced, and Bustin's prose reads
                    smoothly. The excerpts from Hohenberger's diaries tend to be telegraphic and often follow
                    one another for two or three uninterrupted pages. This demands close concentration from the reader,
                    but the method of juxtaposing the man's words and pictures is effective. Bustin had shaped
                    the materials into a humane and insightful chapter in the history of 
                        Brown County
                    . At the same time and without tendentious scholarly writing, the occasion was used to
                    interpret the very process by which the evidence was created. Altogether, If You
                        Don't Outdie Me is a fine and valuable accomplishment.
            
               American Folklife Center, Library of Congress, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C. Carl Fleischhauer
         
         
            
               Harmony on the Connoquenessing, 1803–1815: George Rapp's First
                        American Harmony, a Documentary History. Compiled and edited by Karl J. R. Arndt. (
                        Worcester
                    , Mass.: Harmony Society  Press, 1980. Pp. xliv,
                    1021. Illustrations, notes, index, end map. $38.00.)
            
               Harmony on the Wabash in Transition, 1824–1826. Transitions to: George
                        Rapp's "Divine Economy" on the 
                            Ohio
                        , and Robert Owen's "New Moral World" at 
                            New Harmony
                         on the 
                            Wabash
                        . A Documentary History. Compiled and edited by Karl J. R. Arndt. (
                        Worcester
                    , Mass.: Harmony Society Press, 1982. Pp. xl, 876. Illustrations, notes, index-register,
                    end map. $40.00.)
            The tricentennial of 
                        German
                     immigration to North America (1683–1983) and the history of communitarianism
                    in Pennsylvania and Indiana are well served by Karl J. R. Arndt's two most recent additions
                    to his meticulously compiled and annotated documentary history of the Harmony Society.
                    Chronologically second and fifth in his series, these volumes continue to flesh out in minute detail
                    the saga of economic, cultural, and communal achievements and conflicts of the 1,200 pietistic
                    Separatists from Württemberg who followed the millennialistic vision of George Rapp to
                    America after 1803 and built Harmony and Economy (now Ambridge), 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana. Most readers will find Arndt's George Rapp's
                        Harmony Society, 1785–1847 (1972) a welcome guide to these works.
            Documents illuminate such subjects as the Harmonists' arrival, settlement, formal agreements
                    of association, adoption of a common treasury and celibacy, economic and political influence,
                    reasons for moving to Indiana territory in 1815 and returning to Pennsylvania a decade later,
                    building of their steamboat William Penn, and their dependence upon the Wabash and
                        Ohio rivers. George Rapp's mystical passages and prophetic
                    interpretations of current events appear in pastoral letters together with his comments regarding
                    the publication and English translation of his Thoughts on the Destiny of Man
                    (1824), the first book of religious philosophy printed in Indiana.
            Arndt presents two types of evidence to support his main contention that Rapp's religious
                    community was the antithesis of the misguided, nonsectarian communal experiments of Robert Owen at 
                        New Harmony
                     (whom Arndt diagnoses as a megalomaniac in Harmony on the 
                            Wabash
                        , p. xxiv) and Frances Wright at 
                        Nashoba
                    , near 
                        Memphis
                    . First are sources that have long been in print but are conveniently included here to
                    carry the narrative. These include President Thomas Jefferson's 1804 letter to Albert
                    Gallatin attempting to facilitate Harmonist settlement on public lands in Ohio and John
                    Melish's favorable account of his 1811 visit to Harmony, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , which brought the Harmonists  their initial fame in
                    Europe and America and first attracted Robert Owen's attention to their successful
                    collectivism. Also reprinted are passages from Owenite sources such as the diaries of Robert Dale
                    Owen and Donald MacDonald; Robert Owen's radical Fourth of July Oration, which, contrary to
                    Arndt's suggestion, has always been readily accessible in the New-Harmony Gazette of July 12, 1826; and the published observations of both Owen's 
                        New Harmony
                     and Rapp's Economy by Duke Bernard of Wiemar in the editor's new
                    translation. The second type of sources composing the bulk of these volumes includes Harmony Society
                    records and letters to and from George Rapp, his adopted son, Frederick, and a handful of other
                    Harmonists, including several women. These are selected from Arndt's own extensive private,
                    and still closed, collection at Clark University, the result of his forty years of tireless
                    research. Documents in 
                        German
                     are provided in English translation with valuable, if not totally unbiased, summaries
                    and notes but without direct citations to locate the original documents in his archives.
            The abuses of authoritarian leadership and intentionally devious organizational policies often
                    associated with cultist communal groups surfaced in the Harmony Society. George Rapp held spiritual
                    control and maintained group solidarity through his charismatic mysticism while his adopted son,
                    Frederick, directed the society's business affairs. George discouraged members'
                    private correspondence, censored their mail, implemented his utilitarian concept of women, and
                    eliminated potential challenges to his leadership by removing capable men from positions of
                    authority by vindictive acts of personal jealousy. George and Frederick never shared annual reports
                    of communal income and expenses with the membership. Reports of members' inheritances
                    collected for the society in 
                        Germany
                     were transmitted only in code. Frederick eventually speculated heavily with the
                    community's multiplying wealth without members' knowledge. Arndt is convinced that
                    the grasp for power represented by the "Declaration," which the members apparently
                    signed in 1825 and which put all society property in Frederick's name but which was not
                    legally filed until after his death in 1834, helped cause the great Harmonist schism when one third
                    left Economy in 1832. Despite Arndt's best investigative efforts, mystery still shrouds
                    when and why the society generated, signed, and made legal its organizational documents and whether
                    the ugly rumor that George Rapp inadvertently killed his only son, John, by castration in 1812 has
                    substance. John did not sign the society's first Articles of Association but did marry and
                    did father a child in the celibate community. Therefore, Arndt feels obligated to take the rumor  seriously enough to offer religious explanations that could
                    account for the elder Rapp's rationalization of such an heinous act.
            All this induces the leading Harmonist authority, who in 1980 revived the Harmony Society Press to
                    complete his publications, to lament that "the most disappointing, disillusioning and yet
                    undeniable result of my long and thorough research into the history of Rapp's determination
                    to build the City of God on earth is the inescapable fact that an element of doubt and uncertainity,
                    if not premeditated ‘pious’ fraud, clings to most of the important documents
                    of Rapp's Society as far as its honesty toward the members of the Society is
                    concerned" (Harmony on the 
                            Wabash
                        , p. 597).
            
               Indiana State University 
                            Evansville
                        
                Donald E. Pitzer
         
         
            
               Dreiser and His Fiction: A Twentieth–Century Quest. By Lawrence E.
                    Hussman, Jr. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : University of Pennsylvania Press, 1983. Pp. viii, 215. Notes, index.
                    $22.50.)
            So many elements in Theodore Dreiser the man and Theodore Dreiser the artist elude satisfactory
                    intellectual explanation and seem to embody the very essence of contradiction: Dreiser was the man
                    who strenuously attacked the Soviet system in print but who also referred to Stalin as the
                    "White Christ" and who, almost on his deathbed, applied for membership in the
                    Communist party; the creator of books at once harsh in their indictment of the American system and
                    sloppily sentimental about underlying religious and moral values; and the sometimes incisive thinker
                    who was also the often impossibly awkward, almost inarticulate writer.
            In Dreiser and His Fiction Lawrence E. Hussman, Jr., sees these and other problems
                    as parts of an underlying unity—the effort of an engaged mind to respond to the chaos in
                    himself and in the world and to make sense of both. Treating in chronological order all of the
                    novels and significant stories and essays as well, Hussman proposes that Dreiser's life was
                    a struggle toward solution: "Having cut himself off from religious beliefs at the outset of
                    an increasingly skeptical, materialistic age, he was nonetheless plagued by a gnawing need to
                    believe in some transcendent reality. His personal search and the art that flowed from it
                    represented an anguished attempt to find not only a worthy worldly ideal but also a method of living
                    that could guarantee secular salvation in the form of fulfillment" (p. 194). Those readers
                    who know only Sister Carrie and An American Tragedy may not
                    easily accept this notion of a religious goal in Dreiser's thinking; but those who also
                    know The "Genius," The Bulwark, and The Stoic
                     will appreciate its value as a reconciliation of the apparent
                    dissimilarities in idea and attitude in Dreiser's fiction.
            In addressing his topic, Hussman makes several significant contributions of other kinds: he uses all
                    of Dreiser's fiction, not just selected works, to see the life and work whole; he provides
                    close critical readings of the fiction and draws not only upon the published versions but also upon
                    the manuscripts; and he takes Dreiser out of the narrow confines of literary naturalism to perceive
                    his sometimes mechanistic and Social Darwinistic ideas as part of a larger effort to understand, an
                    effort that also embraced Quakerism, Hinduism, even traditional Christianity.
            The only flaws in this otherwise very sound book are an occasional plodding dissertation quality:
                    some patches of biography which have no clear function, stiff catalogs of other critical opinion of
                    books and issues, bits of awkward and inefficient prose. The sensible reader, however, will forgive
                    these faults for the valuable organizing insight about Dreiser lying beneath.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                David J. Nordloh
         
         
            
               On the Banks of the 
                            Wabash
                        : A Photograph Album of Greater 
                            Terre Haute
                        , 1900–1950. Edited by Dorothy Weinz Jerse and Judith Stedman
                    Calvert; photography editor, Kenneth W. Martin. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1983. Pp. 128. Illustrations, index. Clothbound,
                    $20.00; paperbound, $12.95.)
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                     entered the twentieth century alive with urban potential. Varied industries, good
                    transportation, attractive agricultural surroundings, and a confident booster spirit all favored
                    growth. The 
                        Vigo County
                     seat nearly doubled in population between 1900 and 1920, while its downtown area
                    mirrored the aggressive business expansion of other successful trade centers. After 1920, however, 
                        Terre Haute
                    's urban prospects faded. Population growth ended, local business began to
                    falter, and rude "sin city" barbs began to be hurled by outsiders. Individual
                    success stories stood in contrast to community problems and invited study and explanation.
            Between 1979 and 1982 the 
                        Vigo County
                     Historical Society conducted an elaborate photographic history project designed to
                    collect and interpret materials of the years from 1900 to 1950. Grant funding permitted the society
                    both to collect materials and to use those photographs as the basis for interpretive public
                    programs. The resulting book contains over three hundred examples of the scenes and portraits
                    assembled during the search.
            
            A majority of the illustrations are the product of one local source, Martins Photo Shop. Two
                    generations operated this family firm from 1906 to 1976 and retained a commercial file of scenes and
                    portraits whose range and technical quality are very good, if sometimes rather bland in content. The
                    Martin contribution is supplemented from fifteen other local sources of more uneven quality.
            The editors made several key decisions in their selection of photographs for On the
                        Banks of the 
                            Wabash
                        . Local landmarks and group pictures are presented in preference to individual
                    portraiture; the years after 1920 receive substantially greater coverage than those before; and
                    chronology is subordinated to a topical treatment. The emphasis is upon personal and local
                    experience: in work, family, social service, recreation, and community response to wars and
                    depression. There is a serious attempt to incorporate the undersides of urban life so seldom found
                    in the visual record. Very little text accompanies the pictures, suggesting the original
                    project's desire to stimulate individual response and public discussion. A number of the
                    captions, however, contain effective and often unexpected insights along with the usual
                    identifications.
            
               On the Banks of the 
                            Wabash
                        
                is intended for a local audience and should serve to further understanding of 
                        Terre Haute
                    's mixed record of achievement. The book also deserves attention as a model for
                    other urban centers of some of the ways by which photographs can become a basis for local historical
                    inquiry.
            
               
                  
                            Butler
                         University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                George W. Geib
         
         
            
               Sacred Sands: The Struggle for Community in the Indiana Dunes. By J. Ronald
                    Engel. (
                        Middletown
                    , Conn.: Wesleyan University Press, 1983. Pp. xxii, 352. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    index. $24.95.)
            J. Ronald Engel has written an informative volume that will be useful for a variety of readers,
                    including those interested in the history of the ecological movement in the 
                        United States
                    , those concerned about the competition for control of natural and scenic resources, and
                    those committed to the preservation of representative areas of native habitat and natural
                    environment. This book blends historical description, religious analysis, and social criticism in an
                    interdisciplinary manner. It holds special interest for persons located in the Midwest, the 
                        Chicago
                     area, and the state of Indiana.
            
            Engel places the twentieth-century effort to preserve the Indiana Dunes into the context of a larger
                    movement in the Midwest "to reform the democratic faith of the nation" (p. xviii).
                    He sees the band of crusaders seeking to save the shoreline of Lake Michigan from industrial and
                    commercial exploitation and destruction— a group composed of political, cultural,
                    scientific, and artistic figures, principally Chicagoans or residents of northern
                    Indiana—as informed by a vision of community interdependence and opposed to the
                    individualistic and capitalistic ethic of America. Engel identifies several stages in the story: the
                    struggle that preceded the establishment of the Dunes State Park in 1923, the fight at midcentury
                    against increasing industrialization, and the contemporary battle to preserve what little remains.
                    The opening chapter of the book contains an absorbing account of the Dunes pageant of 1917, which
                    dramatized the plight and the potential of the area. The final chapter describes the last-ditch
                    defense of the Dunes mounted by Senator Paul Douglas of 
                        Illinois
                    , who emerges in this volume as an ecological hero by contrast with a long line of
                    Indiana politicians who, in Engel's judgment, sold out to private industry.
            The most creative (and potentially the most controversial) aspect of this volume lies in
                    Engel's description of the "religious dimension" of the Dunes movement.
                    Drawing upon the works of Mircea Eliade and other phenomenologists of religion, Engel associates the
                    reform movement with a "new humanistic faith" emerging at the time, a faith which
                    identifies the "new" citizen as a reflection of the ultimate meaning of American
                    society. He analyzes the pageant of 1917 and its participants, for example, in terms of religious
                    ritual, seeing it as cosmic in scope, a symbolic pilgrimage to the center of the universe. For Engel
                    the Dunes movement cannot be understood apart from this "geocentric" value system.
            This book has a message. Engel echoes Douglas's passionate, almost apocalyptic tone as he
                    writes, "Standing on the last acre of the Dunes we stand symbolically on America's
                    last acre. Therefore to save the Dunes is to save our native land" (p. 237). Himself a
                    professor of social ethics and a committed environmentalist, Engel views the struggle for the Dunes
                    as a measure of basic moral issues in American life.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Stephen J. Stein
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                        's Public Wits: A Chapter in the American Comic Spirit. Edited by
                    Kenny J. Williams and Bernard Duffey. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : Louisiana State University Press, 1983. Pp. xx, 289. Map, illustrations, notes.
                    $22.50.)
            This book works on three levels. First, it is an excellent anthology of comedy, featuring 
                        Chicago
                     humorists—many of them  nationally
                    prominent—from the 1840s to today. Second, though the editors do not directly address it
                    in their otherwise insightful notes, the selections frequently showcase the major comedy types
                    prevalent in the history of American humor, be they the crackerbarrel tendencies of Finley Peter
                    Dunne's Mr. Dooley or the antihero characteristics of Ring Lardner's Mr. Gullible.
                    Third, while the selections often seem to follow national patterns, there still remains a strong
                    regional stamp. This 
                        Chicago
                     orientation is particularly apparent when one considers the continuing influence of
                    politics on the city's humor, from the 1840 satirical attack on President Martin Van Buren
                    which opens the book to the frequently biting commentary of Mike Royko in the closing pages.
            A book of this nature, however, is not to be enjoyed for these reasons only, or even just for the new 
                        Chicago
                     framework it brings to well-known humorists such as Dunne or Lardner. The recognition
                    it provides for important but neglected humorists is also valuable. This reviewer most appreciated
                    making contact with the ethnic humor of Charles H. Harris's Carl Pretzel (who surely
                    influenced Dunne's Mr. Dooley) and the travel-book humor of Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     Taylor, whose volumes paralleled the early travel humor of Mark Twain.
            Indiana readers will especially enjoy the inclusion of Hoosier George Ade, who first rose to
                    prominence at the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Morning News (later the Record) during the 1890s. The Ade
                    material is drawn from his celebrated daily column "Stories of the Streets and of the
                    Town" and the even more celebrated early "fables in slang" books.
                    Selections such as "The Fable of the Two Mandolin Players and the Willing
                    Performer" (probably Ade's most honored essay) rank with the best the volume has
                    to offer.
            Editors Kenny J. Williams and Bernard Duffey, professors of English at Duke University, brought
                    excellent credentials to the project. Williams has already authored 
                  
                            Prairie
                         Voices: A Literary History of 
                            Chicago
                         from the Frontier to 1893 (1980); Duffey had written The 
                            Chicago
                         Renaissance in American Letters (1954). In 
                  
                            Chicago
                        's Public Wits they do an admirable job of selecting and critiquing
                    the largely neglected early urban humor of the city (from 1840 to approximately 1880), the
                    heyday-period humor of the 1880s and 1890s, and the more individualized and complex world of
                    twentieth-century 
                        Chicago
                     humorists. This three-part examination of 
                        Chicago
                     wit succeeds because it remains faithful to the editors' perception of the
                    obligations of humor: "to amuse, to perceive with a sense of discovery, and ultimately to
                    offer the reader a hold on a particular world" (p. xvii). For students of  humor, or of 
                        Chicago
                     itself, this volume represents a good investment.
            
               Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        
                Wes D. Gehring
         
         
            
               Trial By Fire: A People's History of the Civil War and Reconstruction.
                    By Page Smith. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1982. Pp. xvi, 1038. End maps, index. $29.95.)
            With this massive volume the indefatigable Page Smith presents the fifth volume in his
                    "People's History" of the 
                        United States
                    , a project that began with his two-volume history of the Revolution. Smith is a
                    narrative historian, a skillful storyteller with a unerring eye for interesting and enlightening
                    detail. This approach makes his work somewhat old-fashioned; it is not what most academic historians
                    are doing these days, as Smith, who has all the credentials of the professional historian, well
                    knows.
            But this book is not addressed to academic historians. Smith's goal is to reach a popular
                    audience, to provide a readable study based on modern scholarship but accessible to the general
                    reader. He feels that much of modern historical scholarship, especially that concerning
                    Reconstruction, seldom gets beyond the confines of the academy. As a result, the true record of
                    Reconstruction and its accomplishments is largely unknown. Revisionist historians have provided a
                    fuller and more accurate picture, but their specialized work, Smith insists, has not reached the
                    general public which still considers Reconstruction as a tragic era marked by unrelieved corruption
                    and motivated by a vindictive desire by the victorious North to punish and humiliate the defeated
                    South by imposing upon it domination by ignorant blacks and their vicious, self-seeking white
                    allies, the carpetbaggers and the scalawags. Thus this long book is designed to reach the public
                    that the academic historians have failed to reach.
            If his intended audience provides one meaning for the "people" in Smith's
                    subtitle, his approach to his material provides another. He seeks to depict the lives and fortunes
                    of the people by including ordinary, everyday, homey incidents and by making extensive use of
                    diaries and letters to present these incidents in the words of the participants themselves.
                    Smith's work lacks the methodological apparatus characteristic of the new social history,
                    which shares his goal of describing the lives of the common folk but not his methods. The new social
                    historians would insist that surviving diaries and letters are not typical in any statistical sense;
                    in fact, most are the work of people who are hardly typical in any sense. If the opinions of
                    ordinary soldiers as expressed in  letters and diaries are not
                    typical, they do express the views of ordinary people. The same cannot be said of the diaries of
                    such people as Gideon Welles and George Templeton Strong, which Smith uses extensively.
                    Nevertheless, if the heavy use of such material does not qualify Smith as a new social
                    historian—a goal that he does not seek in any case—it does give his story a
                    dramatic quality that is absent in so much of modern historical scholarship.
            Because this book is not intended to be a work of original scholarship, it would be improper to
                    criticize it for its failings on that score. One questions, however, if Smith has fully achieved his
                    purpose, if the book will reach the audience for which it was designed. A thousand pages of text
                    present a forbidding task even for an avid reader. Although the many interesting anecdotes and
                    descriptions might hold a reader's attention, they might also obscure the major themes
                    Smith attempts to present.
            At the same time, despite its inordinate length, the book scants important parts of the story. Smith
                    gives little attention to what may be called economic reconstruction—the roles of
                    merchants, landowners, blacks, and northerners in building a new work regime and credit system and
                    in writing the laws and establishing the precedents necessary to build a free labor society on the
                    ruins of the slave labor system. Sharecropping, tenancy, and the crop lien do not even get the
                    attention necessary to warrant an entry in the index.
            Despite these reservations, the book can be recommended to the readers for whom it is designed. Smith
                    has written good popular history. In these days when so much of the history written for the popular
                    audience is bad history, Smith's achievement is an important one.
            
               Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        
                Harold D. Woodman
         
         
            
               How the North Won: A Military History of the Civil War. By Herman Hattaway and
                    Archer Jones. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1983. Pp. xii, 762. Maps, illustrations, notes, figures,
                    appendixes, tables, bibliography, index. $24.95.)
            Herman Hattaway and Archer Jones here present a major study of the military conduct of the Civil War,
                    with special emphasis on strategy and logistics. The beginning student of Civil War military history
                    will find the work an unmatched guide to how war was fought in the midnineteenth century. Anyone
                    already well versed in Civil War history will find immensely stimulating the authors'
                    interpretations of Union and Confederate  strategy,
                    interpretations that will have to be grappled with by all subsequent historians of the subject.
            Unfortunately, flaws in presentation may distract some readers from the solid values of the book.
                    Hattaway and Jones too often are not content merely to present analyses; they go out of their way to
                    chide other historians for alleged shortcomings. Even while dedicating the book to T. Harry Williams
                    and somewhat unctiously proclaiming their respect for him in the introduction, the authors
                    gratuitously belabor the differences between their interpretations and his, proclaiming, with an
                    immodesty that proves characteristic of their style, that "as Marx felt he had found Hegel
                    standing on his head and turned him rightside up, we think we have done the same for
                    Williams" (p. x). With similar gratuitousness, they deviate from their narrative to reprove
                    Douglas Southall Freeman for using Civil War rather than modern staff terminology. In typical
                    passages they castigate other historians for alleged errors not of fact but of opinion and
                    interpretation (see, for example, pp. 108, 169). Since there can be no clearcut right or wrong
                    verdict in such instances, Hattaway and Jones themselves apparently are unable to distinguish
                    between fact and opinion.
            In addition to making a number of grammatical errors throughout the volume, Hattaway and Jones are
                    also not as thoroughly in command of the relevant historical literature as their pretensions might
                    imply. They would not claim that in 1862 "
                        Lincoln
                     himself still remained indifferent toward total abolition and eventual
                    integration" (p. 270) if they had carefully read La Wanda Cox's 
                  
                            Lincoln
                         and Black Freedom (1981), or indeed a multitude of recent works. When they
                    write that successful reconstruction of southern states early reconquered by the Union
                    "would have the added advantage of supplying political supporters for the 
                        Lincoln
                     administration's policies against their radical opponents" (p. 430),
                    they imply a sharp division between 
                        Lincoln
                     and the radicals, thereby suggesting that far from turning T. Harry Williams rightside
                    up they have not read anything about 
                        Lincoln
                     and the radicals more recent than Williams's early work.
            Such limitations in dealing with any topics outside narrow military history cannot but weaken even
                    Hattaway's and Jones's analyses of strategy. Nevertheless, their contributions to
                    the strategic as well as operational and tactical history of the war do indeed make their work a
                    major study. The authors build their discussions of strategy upon an unexcelled account of American
                    military education before the Civil War in order to explain the preconceptions with which the
                    generals began. They explain much more adequately than any previous historians the specific ways  in which the precepts of Antoine Henri Jomini shaped the conduct
                    of the Civil War. They surpass previous historians in their perceptions of the influence of
                    logistics on Civil War strategy; particularly they make clear that in the western theater the
                    Union's inability to go on making consistent use of river lines of communications after 
                        Shiloh
                     had a crippling effect on further offensives. In detailing the logistical realities,
                    they go far to rehabilitate Henry W. Halleck as a general with an especially acute grasp of those
                    realities. They show that Halleck was also among the first Civil War commanders to recognize that a
                    strategy of annihilating enemy armies in the classic, Napoleonic fashion would no longer work
                    because the rifled firepower and the maneuverability of Civil War armies as well as their size made
                    them almost impossible to destroy within any politically acceptable time limits and with an
                    acceptable casualty rate on one's own side.
            The authors conclude that because of the failure of a classical strategy of annihilation, Grant,
                    Halleck, and William T. Sherman devised a war-winning "strategy of exhaustion,"
                    which defeated the Confederacy by stripping it of the economic ability to supply its armies,
                    especially through Sherman's marches and through destructive cavalry raids. While this
                    reviewer will not emulate the authors' style by stating categorically that their conception
                    of the decisive effects of a strategy of exhaustion is in error, nevertheless their judgment must be
                    considered dubious. The fact remains that the destruction of southern resources essential to
                    carrying out Hattaway's and Jones's version of a strategy of exhaustion could not
                    begin to be achieved on a scale adequate to Union purposes until the Confederate armies had already
                    been substantially destroyed, whatever the costs of a strategy of annihilation.
            The authors' strategic analysis, however, cannot be quickly dismissed. All Civil War
                    students should read the book and ponder its arguments for themselves.
            
               Temple University, 
                            Philadelphia
                        
                Russell F. Weigley
         
         
            
               Black Liberation in 
                            Kentucky
                        : Emancipation and Freedom, 1862–1884. By Victor B. Howard. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1983. Pp. viii, 222. Notes, sources, index. $23.00.)
            Victor B. Howard states that it is his intention to write an "integrated" history
                    that incorporates the previously neglected experience of blacks into the whole of 
                        Kentucky
                    's history, and he has achieved this objective admirably. The book is an
                    exemplary  study of the day-to-day impact of the Civil War on the
                    people and institutions of one state.
            Kentucky was distinctive, if not unique, in a number of respects. It was a border slave state which
                    did not secede and which became a battleground between Union and Confederate forces. Only in
                    Virginia and 
                        Georgia
                     was there a larger number of slaveholders. Kentucky did not emancipate its slaves by
                    state action, and in a gesture of frustration it refused to ratify the Thirteenth Amendment,
                    although by that time slavery was in reality dead.
            The book is a good study of what the war did to whites and white attitudes as well as to blacks. It
                    shows the complexity and diversity of the slave issue in relation to the preservation of the Union.
                    A minority of Kentuckians, while loyal to the Union, opposed emancipation. The Emancipation
                    Proclamation shook the faith of some of the most determined Union men, but a minority favored
                    emancipation from the beginning.
            The best parts of the book are those which deal with the erosion of slavery. Due to the initiative of
                    blacks themselves slavery began to collapse as soon as the war started. Slaves flocked to the Union
                    camps and to the states north of the Ohio River. The war soon converted Union
                    soldiers to abolition as a practical, not a philosophical, matter, and they openly flouted rules
                    that required them to return slaves to loyal masters. Once enrollment of blacks into military
                    service began, large numbers of slaves sought to enroll (thereby, of course, reducing draft calls
                    upon whites). Other measures of the Union government, including the repeal of the Fugitive Slave
                    Law, combined with black initiatives to hasten the demise of slavery in the state which, by the end
                    of 1864, was "the only significant outpost of legal slavery in the nation" (p.
                    72). Vigorous efforts by the Union government to recruit slaves for military service further
                    weakened the institution.
            Important, too, was the act of Congress, late in the war, freeing families of black soldiers. The
                    military issued orders to recognize the legality of slave marriages. Concern for their families had
                    prevented some slaves from volunteering. "The desire for secure family life was
                    unquestionably the first priority of the prospective black soldier" (p. 11). A chapter on
                    "Families in Transition" illuminates the importance of the family to blacks and
                    the importance of blood relationships.
            Meanwhile large numbers of other slaves had simply left their masters and moved to towns or across
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    . Slaves had begun to demand wages as early as 1862. The entire labor system in parts of
                    the state where slavery was important was disrupted. After the war a contract system developed
                    which, however, was often disadvantageous to the freedmen.
            
            The merit of this book is that it is based on massive and painstaking research, done over a long
                    period of time, in primary local sources—newspapers, personal letters of soldiers,
                    diaries—as well as government documents.
            
               
                  
                            Butler
                         University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Emma Lou Thornbrough
         
         
            
               Kentucky Profiles: Biographical Essays in Honor of Holman 
                            Hamilton
                        . Edited by James C. Klotter and Peter J. Sehlinger. (
                        Frankfort
                    : Kentucky Historical Society, 1982. Pp. x, 204. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical
                    essays, index. $19.95.)
            
               Kentucky Profiles is a memorial volume in honor of Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    . It contains limited biographical material about 
                        Hamilton
                    , a bibliography of his varied and substantial writings, a partial list of his numerous
                    addresses, and several essays, by former students, concerning topics related to the history of 
                        Kentucky
                    . Son of a 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana, doctor, of Scotch-Irish immigrant ancestry from the pioneer era, during the
                    1930s and 1940s Holman 
                        Hamilton
                     largely divided his time between reporting and editorial writing on the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    Journal-Gazette and preparing a biographical study of Zachary Taylor. He served
                    three years in World War II, rising to the rank of major.
            
               
                        Hamilton
                    's interest in history was considerably influenced by the writings of Claude G.
                    Bowers, his precedessor as editorial writer for the Journal-Gazette. This interest
                    was enhanced and fostered by the growing local collection of historical books and other items about
                    Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , sustained by the 
                        Lincoln
                     National Life Foundation, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . This reviewer, while a member of the Indiana University Extension Center at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , first met Holman 
                        Hamilton
                     when he was about to publish his Zachary Taylor: Soldier of the
                    Republic, which appeared in 1941. This volume won 
                        Hamilton
                     immediate recognition as an historian of promise. The second volume, aided by a
                    Guggenheim Fellowship in 1946, appeared in 1951, winning substantial additional acclaim for its
                    author, who had never had a graduate course in history. In that year 
                        Hamilton
                    , then forty-one, with his wife and daughter, crossed his professional Rubicon and began
                    graduate study at the University of 
                  Kentucky, Lexington
               . Three years later he received his doctorate
                    and was appropriately named to the history faculty of the university, which position he maintained
                    until his retirement in 1975. He died five years later.
            Holman 
                        Hamilton
                     was a highly motivated and an extremely versatile individual. He was a journalist,
                    soldier, historian, professor, academic counselor, public lecturer, civic-minded citizen,  friend, and gentleman. How he accomplished so much in so many areas,
                    seemingly always having generous time for students, friends, and others, amazed those who knew him
                    well. Ambitious for excellence, he worked himself harder than he worked his students. He especially
                    excelled in his teaching, and he was unusually adept in public addresses having both substance and
                    relevance. His mimicry of F#2 D. Roosevelt, Al Smith, Claude G. Bowers, and others earned Holman
                    popularity, especially among students. 
                        Hamilton
                    's students enthusiastically pursued and imitated his principles and practices;
                    hence, the essays in this volume are noted for style, organization, and readability. They also
                    illustrate the mentor's conviction that the proper writing of national history requires
                    much and deep plowing of state and local history.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               The Minister's Wife: Her Role in Nineteenth-Century American
                    Evangelicalism. By Leonard I. Sweet. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Temple University Press, 1983. Pp. viii, 327. Notes, index. $29.95.)
            Leonard I. Sweet's book is an important contribution both to women's studies and to
                    the history of nineteenth-century evangelical Protestantism. Noting that women occupied a central
                    place in American Protestant churches of the nineteenth century and that religion in turn was
                    intimately intertwined with both the public and private roles of women in that same era, Sweet has
                    focused these broad concerns by studying the historical evolution of the minister's wife, a
                    figure who has long eluded careful examination by professional historians.
            Sweet constructs a threefold typology which he argues shaped the roles of ministers' wives
                    throughout the nineteenth century. In rough chronological order these nineteenth-century models
                    were: the Sacrificer, who "clasped her hands in pious resignation, asked little of her
                    husband … and ‘hindered him not in his work’"; the
                    Assistant, who "became her husband's right arm, sharing many pastoral
                    responsibilities and functioning as an extension of his ministry"; and the Partner, who
                    "ministered with both her hands, developed a ministry alongside her husband, and often
                    served as the pastor's pastor" (p. 3). This thesis when fully fleshed out clearly
                    becomes an argument that as the century progressed evangelicalism often served as a liberating force
                    for women. Sweet arranges his interpretive models yet more specifically around the figures of three
                    women—Peggy Dow, wife of the famed itinerant Lorenzo Dow, and the first two wives of
                    Charles Finney, Lydia  and Elizabeth. The vivid contrasts between
                    Peggy Dow and Elizabeth Finney make clear an emerging feminist consciousness within evangelicalism.
                    Sweet has taken definite sides in the now-familiar debate about the role of religion in shaping (or
                    negating) early feminism in this country; his argument is detailed, wide-ranging, and persuasive. He
                    is also persuasive in his somewhat more speculative explanations for the decline of the
                    "Partner" image in the last third of the nineteenth century.
            A few nagging doubts persist about his study. An opening chapter, describing Protestant
                    ministers' wives from the sixteenth through the eighteenth century, is too brief and
                    hurried a survey. Typology is a dangerous device to be used in historical analysis. It may produce
                    an overly schematic interpretive structure that blurs the complexity of historical reality. Sweet
                    takes this possibility into account early on (pp. 4–5), but the difficulties implicit in
                    his analysis are never entirely overcome. The author has mined very effectively the magnificent
                    archival collection at Oberlin College for some of his most illuminating insights, but one sometimes
                    wonders how "representative" the women of Oberlin, a widely recognized center of
                    theological and social radicalism, were for many mainstream evangelicals during the antebellum era.
            In conclusion, however, this extremely well-written and thorough monograph remains a stimulating
                    analysis of women within evangelical Protestantism. For anyone interested in the history of women in
                    nineteenth-century America this is a key book to read and savor.
            
               University of 
                            Rhode Island
                        , Kingston James Findlay
         
         
            
               Down & Out in the Great Depression: Letters from the "Forgotten
                    Man." Edited by Robert S. McElvaine. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1983. Pp. xvii, 251. Illustrations, notes, sources of letters, index.
                    Clothbound, $23.00; paperbound, $8.95.)
            In line with his premise that "the social history of a people in a given historical period
                    must begin with the testimony of the people themselves," Robert S. McElvaine has reproduced
                    in this volume 173 letters from the "forgotten men, women, and children of the
                    1930s" (p. [xi]). The sources from which this material is drawn are the files of the
                    President's Emergency Committee on Employment, the President's Organization for
                    Unemployment Relief, the Federal Emergency Relief Administration, and the Civil Works
                    Administration, plus the Eleanor Roosevelt, Robert F. Wagner, and 
                        Norman
                     Thomas papers. The editor read approximately 
                    fifteen thousand letters picked at random, selecting for publication those which were representative
                    of the "themes that emerged from the larger body of letters examined" (p. 8).
            The volume is organized around those themes. Part I consists of letters showing reactions to Herbert
                    Hoover and the economic breakdown. Part II aims to illustrate "Conditions of Life in the
                    Thirties" with subsections devoted to the economically distressed middle class, the rural
                    poor, blacks, the elderly, and two-to-thirteen-year-old youngsters. Part III is headed
                    "Reactions to the Depression" and includes a selection of letters revealing the
                    wide gamut of attitudes toward relief followed by examples of conservative and right-wing views,
                    desperation, cynicism, and rebelliousness. The concluding section presents views of FDR: on the one
                    side, the skeptical; on the other, the hero-worshipful. In his over-all
                    "Introduction" and in prefatory remarks to each set of letters, McElvaine does not
                    simply provide historical context but also underlines what he regards as the more important motifs
                    revealed.
            Unfortunately, this reviewer must question what purpose this volume serves. No doubt many instructors
                    will find the paperbound edition a useful way of introducing their students to the flavor of the
                    period, and the publisher's promotional activities appear designed to appeal to 1930s
                    nostalgia buffs. But the extent to which this collection expands substantive understanding of the
                    time is doubtful. McElvaine argues that the letters provide a more direct and truer picture of the
                    feelings of the people than do interviews made long afterward (e.g., Stud Terkel's Hard Times [1970]); the reports of FERA and WPA investigators (e.g., Richard
                    Lowitt and Maurine Beasley, One Third of a Nation: Lorena Hickok's Reports on
                        the Great Depression [1981]); and even the interviews undertaken in the late 1930s by the
                    Federal Writers' Project (e.g., Tom E. Terrill and Jerrold Hirsch, Such As
                    Us [1978], and Ann Banks, First Person America [1980]). He admits, however,
                    that his selection constitutes no scientific sample. Letter writers were by definition people who
                    felt strongly. Although probably more Americans felt strongly in the 1930s than at any other time in
                    the country's history, the authors of these letters must still be regarded as in a sense
                    atypical. Most importantly, McElvaine fails to explain what principle he followed in allocating
                    space. In other words, does the number of letters exemplifying a given attitude—say, for
                    example, "desperate," "cynical," or
                    "rebellious"—accurately reflect the distribution of that outlook among
                    even the letters examined, much less the population at large?
            
               University of 
                     Nebraska,
                                Lincoln
                  
                John Braeman
         
         
         
            
               Boss Kettering. By Stuart W. Leslie. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1983. Pp. xii, 382. Illustrations, notes, index. $19.95.)
            Charles F. Kettering, inventor and organizer of industrial research, had one of the most significant
                    and rewarding careers of any American engineer. As Stuart W. Leslie notes, Kettering
                    "bridged the single most important development in twentieth-century technology, the
                    transition from independent invention to scientifically oriented and corporately harnessed research
                    and development" (p. 340). More important than his inventions, many though they were, was
                    his "ability to sell research to an often skeptical business world" (p. 340).
            Born on a central Ohio farm in 1876, Kettering showed an early interest in mechanical and electrical
                    devices. Although he liked to pose as an untutored experimenter, he gained professional engineering
                    training at Ohio State University. A position at National Cash Register resulted in key improvements
                    in both electric and mechanical machines. He and a partner then struck out on their own, forming
                    DELCO (
                        Dayton
                     Engineering Laboratories) to develop an improved automotive ignition. The automotive
                    self-starter, Kettering's most famous invention, followed in 1911, and with it Kettering
                    revolutionized automotive electrical systems and greatly enhanced the appeal and utility of the car.
                    In 1916 DELCO was sold to William C. Durant, and by 1920 General Motors had acquired additional
                    Kettering properties, making him one of GM's largest shareholders, as well as the
                    engineer's services. Telling Alfred P. Sloan that he would work for GM if "I would
                    never be held accountable for the money I spent" (p. 96), Kettering joined the corporation
                    as a vice-president, board member, and general manager of a new division, the General Motors
                    Research Corporation. There he remained until his retirement in 1947.
            At GM Kettering pursued his interests virtually untrammeled, although, as he said, "the man
                    responsible for the laboratory must never lose sight of the fact that research work done with
                    corporate funds must justify itself economically" (p. 208). A wide-ranging curiosity
                    carried him in many directions. An interest in high-compression engines led to the development of
                    tetraethyl lead gasolines. The diesel engine was redesigned for railroads where it replaced steam
                    locomotives. Not all his efforts were successful. A tractor with "reins control,"
                    presumably to help the farmer adapt to internal combustion power, failed, as did a massive, costly
                    effort to perfect an air-cooled automotive engine.
            In this well-researched, prize-winning book, Leslie deals with Kettering fairly, pointing out his
                    failings and limitations as well  as his many triumphs. Kettering
                    sometimes underestimated the importance of academic expertise, never fully grasped the relationships
                    between theory and empirical research, and contributed little to General Motors in nontechnical
                    areas. His enduring monument was the belief that product improvement through applied science, under
                    corporate auspices, was indispensable.
            
               Oakland University, 
                            Rochester
                        , Mich. John Barnard
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Indiana Years, 1903–1941. By Walter B. Hendrickson. Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. 26, No. 3. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1983. Pp. vii, 260. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    Paperbound, $4.00.) Walter B. Hendrickson's account of his growing up and young
                    adulthood in 
                        Indianapolis
                     is both delightful and informative. He has a superb memory and a sharp eye for telling
                    detail, and he has a professional historian's instinct to set the specific event or process
                    in broader context. One of the most significant events in Hendrickson's life and in the
                    autobiography is the death of his father, which occurred before the time of pensions and social
                    security. Hendrickson, aged eleven, and his brother and mother fell quickly from comfort and
                    security to hard and anxious times. Hendrickson's contribution to the family's
                    income became essential, a contribution he made with a very wide variety of after-school and weekend
                    jobs. One of the most useful features of the account is Hendrickson's very detailed
                    description of his part-time jobs, including working in a grocery store, soda fountain, and shoe
                    store. He also provides detailed descriptions of such everyday life events of the early twentieth
                    century as the working of a coal-burning furnace, sledding, family vacations, classes at Shortridge
                    High School, and Boy Scout activities. And there are good accounts of student life at 
                        Butler
                    , Purdue, and Indiana University, all of which Hendrickson attended. The book ends with
                    Hendrickson attaining his Ph.D. degree in history from 
                        Harvard
                     and taking up a teaching post in 
                        Illinois
                    . His retirement in 1968 gave him the opportunity to finish constructing this nostalgic,
                    entertaining, and instructive window into growing up in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Stardust Road. By Hoagy Carmichael. (1946; reprinted, 
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1983. Pp. vii, 156. Illustrations.  Paperbound, $6.95.) This volume, first published in 1946, is
                    an autobiograhical account of Hoagy Carmichael's early life in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, and his years at Indiana University. It presents a fond, engaging
                    reminiscence of the city and the university during the 1920s and an inside account of jazz in those
                    years, with particular attention devoted to Carmichael's relationships with Bix Beiderbecke
                    and Bill Moenkhaus. In a brief foreword Carmichael's son remembers his father and what it
                    was like to live with him. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Correspondence of James K. Polk. Volume VI, 1842–1843.
                    Edited by Wayne Cutler; associate editor, Carese M. Parker. (
                        Nashville
                    : Vanderbilt University Press, 1983. Pp. xxxvi, 726. End maps, frontispiece, notes,
                    index. $30.00.) This volume, covering the two years following James K. Polk's
                    unsuccessful 1841 gubernatorial bid, is the first produced under the editorship of Wayne Cutler.
                    During the period treated here, Young Hickory, the "principal executor of Andrew 
                        Jackson
                    's political legacy to 
                        Tennessee
                    " (p. ix), attempted to insure the future of the party of 
                        Jackson
                    . This was, thus, a time of political machination, with Polk holding and losing the
                    reins of power in the Tennessee Democratic party, losing another gubernatorial election, and laying
                    the groundwork for an attempt to win the 1844 Democratic vice-presidential nomination. Also included
                    in the volume—according to the preface, because of fears that funding problems might
                    cause the series to be suspended—is a retrospective calendar of published and unpublished
                    Polk letters written between 1816 and the end of 1843. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Image of War, 1861–1865. Volume II, The Guns of
                        '62. Edited by William C. Davis, for the National Historical Society. (
                        Garden City
                    , N.Y.: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1982. Pp. 460. End map, illustrations, index.
                    $35.00.)
            
               The Image of War, 1861–1865. Volume III, The Embattled
                        Confederacy. Edited by William C. Davis, for the National Historical Society. (
                        Garden City
                    , N.Y.: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1982. Pp. 464. End map, illustrations, index.
                    $39.95.)
            
               The Image of War, 1861–1865. Volume IV, Fighting for
                    Time. Edited by William C. Davis, for the National Historical Society. (
                        Garden City
                    , N.Y.: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1983. Pp. 464. End map, illustrations, index.
                    $39.95.)
            
               The Image of War, 1861–1865. Volume V, The South
                    Besieged. Edited by William C. Davis, for the National Historical Society.  (
                        Garden City
                    , N.Y.: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1983. Pp. 461. End map, illustrations, index.
                    $39.95.)
            In these, the second through fifth installments of his six-volume illustrated history of the Civil
                    War, editor William C. Davis adheres to the organization with which he started the series in Shadows of the Storm (1981). In each volume the photographs are arranged in
                    several topical sections, with each section bearing an introduction by a historian with an
                    appropriate area of expertise. Some of the sections cover relatively broad subjects, as with those
                    on "The South at War" (vol. III) and "The Forgotten War: The
                    West" (vol. V); others have a narrower focus, as in "The Second Bull Run"
                    (vol. II) and "The Siege of 
                        Charleston
                    " (vol. IV). Although readers with a strong interest in the Civil War will
                    certainly find some photographs they have seen before, the sheer number of illustrations included
                    (over 650 in each volume) means that even the most dedicated Civil War scholar should see much that
                    is new and of interest here. Those with a more general familiarity with the war will find that the
                    combination of striking photographs and interpretive essays provides a feel for its texture that
                    even the best narrative would be hard-pressed to equal. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Civil War Almanac. Edited by John S. Bowman. (
                        New York
                    : Facts on File, Inc., 1982. Pp. 400. Illustrations, maps, index. $19.95.)
                    Billed as "the most comprehensive single-volume reference work on the War Between the
                    States ever published," this volume provides a daily chronology of the important events of
                    the Civil War. Following the chronological section, there are two shorter sections, one on weapons
                    and equipment used during the conflict and one which provides biographies of a number of people who
                    played significant roles in it. A detailed index provides quick access to information in all three
                    sections. In a brief introduction Henry Steele Commager presents his thoughts on possible reasons
                    for Americans' continuing interest in the Civil War. Gary L. Bailey, Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Pamphlets, and Dissertations in Indiana History
            
               Editor's Note. This list of articles, pamphlets, and dissertations
                    published in 1981–1983 is intended as a bibliographic contribution to Indiana's
                    history. We hope to present such a list in each March issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. We recognize that the list is neither complete nor systematic in coverage, and we
                    hope that readers will help us by sending items for possible inclusion. We are especially interested
                    in listing publications that make some contribution to understanding Indiana's past but are
                    not normally reviewed in the IMH. Generally, we will not list newspaper articles or accounts of
                    local historical society activities (which are reported in the Indiana History
                    Bulletin), but printed pamphlets as well as journal articles may be listed. All such items for
                    the March, 1985, issue must be received by December 1, 1984. Many people have contributed to the
                    present list, but major responsibility has rested with Robert G. Barrows of the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau and Gary L. Bailey and Amy C. Schutt of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Adler, Elizabeth Mosby, "Folk Antiques and Modern American Culture: The Indiana Pie
                        Safe" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1982).
               Arnold, Eleanor, ed., Feeding Our Families (1983). [First volume in a series
                        "Memories of Hoosier Homemakers," an oral history project of the Indiana
                        Extension Homemakers Association.]
               Atack, Jeremy, and Fred Bateman, "The Development of Industrial Steam Power in the
                        Midwest with Special Reference to Indiana," Old Northwest, VIII
                        (Winter, 1982–1983).
               Baker, Marie, "Seeking the Source of the [State] Seal," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sunday Star Magazine, April 17, 1983.
               Baudendistel, Paul, "Along the Whitewater Canal," Indiana
                            Waterways, I (February, 1982).
               Baudendistel, Paul, "Aqueduct Hunting in Indiana," Indiana
                            Waterways, I (June, 1982).
               Boley, Edwin J., The First Documented History of 
                                Jackson County
                            , Indiana, 1816–1976 (
                            Seymour
                        , Ind.: Privately printed, 1980).
               Bronner, Simon Josef, "Chain Carvers in Southern Indiana: A Behavioristic Study in
                        Material Culture" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1981).
               Bronner, Simon J., "The Durlauf Family: Three Generations of Stonecarvers in Southern
                        Indiana [
                            Dubois County
                        , 1858–1962]," Pioneer America, XIII (1981).
               
               
                  
                            Brown
                        , Jeffrey Paul, "Timothy Pickering and the Northwest Territory,"
                            Northwest Ohio Quarterly, LIII (Fall, 1981).
               Burke, Carol, ed., Plain Talk (West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind.: Purdue University Press, 1983) [Collection of reminiscences and stories,
                        principally from residents of 
                     Benton, Jasper
                  , and White counties.]
               Bushman, Claudia, "The Wilson Family in Delaware and [
                            Richmond
                        ,] Indiana," Delaware History, XX (Spring-Summer, 1982).
               Calhoun, Charles W., "Morality and Spite: Walter Q. Gresham and U.S. Relations with 
                            Hawaii
                        ," Pacific Historical Review, LII (August, 1983).
               Carr, Robert J., Grandma Had Class (
                            Champaign
                        , Ill.: Privately printed, 1983). [Reminiscence of life in Benton and Warren
                        counties, 1910s and 1920s.]
               Carver, Bernice, "At Last, the Story of Our Courthouses, Frame, Brick,
                        Stone," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXI (October, 1983).
               Cayton, Andrew Robert Lee, "‘The Best of All Possible Worlds’:
                        From Independence to Interdependence in the Settlement of the Ohio Country,
                        1780–1825" (Ph.D. dissertation, 
                            Brown
                         University, 1981).
               Cline, Pat, "[Mahlon D.] Manson …," Montgomery
                            Magazine, VII (October, November, 1982).
               Cohen, Ronald D., "World War II and the Travail of Progressive Schooling: Gary,
                        Indiana, 1940–1946," Ronald K. Goodenow and Diane Ravitch, eds., Schools in Cities: Consensus and Conflict in American Educational History (
                            New York
                        , 1983).
               Collins, Bob, "The Unofficial History of the Indiana Pacers," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sunday Star Magazine, October 16, 1983.
               "Cumulative Index to Guide Entries Published by the Archives Division, [Indiana]
                        Commission on Public Records," Indiana History Bulletin, [LX]
                        (August, 1983).
               Custer, Truth M., "Sugar Creek Township Settled in 1828," Montgomery Magazine, VIII (September, 1983). [Reprint of a 1924 essay on the history
                        of this 
                            Montgomery County
                         township.]
               Davis, Charlie, That Band from Indiana (
                            Oswego
                        , N.Y.: Mathom Publishing Company, 1982).
               Dittlinger, Esther, "Blacks in 
                            Madison County
                        , Indiana," Journal of the Afro-American Historical and
                            Genealogical Society, III (1982).
               Doherty, William J., "
                            Indianapolis
                         in the 1870s: Hard Times in the Gilded Age" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana
                        University, 1981).
               
               Dorrel, Ruth, comp., Pioneer Ancestors of Members of the Society of Indiana
                            Pioneers (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 1983).
               Drudge, Dick, "Adolph Merley American Legion Post # 277, 
                            Akron
                        ," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, No. 51 (Spring, 1983).
               Dwyer, Ellen, "Mental Health Care in Early Twentieth Century Indiana and the Limits
                        of Reform," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, IX (March, 1983).
               Edmunds, R. David, "Tecumseh, the Shawnee Prophet, and American History: A
                        Reassessment," Western Historical Quarterly, XIV (July, 1983).
               Fees, Paul Rodger, "New 
                            England
                        's Image of the Old Northwest and Its Incorporation of Western Cultural
                        Symbols, 1783–1820" (Ph.D. dissertation, 
                            Brown
                         University, 1982).
               Felton, Jacob, "A Frontiersman's Memoirs: Jacob Felton's Sketch of
                        His Early Life," Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography, CVI
                        (1982). [Memoirs, from ca. 1890, in which the author recalls his family's settlement in
                        Ohio and Indiana.]
               Fickle, James E., "The ‘People’ Versus
                        ‘Progress’ in the Old Northwest: Local Opposition to the Construction of
                        the 
                            Wabash
                         & 
                            Erie
                         Canal," Old Northwest, VIII (Winter,
                        1982–1983).
               Fort, Benjamin Barrett, "The Monger School," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, No. 49 (Fall, 1982).
               "
                            Fort Wayne
                         Postcards," Old Fort News, XLV (No. 1, 1982), XLVI (No.
                        1, 1983). [Postcard views of 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , principally early twentieth century.]
               Furlong, Patrick J., The Hoosier Town at Work: Nappanee Yesterday and Today
                        (Nappanee, Ind.: Nappanee Public Library, 1983).
               Furlong, Patrick J., "To Move a River: Pinhook Park [in 
                            South Bend
                        ] & the WPA," Old Courthouse News, XVII (Spring,
                        1983).
               Gaglione, Rodger Thomas, "Education in Utopia: Curriculum Theory and Design in the 
                            New Harmony
                         Communal Settlement" (Ed.D. dissertation, Rutgers University, 1982).
               Gambaiani, Larry James, "The History of Teacher Collective Bargaining Legislation in
                        Indiana—1965–1980" (Ed.D. dissertation, Indiana University,
                        1982).
               Geelhoed, E. Bruce, Bringing Wall Street to Main Street: The Story of K. J. Brown
                            and Company, Inc., 1931–1981 (
                            Muncie
                        , Ind.: Ball State University Business History Series, No. 1, 1981). [History of a
                        regional brokerage firm founded and head-quartered in 
                            Muncie
                        .]
               
               Geib, George W., "On to 
                            Mexico
                        : Recruiting the Indiana Regiments for the Mexican War," Indiana Military History Journal, VIII (October, 1983).
               Gianakos, Perry E., "George Ade's Critique of Benevolent
                        Assimilation," Diplomatic History, VII (Summer, 1983).
               Giffin, William W., "The Political Realignment of Black Voters in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1924," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX (June, 1983).
               Greer, Odessa, "Reiter School [in 
                            Rochester
                         Township], 1924–1960," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, No. 47 (Spring, 1982).
               Grimaldi, Anthony Eugene, "The Indiana Soldiers' and Sailors'
                        Monument and Its Dedication: A Study of a Nineteenth Century American Monument and Its Allied
                        Arts of Pageantry" (Ph.D. dissertation, Ohio University, 1982).
               Grimaldi, Anthony, "The Role of Indiana Veterans in the Erection of the Indiana
                        Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument," Indiana Military
                            History Journal, VIII (January, 1983).
               Hall, M#2 K., "A Time for War: The Church of God's Response to 
                            Vietnam
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX (December, 1983).
               Hardin, Becky, ed., Recollections of Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                             Magee (1834–1915) (
                            Williamsport
                        , Ind.: 
                            Warren County
                         Historical Society, 1983).
               Harris, Patricia A. Gruse, Great Lakes' First Submarine—L.D.
                            Phillips' "Fool Killer" (
                            Michigan City
                        , Ind., 1982).
               Harvey, Charles E., "Robert S. Lynd, John D. Rockefeller, Jr., and 
                     
                                Middletown
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX (December, 1983).
               Harvey, Robert S., ed., These Fleeting Years: Wabash College,
                            1832–1982, a Documentary History (
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Ind., 1982).
               Hasse, John E., "The Creation and Dissemination of 
                            Indianapolis
                         Ragtime, 1897–1930" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University,
                        1982).
               Hendrie, Hugh C., "Press Coverage of Central State Hospital: Alarms and
                        Excursions," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, IX (March, 1983).
               "The Heritage: 
                            Germany
                         and the Tri-State," supplement to the 
                            Evansville
                        
                        Courier, June 28, 1983. [Discussion of the past and present of 
                            German
                         heritage in the 
                            Evansville
                         vicinity.]
               Hess, Earl J., "Battle in the Brush: [Jefferson C.] Davis' Division at Pea
                        Ridge, 7 March 1862," Indiana Military History Journal, VIII (May,
                        1983).
               
               Hine, Darlene Clark, "The Call That Never Came: Black Women Nurses and World War I,
                        an Historical Note," Indiana Military History Journal, VIII (January,
                        1983).
               Hipskind, Myron Maxwell, "A Doctor's Fifty Year Perspective," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, IX (September, 1983). [Prepared for the
                        fiftieth anniversary reunion of the Class of 1933, Indiana University School of Medicine.]
               
                  A History of the Clayton United Presbyterian Church, Clayton, Indiana,
                            1833–1983 (n.p., [1983]).
               Hite, Jay C., "Removal of the Potawatomi, 1838: A Christian Viewpoint," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, No. 49 (Fall, 1982).
               Holliday, 
                            Murray
                        , A History of the Society of Indiana Pioneers,
                        1916–1980 (
                            Greenfield
                        , Ind., [1983]).
               Huston, J. Mack, "The Vonneguts and Early Retailing in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," 
                            Marion County
                        /
                            Indianapolis
                         Historical Society Circular, IV (March/April, 1983).
               "
                            Indianapolis
                         Museum of Art, 1883–1983," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sunday Star Magazine, October 9, 1983.
               
                  Jay County, Indiana (
                            Portland
                        , Ind.: Jay County Historical Society, 1982).
               Jones, Rhett S., "The Story of Kappa Alpha Psi and Indiana Black History: A Research
                        Note," Black History News and Notes, No. 12 (February, 1983).
               Kaufman, 
                            Murray
                        , "The Image of Eugene V. Debs in the American Popular Mind:
                        1894–1926" (D.A. dissertation, Carnegie-Mellon University, 1981).
               Kinnear, Herb, "Murals Depict History of 
                            Fountain County
                        ," Hoosier Farmer, LXVIII (May, 1983).
               Kirby, Ielda (Crabb), "Kewanna Telephone Company," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, No. 51 (Spring, 1983).
               Kirby, J. Randolph, "
                            Fort Wayne
                         Common School Crusaders: The Struggle for Free Schooling in 1858," Old Fort News, XLVI (No. 2, 1983).
               Kontra, Miklos, and Gregory L. Nehler, "Language Usage: An Interview with a Hungarian
                        American [in 
                            South Bend
                        ]," Hungarian Studies Review, VIII (1981).
               Kronewitter, Ron, "The Towns That Might Have Been," Old
                            Courthouse News, XVI (Winter, 1982). [Article on several 
                            St. Joseph County
                         towns which have been abandoned or which were planned but never built.]
               Kulii, Elon Ali, "A Look at Hoodoo in Three Urban Areas of Indiana: Folklore and
                        Change" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1982).
               
               LaForte, Robert S. and Richard Himmel, eds., "‘
                            Middletown
                         Looks at the Lynds’: A Contemporary Critique by the Reverend Dr. Hillyer
                        H. Straton of 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana, 1937," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX
                        (September, 1983).
               Lamoree, Charles R., "
                            Akron
                        's Hoover House [Hotel]—Last of Its Kind," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, No. 51 (Spring, 1983).
               Lee, Guy, "[Clark] Township Named After Daniel Clark," Montgomery Magazine, VIII (March, 1983). [Reprint of a 1924 essay on the history of
                        this 
                            Montgomery County
                         township.]
               Lively, Carrie E., "Reminiscences of a State Mental Hospital Attendant [ca.
                        1900]," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, IX (March, 1983).
               McDonell, Katherine Mandusic, "The 
                            Indianapolis City
                         Hospital, 1833–1866," Indiana Medical History
                            Quarterly, IX (June, 1983).
               McKinney, Jim, "Chapel Surviving in the Meadow," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sunday Star Magazine, April 3, 1983. [Chapel at Camp Atterbury constructed
                        by 
                            German
                         and Italian prisoners of war.]
               Mahon, John K., "Militia in the Black Hawk War, 1831–1832," Indiana Military History Journal, VIII (May, 1983).
               Manhart, George B., "The Indiana Central Medical College,
                        1849–1852," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, VIII
                        (December, 1982). [Reprinted from the Indiana Magazine of History, LVI (June,
                        1960).]
               "Marking 3 Centuries of Germans [in America, with a Focus on 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sunday Star Magazine, September 4, 1983.
               Mayberry, 
                            Virginia
                        , "Draftee's Wife: A Memoir of World War II," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX (December, 1983).
               Meek, Ben W., "Surveys for the 
                            Michigan
                        -
                            Erie
                         Canal," Indiana Waterways, II (April, 1983).
               Meek, Thomas, "Four Types of Locks Used on the 
                            Wabash
                         & 
                            Erie
                         Canal," Indiana Waterways, I (February, 1982).
               Meek, T[homas], "Jesse Lynch Williams, [Wabash and 
                            Erie
                        ] Canal Engineer, 1807–1886," Indiana
                        Waterways, I (August, 1982).
               Meredith, Joseph C., "Solsberry, Indiana, and the Coming of the Railroad,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX (September, 1983).
               Morgan, Iwan, "Factional Conflict in Indiana Politics during the Later New Deal
                        Years, 1936–1940," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX
                        (March, 1983).
               Mullin, Marsha, "The Muessel Brewery [in 
                            South Bend
                        ]: Good Times and Bad," Old Courthouse News, XVII
                        (Spring, 1983).
               
               Niehaus, Juliet Anne, "Ethnic Formation and Transformation: The 
                            German
                        -Catholics of 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana, 1838–1979" (Ph.D. dissertation, New School for Social
                        Research, 
                            New York
                        , 1981).
               Noble, Dennis L., "The U.S. Life Saving Service in Indiana: A Predecessor of the U.S.
                        Coast Guard," Indiana Military History Journal, VIII (October, 1983).
               Nugent, Helen Jean M., "Louis Kiel and Oliver P. Morton: The Oddest Couple,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX (March, 1983).
               Ohman, Marian, "Diffusion of Foursquare Courthouses to the Midwest,
                        1785–1885," Geographical Review, LXXII (April, 1982).
               Palmer, George A., "How Did Our First Settlers Find Homes in Smith
                        Township?" 
                     
                                Whitley County
                             Historical Society Bulletin, XXI (February, 1983).
               Parker, Lois Porter, "Bloomingdale …," Old Fort
                            News, XLV (No. 2, 1982). [History of a 
                            Fort Wayne
                         neighborhood.]
               Patterson, Richard, "The Reno Gang," American History
                            Illustrated, XVII (1982).
               Peebles, Emmy, "Street Names, Maps Reveal City's [
                            Crawfordsville
                        ] History (Part I)," Montgomery Magazine, VIII (April,
                        1983).
               Peterson, Jacqueline Louise, "The People In Between: Indian-White Marriage and the
                        Genesis of a Metis Society and Culture in the Great Lakes Region, 1680–1830"
                        (Ph.D. dissertation, University of Illinois at 
                            Chicago
                         Circle, 1981).
               Rafert, Stewart James, "The Hidden Community: The Miami Indians of Indiana,
                        1846–1940" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                            Delaware
                        , 1982).
               Raucher, Alan R., "Paul G. Hoffman, Studebaker, and the Car Culture," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX (September, 1983).
               "The Reminiscences of Private Cox in 
                            France
                        , 1918," Indiana Military History Journal, VIII (January,
                        1983). [Experiences of a Hoosier in Europe during World War I.]
               "Richard Corbaley's Diary, 1855," Part V, 
                     
                                Marshall County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, XII (April, 1983). [Diary of 
                            Marshall County
                         resident.]
               Richards, Clifford, "
                            Fort Wayne
                         Women," Old Fort News, XLV (No. 3, 1982). [Brief
                        biographical sketches of various prominent 
                            Fort Wayne
                         women, pioneer period to early twentieth century.]
               Rose, Robert C., The Fifty Year History of Burris School (
                            Muncie
                        , Ind.: Ball State University, 1981). [History of the laboratory school at Ball
                        State University.]
               
               Santos, Richard, "Earnings among Spanish-Origin Males in the Midwest," Social Science Journal, XIX (1982).
               Sayler, Dorothy, "Churches, Schools Vital Part of Pioneer Life [in Scott
                        Township]," Montgomery Magazine, VIII (August, 1983). [Reprint of a
                        1924 essay on the history of this 
                            Montgomery County
                         township.]
               Scheuer, George A., ed., From Council Oak to Shopping Mall: The Ethnic Background
                            of 
                                St. Joseph County
                            , Indiana (
                            South Bend
                        , 1982).
               Schroeder, Glenna R., ed., "The Civil War Diary of Chaplain Stephen C.
                        Bowers," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX (June, 1983).
               Schultz, George F., "The First World War I Draftees in 
                            Whitley County
                        ," 
                     
                                Whitley County
                             Historical Society Bulletin, XXI (February, 1983).
               Sheehan, Bernard W., "The Famous Hair Buyer General": Henry 
                            Hamilton
                        , George Rogers Clark, and the American Indian," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, LXXIX (March, 1983).
               Sloan, L. Alene, "Some Aspects of the Woman Suffrage Movement in Indiana"
                        (Ph.D. dissertation, Ball State University, 1982).
               Smith, Ronald A., "Freedom of Religion and the Land Ordinance of 1785," Journal of Church and State, XXIV (Autumn, 1982).
               Snyder, John A., A History of Liberty Township, 
                                Henry County
                            , Indiana (n.p., 1982).
               Songer, Hugo C., Duff: A Continuum (
                            Evansville
                        , Ind.: Privately printed, 1983). [Centennial history of the town of Duff, 
                            Dubois County
                        .]
               Spear, Lulu Wilkinson, "
                            Eureka
                         Theatre and Other Kewanna Businesses," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, No. 51 (Spring, 1983).
               Strege, Merle Dennis, "‘Where Scandinavian Is Spoken’: Ethnic
                        Identity and Assimilation Among Scandinavian Immigrants in the Church of God (Anderson,
                        Indiana)" (The.D. dissertation, Graduate Theological Union, 
                            Berkeley
                        , Calif., 1982).
               Stuntz, Ervin, The Incredible Wheel of Time (n.p.: Privately printed, 1983).
                        [Archaeology and Indian history in the vicinity of 
                     Plymouth, Marshall County
                  .]
               Taulman, Larry, and Don G. Wertz, The [Camp] Atterbury File (
                            Franklin
                        , Ind.: Custer Baker Middle School, 1983).
               Taylor, Robert M., Jr., "The Light of Reason: Hoosier Freethought and the Indiana
                        Rationalist Association, 1909–1913," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXXIX (June, 1983).
               Thompson, Donald E., "[
                            Wabash
                        ] College Group Organized Band in 1841," Montgomery
                        Magazine, VIII (June, 1983).
               
               Thompson, Donald E., "[Wabash College] Trustees Turn Deaf Ear to Female Pleas [for
                        Admission]," Montgomery Magazine, VIII (March, April, 1983).
               Thornbrough, Emma Lou, "The History of Black Women in Indiana," Black History News and Notes, No. 13 (May, 1983), No. [14] (August, 1983).
               Trippet, Byron K., Wabash On My Mind (
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Ind., 1982). [Reflections by a former president of Wabash College.]
               Wallace, Howard, "Schuyler Colfax and the Mails," Old
                            Courthouse News, XVII (Fall, 1983). [Discusses Colfax's involvement with
                        postal reform.]
               
                  
                            Warren
                        , Stanley, "Blacks in the World of Golf: 
                            Indianapolis
                         Style," Black History News and Notes, No. 15 (November,
                        1983).
               Watt, William J., "The Indiana Militia and the Railroad Strikes [of 1877 and
                        1894]," Indiana Military History Journal, VIII (October, 1983).
               White, Ruth, "Town of Linden [
                            Montgomery County
                        ] Incorporated in 1898," Montgomery Magazine, VIII (June,
                        1983).
               Wickliffe, Marjorie D., "History of the Negro in 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , Indiana," Old Fort News, XLV (No. 4, 1982).
               Willard, Shirley, "Whippoorwill School," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, No. 50 (Winter, 1982–1983).
               Wynn, Cleo C., "Whippoorwill Telephone Exchange," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, No. 50 (Winter,
                    1982–1983).
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
