
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 99, Issue 4, pages 305-398. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:99+issue:4+year:2003&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Editor's Note
            
                    
                  The Small City in the Midwest: A Special Issue
                
            From Fort 
                        Wayne
                     to 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana has long been a state of large towns and small cities. One of those cities, 
                        Muncie
                    , acquired an almost iconic status after sociologists Robert and Helen Lynd designated
                    it America's "
                        Middletown
                    ," in their 1929 study of the same name. Today, Ball State
                    University's Center for 
                        Middletown
                     Studies builds on its hometown's reputation by supporting research into town
                    and city life, in 
                        Muncie
                     and elsewhere. This special issue of the IMH, guest-edited by BSU's Bruce
                    Geelhoed and James Connelly, draws on material generated by one of the most important of the
                    Center's research efforts: the "Small Cities: Past, Present, and Future"
                    conference, held annually on the BSU campus. Featured here are four articles based on papers
                    delivered at the 2001 and 2002 conferences, as well as an introductory essay by the editors. Taken
                    together, these works highlight the need for historians to develop specific questions and adopt
                    particular modes of understanding for the small city—a place that, as the articles
                    demonstrate, differs in important ways from both the small town and the metropolis. Today, as small
                    towns struggle to survive and as big cities evolve into decentered, fragmented urban regions, the
                    middle ground of the small city—a place long familiar to most Indianans—offers
                    itself as a potential source of both community and heterogeneity. Surely it merits a closer look.
            
                    Readers' Survey
                
            More than 1,100 readers responded to the IMH survey that was delivered earlier this year. Your
                    answers sketch a profile of an engaged, opinionated, and serious readership. A majority of readers
                    asked to see more on such traditionally popular subjects as the pioneer era and the Civil War,
                    although a significant number of you also added comments indicating your desire for more variety,
                    both in subject and in style, in the pages of the magazine. In keeping with the point of David
                    Thelen's recent article in these pages ("Learning from the Past: Individual
                    Experience and Re-enactment," June 2003), many wrote of their interest in establishing a
                    more personal connection—through family or hometown ties—to the material they
                    read in the IMH. In like manner, a majority of you expressed interest in hearing more about ongoing
                    local-history and genealogical activity around the state. A more thorough treatment of the
                    survey's results, and their implications for the IMH, will follow in our next issue. In the
                    meantime, do not hesitate to write or e-mail the editors of the magazine with your continued
                    comments and suggestions. The conversation ought not to stop with the appearance of one printed
                    survey.
            
                    Martin Ridge
                
            The IMH notes sadly the passing of Martin Ridge, a recent contributor to this journal ("A
                    View from the Faculty," in "Remembering Indiana University in the 1960s:
                    Perspectives on Dissent in the
                    
                    Heartland," March 2003) and, from 1965 to 1977, professor of history at
                    IU 
                        Bloomington
                    . Ridge was an authority on the history of the American West who served as editor of the
                        Journal of American History from 1966 to 1977 and, most recently, as director
                    of research at the 
                        Huntington
                     Library in San Marino, 
                        California
                    .
            
                    Indiana Association of Historians Annual Meeting
                
            The Indiana Association of Historians holds its twenty-fourth annual meeting at the University of 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 27, 2004. For more information, contact James Fuller, Department of
                    History, University of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1400 East Hanna Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                     46227.
            
                    IMH Changes
                
            With our 100th volume (which begins with the next issue), IMH readers will notice several changes to
                    the journal. The most obvious will be a new design to replace the familiar red cover that has been
                    our standard since 1987. In addition, two regular features of the magazine will shift in their
                    schedule. The journal's annual index, traditionally part of our December issue, will now
                    appear each March, allowing our indexer more time to prepare this important resource. Our regular
                    listing of recent published works in Indiana history, which has appeared in March, will shift to the
                    June issue. Other features will evolve, just as the journal always has. But in its overall mission,
                    the IMH will continue to pursue its longstanding goal: providing a wide audience with original,
                    interesting, historically based research on Indiana and the Midwest.
            
                    Correction: "Indiana Archives," September 2003
                
            Thank you to Rand Burnette, professor emeritus of history at MacMurray College,
                            
                  Jacksonville, Illinois
               , and immediate past president of the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Society, for the following correction to "Indiana Archives:
                    Indiana before Statehood," which appeared in the September 2003 issue: 
                        Footnote 1 in "Indiana Archives: Indiana before Statehood" states that one
                            could locate material on Lewis and Clark at the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, 
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     ,
                            among other locations.
                        The 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society is an independent not-for-profit body that receives no
                            aid from the state of 
                                Illinois
                            . We have no library, but we were at one time a subdivision of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library. The ISHL has a vast collection of historical
                            materials. They are under the jurisdiction of the 
                                Illinois
                             Historic Preservation Agency, and Kathryn Harris is the librarian. Currently
                            located in the basement of the Old State Capitol, the collection, including the Lincoln
                            Collection, will be moved to the new Lincoln Presidential Library sometime in 2004.
                    
            
         
         
         
            The Small-City Experience in the Midwest: An Introduction
            
                    James J. Connolly and E. Bruce Geelhoed
                    ∗
                
            The urban history of the United States is, for the most part, metropolitan history. Relatively few
                    historians have explored the developments and human experiences associated with smaller urban
                    settings. Yet it is in these smaller cities—particularly in states such as
                    Indiana—that many Americans have experienced what they know as urban life. This issue
                    includes four articles generated from papers presented at the first and second "Small
                    Cities—Past, Present, Future" conferences, which were held at Ball State
                    University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, in 2001 and 2002.1 Two of the articles—Timothy
                    Mahoney's introductory overview on "The Small City in American History"
                    and John D. Buenker and Theodore Mesmer's "A Separate Universe? An Exploratory
                    Effort at Defining the Small City"—are broad considerations of what has
                    distinguished small cities from both large urban communities and small towns. The remaining two
                    articles—Jack Blocker's "Building Networks: Cooperation and
                    Communication among African Americans in the Urban Midwest" and Arthur Meyers's
                    "A Sturdy Core of Thinking, Fact Seeking Citizens: Courage and Public Learning in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Hammond
                    , Indiana, in the 1920s"—explore particular historical developments
                    in the small cities of Indiana and neighboring states.
            The articles in this issue represent first steps toward both a general definition of the small city
                    and a more particular understanding of some of its distinguishing characteristics. As Mahoney
                    argues, 
                  
                     ∗James J. Connolly is associate professor of history at
                            Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, and the author of The Triumph of Ethnic Progressivism:
                                Urban Political Culture in 
                                    Boston
                                , 1900–1925 (1998). E. Bruce Geelhoed is director of the
                            Center for 
                                Middletown
                             Studies and professor of history at Ball State. He is coauthor, with Anthony O.
                            Edmonds, of Ball State University: An Interpretive History (2001). The
                            authors wish to thank Blaine Brownell, who first suggested the idea of a small cities
                            conference, as well as John Straw and the staff in the Archives and Special Collections
                            office at Ball State for assistance with photographs.
                  
                     1The Center for 
                                Middletown
                             Studies at Ball State University and the Minnestrista Cultural Center have
                            co-sponsored three Small Cities Conferences in 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana. The first Small Cities Conference was held on September 14-15, 2001,
                            the second on November 1-2, 2002, and the third on September 12-13, 2003. These conferences
                            aim to explore the unique challenges that have confronted and still confront municipalities
                            with populations between 40,000 and 100,000. The idea for the institution of this series of
                            conferences initiated with Dr. Blaine A. Brownell, president of Ball State University and a
                            founding member of the Urban History Association.
               
                     these communities displayed distinctive spatial, economic, and
                    political qualities that differentiated them from both the small town and the metropolis. Buenker
                    and Mesmer add to this history by demonstrating how complicated it is to determine what these
                    differences are. In the end, they conclude, historians need to explore less tangible aspects of
                    small-city life, which is precisely what the remaining two contributors to this issue seek to do.
                    Through it all, the exact definition of a small city remains an open question, and each essay in
                    this issue uses a somewhat different definition of the term.
            New inquiry into the history of small cities does more than fill a gap in urban history. It helps us
                    to understand more fully the localized social, cultural, and political impacts of such global
                    phenomena as industrialization and urban growth. In recent years, urban historians have increasingly
                    treated individual cities as distinctive entities rather than as interchangeable backdrops for the
                    emergence of modern society. In doing so they, like the contributors to this issue, have emphasized
                    the concept of "place": the history of the social, economic, political, and
                    cultural interactions that create distinct identities for particular communities. As Charles Tilly
                    has argued, urban history must show how local circumstances shaped the broad social trends
                    associated with the rise of industrial capitalism. Studies of small cities offer especially
                    manageable settings for such work. Further, as small cities differed significantly from large cities
                    in political, social, and cultural terms, the people living in them experienced industrialization in
                    fundamentally different ways from those residing in 
                        Chicago
                     or 
                        New York
                    .2
            
            Though hardly typical, the Midwest is a good place to begin a study of small cities. As Buenker and
                    Mesmer argue, while there was an extraordinary diversity among the economic functions, social
                    profiles, and cultural characteristics of cities with populations between 25,000 and 100,000, the
                    "ethnic factory towns" and "industrial suburbs" of middle
                    America played a central role in the rapid industrialization and urbanization of the United States
                    that occurred between 1880 and 1930. Exploring the ways in which such
                    communities—particularly those not caught in the orbit of large metropolitan
                    areas—experienced the process of industrialization can help refine and deepen the history
                    of urban twentieth-century America.
            A closer examination of the history of small cities also contributes to the history of Indiana and
                    the Midwest. At the very least, the works presented here push us to move beyond caricatures of
                    midwestern regional identity in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Far from the
                    stifling, anti-modern backwaters described in a great deal of fiction and historical literature
                    alike, small midwestern cities emerge as socially, politically, and culturally complex places.
                    Blocker's 
                  
                     2Charles Tilly, "What Good is Urban History?" Journal of Urban History, XXII (September 1996), 702-19.
               
                    
                    
                  BALL BROTHERS MANUFACTURING COMPANY, MUNCIE, INDIANA, C. 1960.
                                MANY SMALL CITIES RELIED ON MANUFACTURING AS AN ECONOMIC BASE.
                  Courtesy: Archives and Special Collections, Ball State University Libraries
                account of institution building and the creation of social networks among African
                    Americans in Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                     finds the roots of a modern black consciousness not in the metropolitan ghettoes of the
                    twentieth century, but in smaller urban settings beginning in the late nineteenth century. Meyers
                    examines the Open Forum Movement in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Hammond
                    , Indiana, during the 1920s and demonstrates that ideas derived from the Social Gospel
                    and reform activism penetrated deeply into a heartland often portrayed as Klan-dominated.
            The articles in this issue are beginning points in the study of small cities in the Midwest. Much
                    work on the subject remains to be done. One might, for example, look more closely at the
                    distribution of power–economic, political, and social–in small cities. While
                    Mahoney claims that small cities were typically dominated by a handful of wealthy families, both
                    Blocker and Meyers present evidence of substantial challenges to the status quo. These claims do not
                    necessarily contradict each other, but they suggest that we need more research into the social and
                    political dynamics of these communities and into the forms of resistance that were possible within
                    them. Likewise, we 
                    
                  MAYORS OF RACINE, WISCONSIN,
                            1879–1911. LIKE MANY SMALL CITIES, RACINE WAS
                                ETHNICALLY DIVERSE, WITH LEADING POLITICAL FIGURES OF ENGLISH,
                                IRISH, AND GERMAN DESCENT.
                  Courtesy: Archives and Special Collections, Ball State University Libraries
                know relatively little about class relations, cultural attitudes, spatial patterns of
                    settlement and building, and a range of topics as they relate to the small city. It is our hope that
                    this issue will encourage research that begins to address these and other questions.
         
         
         
            The Small City in American History
            
                    Timothy R. Mahoney
                    ∗
                
            As Bruce Geelhoed and James Connolly point out in their introduction to this issue, the field of
                    urban history tends to focus on the development of large cities, and relatively few historians have
                    considered the history of small towns and cities, particularly those in the Midwest. Yet in this
                    region, as across the United States, there are hundreds of small towns and small cities that serve
                    distinct local and regional functions. Some small cities grew and developed by connecting themselves
                    to the national economy through the manufacture of specific products for national markets. Still,
                    industries in small cities, lacking the depth of support and external economies of the
                        metropolis,1 often struggled to remain competitive, and the industrial base
                    of these cities has been chronically fragile. Their histories are marked by a pattern in which a few
                    industries arrive and depart in waves, based upon the availability of resources, movements of
                    capital and populations, and national economic trends. Thus, more so than resilient and diverse
                    metropolises, small cities have been compelled to reinvent themselves continually and to develop
                    more diversified economies able to withstand the vagaries of larger economic forces.
            The history of any town or city—especially the small ones—needs to be examined
                    within a broader context of the regional and national economic systems in which it exists and tries
                    to maintain or develop its economic functions.2 Urban historians have generally
                    shown that since colonial times, when the Atlantic mercantile system gradually penetrated American
                    life, towns emerged as the places of exchange where market-oriented farmers sold their surplus goods
                    into regional or international markets. As the production and exchange of agricultural products
                    increased across urban hinterlands, seaports saw an increase in long-distance trade, and with it all
                    the necessary ancillary activities—ship building, warehousing, rope making, etc. 
                  
                     ∗Timothy R. Mahoney is professor of history at the
                            University of 
                                Nebraska
                            , Lincoln, and author of River Towns in the Great West: The
                                Structure of Provincial Urbanization in the American Midwest, 1820–1870
                            (1990) and Provincial Lives: Middle-Class Experience in the Antebellum Middle
                                West (1999).
                  
                     1External economies, or efficiencies generated from outside a
                            business, increase when that business is located amid a cluster of various economic
                            activities and resources in the metropolis.
                  
                     2Mahoney, River Towns in the Great West.
                  
               
                     In the early republic, innovations in agriculture, undertaken
                    in response to a rapidly increasing population but declining farm sizes and yields, intensified
                    market competition among farmers and gradually increased the trade between coastal port towns and
                    rural areas. To facilitate trade, towns and states improved roads, which further increased market
                    activity and set in motion a shakeout of unsuccessful farmers. Merchants and craftsmen responded to
                    increased local demand and greater competition. They increased production of craft goods by
                    expanding shops or by adopting a putting-out system of production, employing rural laborers as well
                    as many unsuccessful farmers who had migrated to towns and cities. Gradually market competition,
                    from both home and abroad, encouraged producers, merchants, craftsmen, and processors to specialize.
                    In centrally located towns some specialized producers benefited from limited external economies and
                    achieved economies of scale which enabled them to out-compete smaller producers. By responding to
                    market competition, dividing their labor, specializing, and rearranging or mechanizing production,
                    they set in motion the industrial revolution.3
            
            At the beginning of the industrial revolution small cities grew up along river fall lines in 
                        Massachusetts
                     and Pennsylvania.4 By the 1830s, however, port towns, with their
                    advantageous locations and economies based on a variety of firms, services, and resources, grew into
                    major cities and acquired increasing shares of local and regional markets. These
                            cities—
                  Boston, New York, Philadelphia,
                            Baltimore, Cincinnati, St. Louis, San Francisco
               , and 
                        Chicago
                    —emerged as regional entrepots or market centers, increasingly interconnected
                    in an emerging national economy. City merchants and manufacturers extended their trade for produce
                    and the market for their goods into their hinterlands, facilitated by the transportation
                    revolution—first 
                  
                     3Gary B. Nash, The Urban Crucible: Social Change,
                                Political Consciousness, and the Origins of the American Revolution (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1979); James T. Lemon, The Best Poor Man's
                                Country: A Geographical Study of Early Southeastern Pennsylvania (
                                Baltimore
                            , Md., 1972); D. W. Meinig, The Shaping of America: A Geographical
                                Perspective on 500 Years of History, Volume I: Atlantic America,
                                1492-1800 (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1986); Thomas S. Wermuth, "
                                New York
                             Farmers and the Market Revolution: Economic Behavior in the Mid-Hudson Valley,
                            1780–1830," Journal of Social History, XXXII (Fall
                            1998), 179-96; Christopher Clark, The Roots of Rural Capitalism: Western 
                                    Massachusetts
                                , 1780–1860 (
                                Ithaca
                            , N.Y., 1990); James Henretta, The Origins of American Capitalism:
                                Collected Essays (
                                Boston
                            , Mass., 1991); Gordon S. Wood, "Was America Born Capitalist?"
                                Wilson Quarterly, XXIII (Spring 1999), 36-46.
                  
                     4Christopher Clark, "The Consequence of the Market Revolution
                            in the Antebellum North," in The Market Revolution in America: Social,
                                Political, and Religious Expressions, 1800-1880, eds. Melvin Stokes and Stephen
                            Conway (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1996), 23-42; Jonathan Prude, "Capitalism, Industrialization and
                            the Factory in Post-Revolutionary America," in Wages of Independence,
                                Capitalism in the Early Republic, ed. Paul A Gilje (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1997), 81-99; Jonathan Prude, The Coming of Industrial
                                Order: Town and Factory Life in Rural 
                                    Massachusetts
                                , 1810-1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1983); Winifred 
                                Barr
                             Rothenberg, From Market-places to a Market Economy: The
                                Transformation of Rural 
                                    Massachusetts
                                , 1750-1850 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1992); Allan Kulikoff, The Agrarian Origins of American
                                Capitalism (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1992).
               
                    
                    
                  BIRD'S EYE VIEW OF CHICAGO, 1857, BY CHRISTIAN INGER
                  
                  Courtesy: 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society
                roads, then canals, and then railroads. Cities developed into regional metropolises that
                    could exert control over the trade and production of people in smaller cities, small towns, and
                    rural areas. Thus a key dynamic of urbanization was the emergence of a few large cities at the
                    center of an economic system that controlled a network of smaller cities and towns serving secondary
                    or peripheral roles in transportation and merchandising.
            In the urban history of the United States, two predominant narratives have emerged: that of the
                    metropolis and that of the small town. The former is the story of regional and national centers of
                    economic development that enjoyed steady, even rapid, growth and became focal points of the
                    emergence of the modern nation. The latter is the story of local or regional centers that played
                    peripheral, secondary, or reactive roles in the national economy. The story of the rise and
                    development of the metropolis is familiar.5 Only somewhat less familiar is the
                    story of the small town in America. This narrative portrays the small town as the refuge of
                    community, a place where people who know each other live in a localized, entrepreneurial, organic
                    society that is in its structure and quality nearly the opposite of metropolitan life.6 What is missing, of course, is a story line for those urban places 
                  
                     5Robert Greenhalgh Albion with Jennie Barnes Pope, The
                                Rise of 
                                    New York
                                 Port, 1815–1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1939); Edwin G. Burrows and Mike Wallace, Gotham: A History of 
                                    New York
                                 City to 1898 (
                                New York
                            , 1999); Richard C. Wade, The Urban Frontier: The Rise of Western
                                Cities, 1790–1830 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1959); William Cronon, Nature's Metropolis: 
                                    Chicago
                                 and the Great West (
                                New York
                            , 1991); Eric H. Monkkonen, America Becomes Urban: the Development
                                of U.S. Cities & Towns, 1780–1980 (Berkeley, Calif., 1988).
                  
                     6Catherine Stock has called this ethos
                            "producerist." See Catherine McNicol Stock, Main Street in
                                Crisis: The Great Depression and the Old Middle Class On the Northern Plains (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N. C, 1992).
               
                    
                    
                  VIEW OF CHICAGO RAIL LINES AND DOWNTOWN, LOOKING TOWARD
                                MICHIGAN AVENUE, 1945
                  Courtesy: Indiana University Archives, Charles W. Cushman Collection (P2995)
               
                    
                    
                  SULLIVAN STREET, CHICAGO, 1946. A
                                WORKING-CLASS RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OF THE CITY.
                  Courtesy: Indiana University Archives, Charles W. Cushman Collection (P3116)
                in between the small town and the metropolis: the small cities of America. I would like to
                    argue that the story of small cities, like the structures and dynamics of those cities, is a
                    distinctive hybrid combining elements of the two dominant narratives. To explore the particularities
                    of this story, I will briefly sketch the content of the two primary narratives, attempt to define
                    small cities, offer a sketch of their narrative, and suggest a pattern that may guide their
                    existence.
            First the metropolis. As regional entrepots became the transportation and trade centers of the
                    mid-nineteenth-century East and Midwest, more and more people migrated into them. The clustering of
                    resources generated dramatic external economies that enabled manufacturers to expand the scale and
                    scope of industrial production. Wealth and power concentrated in the large cities, increasing the
                    ability of urban businesses to gain control over even more resources and markets. This concentration
                    of development fundamentally transformed the large city's spatial and social arrangements.
                    A specialized downtown of business, services, and entertainment developed, surrounded by
                    manufacturing districts located near a seaport, a river, or railroads. Beyond these areas people
                    moved into residential districts differentiated by wealth, class, ethnicity, and race. City
                    government expanded its bureaucracy to provide a broader range of services and implement planning
                    policies. Rings of suburbs and satellite cities, and later exurbs and "edge
                    cities," also differentiated  by wealth and ethnicity,
                    developed. Metropolitan life became crowded, fragmented, alienating, and sometimes pathological, but
                    it was also dynamic, diverse, and full of opportunity. The ideal city, as envisioned by citizens of
                    the metropolis, was cosmopolitan and world-class—an urban world within a world, a
                    civilization in its own right, with all that modern life had to offer.
            In contrast, this rapid centralization of economic activity in the metropolis left many small towns
                    to serve as local centers for exchange, service, and transport. These economic functions connected
                    towns to regions, but there was limited stimulus for further economic development. For most of the
                    nineteenth and twentieth centuries, therefore, small towns in general experienced slower and less
                    dynamic economic change than that which occurred in metropolitan and suburban America. This
                    different economic experience was the foundation of the distinctive social and cultural character of
                    small-town life. But only with the emergence of metropolises, and of a distinctive second tier of
                    small cities—mostly state capitals, college towns, and industrial/service
                    centers—did the urban places across the Midwest that stopped growing or grew very slowly
                    become "small towns." Indeed, an important historical characteristic of the small
                    town is that at one time, many, if not most, of its citizens imagined themselves to be living in a
                    "future metropolis" or at least a significant regional center.
            From 1800 through the 1840s urban economy, society, and culture were constructed within the framework
                    of a "booster ethos" that Robert Wiebe has called the "way of the
                        town."7 This social and cultural construct posited an orderly
                    society rooted in middle-size towns whose modest scale supported an organic social order sustained
                    by a mix of cooperative and individualistic economic activity. Many boosters in antebellum towns
                    understood "the town" as the ideal framework for their individualistic,
                    republican, bourgeois political economy and social order.8 In towns across the
                    country a predominantly American-born middle-class elite articulated a local boosterism. According
                    to this view one achieved success in work and enjoyed the satisfactions of family life through
                    self-control, hard work, and religious faith. Middle-class citizens built a successful town by
                    developing the town economy, establishing a system of law and order, founding institutions, creating
                    a civic life, and formulating booster policy. They established a degree of social control through
                    their institutions and cultivated gender-based subcultures designed to reform the working-class and
                    transient residents of the town.9
            
            
               
                  7Robert H. Wiebe, The Opening of American Society: From the
                            Adoption of the Constitution to the Eve of Disunion (
                            New York
                        , 1984), 84.
               
                  8William L. Barney, The Passage of the Republic: An
                            Interdisciplinary History of Nineteenth Century America (
                            New York
                        , 1987), 182.
               
                  9John Jakle, "America's Small Town/Big City
                        Dialectic," Journal of Cultural Geography, XVIII (Spring/Summer
                        1999), 1-27.
            
            
            At the core of the booster ethos was a strong entrepreneurial impetus that distinguished most towns
                    in the Midwest from those in the Upland South and 
                        New England
                    . The construction of railroads across the region from the 1840s through the 1880s
                    transformed the environment in which local businessmen operated. Many boosters over-invested in
                    local improvements and railroads and were left exposed to financial reverses that in the Panic of
                    1857 undermined the booster ethos and threatened the economic viability of many towns. These towns,
                    now far to the east of the frontier, could no longer claim some future greatness which would
                    parallel the development of their region. The rhetoric of small-town boosterism did continue farther
                    west, however, into 
                  Kansas, Nebraska, Minnesota
               ,
                    the Dakotas, and beyond into the 1890s. Boosters unwilling to accept lowered expectations left for
                    the urban West to try to repeat their formula for success.
            Those who stayed behind—and small town culture was pervaded from that time to now with an
                    awareness that residents had chosen to "stay behind"—tried to forge new
                    social identities. This effort would create the core notion of what was considered
                    "small-town life" during the early twentieth century. The small town was the place
                    many city residents had left behind; it became metropolitan America's
                    "hometown." There residents maintained the old ways and lived more cohesive lives,
                    even as they balanced limited local economic opportunities with a desire to modernize somewhat apace
                    with the city. Small-town boosterism now heralded the values of smallness and modest growth. People
                    living in a small society were more organically connected to each other and thus had stronger senses
                    of identity, social responsibility, and morality. From the 1870s through the 1910s small-town life
                    was mostly portrayed in this positive light. But many felt differently. To detractors small towns
                    were provincial islands, out of touch with modern life. They were places in which residents lived
                    frustrated and limited social, cultural, and intellectual lives. Indeed, many small-town colleges,
                    academies, museums, hospitals, and government services struggled to remain competitive and
                    eventually settled for being just viable.10
            
            This dichotomy between positive and negative, rooted in the experiences of residents past and
                    present, was the framework in which most people understood small towns in twentieth-century America.
                    These contesting images followed the contradictory realities of small-town life. During good times,
                    bursts of development and signs of progress seem to fulfill positive expectations. When times in the
                    rural Midwest were bad—especially during the 1890s and again 
                  
                     10Robert H. Wiebe, The Search for Order,
                                1877–1920 (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 4; Dwight Hoover, "Social Science Looks at the Small American
                            Town," in The Small Town in America: A Multidisciplinary Revisit,
                            eds. Hans Bertens and Theo D'haen (Amsterdam, 1995), 19-29.
               
                    
                    
                  NEW CASTLE HIGH SCHOOL, NEW CASTLE, INDIANA, BOASTS
                                THE LARGEST HIGH SCHOOL GYMNASIUM IN THE NATION.
                  Courtesy: Ron Tower
                in the 1920s and 1930s—and small towns were particularly hard hit, they became
                    the locus of an array of social pathologies and frustrations. As small towns were increasingly drawn
                    into the national system by modern communication and transport, their differences from metropolitan
                    America narrowed, though even today, the spatial, economic, and social context of small-town life
                    remains distinct. For some, the integration of the small town into mass culture has marked a gradual
                    erosion of local control over community life and thus local identity. For others, it has allowed
                    small-town people to live fuller lives, thus enabling small towns to maintain population and attract
                    newcomers. This is especially true of towns near a metropolis that have been gradually subsumed into
                    "edge cities" since the 1970s.11 For such places wealth and
                    investment have rejuvenated local resources and facilities, intertwining the suburb and small town
                    into a new configuration of the American dream.
            The ideal of the "small town life" still lives. Its characteristics include a
                    distinctive focus on high school life and sports (in lieu of 
                  
                     11Joel Garreau, Edge City: Life on the New Frontier (
                                New York
                            , 1991); David R. Contosta, 
                        
                           Lancaster, Ohio
                        , 1800–2000: Frontier Town to Edge City
                                    (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1999).
               
                     collegiate or professional sports), on the culture of the Main
                    Street chamber of commerce, on the personalized system of law and order at the court house, and on
                    the various social groups that operate within the town's churches, civic associations,
                    clubs, and taverns.12 Caught between being considered a social utopia by its
                    supporters and a dystopia by its detractors, the small town in twenty-first century America has been
                    examined as a sociological laboratory, heralded as a social ideal, and pilloried as a social
                    wasteland. The reality, of course, lies somewhere in between. The small town remains caught between
                    very real divergent forces. Its increasingly contradictory image reflects the deepening predicament
                    of being small in a mass society.
            The story of small cities lies somewhere between these two narratives. A small city is basically a
                    small town that has grown to a larger size by the selective transference of metropolitan industrial
                    activity and/or large public institutions. Even though a small city may grow beyond the scale of a
                    small town and begin to acquire some metropolitan elements, it does not necessarily outgrow its
                    small-town structures and patterns of interaction.
            The small city was a creation of two distinct periods within the industrial revolution: the first
                    from the 1830s to the 1860s, and the second from the late 1890s through the 1930s. During these
                    periods, for a variety of reasons, the forces of centralization that had given birth to the
                    nineteenth-century industrial metropolis began to face diminishing returns and a variety of
                    diseconomies. As a result, some industries began to specialize in making one thing or a few things
                    (for example iron, steel, consumer goods, processed foods, or automobiles) within a regional
                    industrial complex. Through this type of specialization companies were able to achieve the
                    efficiencies necessary to be competitive, and because of improvements in transportation they were
                    able to locate away from the metropolis in smaller towns across the East and Midwest. These towns
                    emerged as secondary or tertiary economic centers for small regions (still within the economic orbit
                    of the metropolis), and they began to provide a wide ranges of services for that region. They could
                    offer "economies of agglomeration and scale," and "many specialized
                    functions," but could not support the wide range of services available in a large city.
                    Following this pattern, a number of small towns across the country (especially in the East and
                    Midwest) began to develop into small cities.13
            
            
               
                  12Richard O. Davies, Main Street Blues: The Decline of
                            Small-Town America (
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  , 1998).
               
                  13D. W. Meinig, The Shaping of America: A Geographical
                            Perspective on 500 Years of History, Volume III: Transcontinental America,
                            1850–1915 (
                            New Haven
                        , Conn., 1998), 227-44; Peter Temin, The Iron and Steel Industry in
                            Nineteenth Century America: An Economic Inquiry (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1964); David R. Meyer, "Emergence of the American Manufacturing
                        Belt: An Interpretation," Journal of Historical Geography IX (April
                        1983), 145-74; David R. Meyer, "Midwestern Industrialization and the
            
            
            As they did this, however, no concomitant vision or ideology of the small city developed with them.
                    Even today one struggles to define a small city. Is it a big small town of 50,000 to 70,000 people
                    (2000 Census) like 
                  Muncie, Terre Haute
               , and 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana; Canton, 
                        Ohio
                    ; Lawrence, 
                  Kansas; Oshkosh, Wisconsin
               ; and 
                  Dubuque,
                            Iowa
               ? Or is it a city of 100,000 people
                    such as 
                        Springfield
                    , Peoria, and Joliet, 
                        Illinois
                    ; Sioux Falls, South Dakota; 
                  Topeka,
                            Kansas; Evansville
               , Indiana; and Green Bay, 
                        Wisconsin
                    ? Or should larger places with 200,000 residents—places like Lincoln,
                            
                  Nebraska; Madison, Wisconsin
               ; Akron, 
                        Ohio
                    ; and 
                  Little Rock, Arkansas
               —be considered the real small cities?
                    Aside from population size, what characteristics do small cities have?
            Most small cities are autonomous places with a distinctive urban history. Most have, in spite of some
                    urban sprawl, a clear edge between the city and the country (usually no more than a twenty-minute
                    drive away). Most small cities have relatively few major suburbs surrounding them. Instead they have
                    annexed large areas on their fringe, sometimes absorbing nearby villages and small towns. As a
                    result of physical separation from any metropolis, most small cities have a coherent identity as a
                    separate place, and residents view their city as an urban whole containing all the elements of both
                    the small town and the metropolis. This tends to create a divided image which is reflected in
                    policy. Describing one's city as a "big city with a small-town feeling"
                    or exclaiming that the acquisition of a certain institution, facility, or team means no longer being
                    "small-town" are staples of the chambers of commerce and mayors of small cities. A
                    small city aspires to be a metropolis while priding itself on maintaining aspects of the small town.
                    It is both, and, as such, is inevitably described as having the "best of both
                    worlds." For example, a predominantly residential suburb interspersed with office parks,
                    malls, and highways may have all that city life has to offer, but it does not have a downtown, a
                    heavy manufacturing district, a main railroad station, or a stadium. Perhaps small cities can be
                    defined as urban places that have an evening or morning newspaper that reports national or
                    international news, a local television station, a public transit system, at least a few tall
                    buildings or "skyscrapers," an interstate highway that goes by or around but not
                    necessarily through, a separate airport served directly by a nearby hub, bridges, stadia, regional
                    malls, some urban sprawl, and most national chain companies and stores—even those at the
                    higher end of merchandising. Small cities usually have institutions or programs like a symphony, a
                    zoo, a state university or college, a 
                  American Manufacturing Belt in the Nineteenth Century," Journal of
                                Economic History XLIX (December 1989), 921-37; Monkkonen, America
                                Becomes Urban, 46-49; Walter Licht, Industrializing America: The
                                Nineteenth Century (
                                Baltimore
                            , Md., 1995), 21-45, 102-17; Jon C. Teaford, Cities of the
                                Heartland: The Rise and Fall of the Industrial Midwest (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1993).
               
               
                    
                  CONCORDIA COLLEGE, FORT WAYNE, INDIANA, 1905
                  Courtesy: Indiana Historical Society
                park or trail system, or a minor league sports team. These all improve what local boosters
                    often term the "quality of life," making the city "livable" and
                    a "nice place to raise a family," in contrast to the metropolis. At the same time,
                    these institutions contribute to the small city's up-to-date,
                    "metropolitan" appearance and symbolize its big-city aspirations.14
            
            But most small cities also share many of the characteristics of small towns. Both feature less
                    consumer choice, a middle-range restaurant scene, less population and cultural diversity, less
                    density, less crowding and traffic, lower housing and land costs, as well as smaller government,
                    better services, better schools, and lower crimes rates. Small-city residents aspire both to become
                    more metropolitan and to maintain a small-town feel; they seek to maintain a balance and regard that
                    balance as an urban ideal. Maintaining the ideal of both growth and maintenance of a small-town
                    atmosphere is difficult, and many small-city residents and boosters are caught between two urban
                    visions. This struggle to navigate the vagaries of regional and national economies constitutes a
                    story as distinctive as that of either the small town or the metropolis—a story that
                    could form the basis of an ideology of the small city as an ideal urban place.
            
               
                  14Chamber of Commerce booster rhetoric is ubiquitous in many histories of
                        small cities. For a few examples among many see Frederick Hampton Roy, How We
                            Lived: 
                                Little Rock
                             as an American City (
                            Little Rock
                        , Ark., 1984), 183-85; Ken Bloom and Marian Wolbers, Allentown: A
                            Pictorial History (Norfolk, Va., 1984); Barbara Herrick, Boise: A Global
                            Community in the West (
                            Montgomery
                        , Ala., 1996); Jane Hieb, Eau Claire, Heartland of the Chippewa Valley:
                            An Illustrated History, (Northridge, Calif, 1988); William E. Wilkie, 
                     
                                Dubuque
                             on the 
                                Mississippi
                            , 1788–1988 (
                     Dubuque, Iowa
                  , 1987);
                        Edward J. Russo and Karen Graff, 
                     
                                Prairie
                             of Promise: 
                                Springfield
                             and Sangamon County (Woodland Hills, Calif., 1983).
            
            
            
               STUDEBAKER VEHICLE WORKS, SOUTH BEND, INDIANA. STUDEBAKER
                            VEHICLES WERE SOLD NATIONALLY AND OVERSEAS.
               Courtesy: Indiana Historical Society
            
            Small cities are vulnerable to volatile cycles of growth and decline. From the 1880s through the
                    1950s small cities acquired their industrial bases, even if only from one or a few industries in
                    each city, and grew in population beyond 50,000 and sometimes beyond 100,000 and toward 200,000.
                    Such population growth naturally eroded the small-town quality of local life. Specialization,
                    diversity, impersonality, all things associated with the metropolis, transformed places like
                    Davenport, Elgin, Peoria, Akron, 
                        Dayton
                    , and 
                        Muncie
                     in the Midwest; Billings, Spokane, 
                        Topeka
                    , and Pueblo in the West; 
                  Worcester,
                            Lancaster
               , Scranton, and 
                        Syracuse
                     in the East; and Winston-
                        Salem
                    , Birmingham, and Mobile in the South. The development of local industries that produced
                    for a national market integrated small cities into the national urban system. Naturally, as these
                    cities grew, they were economically, socially, politically, and culturally affected by metropolitan
                    development and increasingly took their lead from the metropolis.
            The economic and industrial development of smaller cities, however, was often one-dimensional,
                    dependent on major industries. When those industries declined, or relocated closer to the metropolis
                    or to the West or South, the local economy contracted. In prosperous times, small cities acquired a
                    proportional realm of diverse manufacturing to supply local needs, in addition to the major
                    industries that produced goods for the national market. But in good times or bad, these smaller
                    producers of goods for local markets found themselves outcompeted  by larger outside producers. While industries that produced for a national market rose and fell,
                    the local industrial base that sustained many small cities gradually eroded, and many smaller local
                    industries failed. Hence, in spite of industrial development, a kind of two-tiered economy evolved.
                    The industries in small cities generated few external economies, reducing economic feedback and
                    limiting local development. Entrepreneurs and managers faced lower returns, and, as a result, were
                    further exposed to outside competition. They achieved some economies of scale, but not as great as
                    those generated by metropolitan competitors. Therefore, the margin between revenues and costs was
                    always narrower and more precarious. Such pressures could divert investment from the city, suppress
                    local development, and, at any time, undermine local industry. Because of such risks, local
                    industries adopted defensive, cautionary, and conservative stances vis a vis other industries.
                    Prosperity, when it occurred, arrived later and departed earlier than in the metropolis. Local
                    economies were exposed to national forces and, in some ways, at their mercy. This created
                    instability in local economic activity. Those small cities that acquired major public funds by
                    becoming home to a state capitol or state university were, of course, cushioned from some of the
                    pressures of deindustrialization or industrial relocation, but vagaries in public spending and the
                    mobility of a college-age population could also contribute to economic fluidity and fragility.15
            
            The social and political development of small cities reflected their economic dynamics in distinctive
                    ways. In small towns a mercantile elite, often called the "old middle class,"
                    supported an entrepreneurial booster ethos. In small cities the heads of local industry, often from
                    a few families or a single family, acquired a disproportionate amount of wealth and thus gained
                    substantial power and control over local society. While remaining connected to the metropolis, and
                    living within a national social system, they cultivated the values of place that spoke to an older
                    small-town vision. Rather than moving to the suburbs and distancing themselves from political and
                    social life, many industrial owners and managers stayed in the small city and established themselves
                    as an oligarchic elite within the larger business class. Because city government was small and
                    underfunded, this elite group, like the old mercantile elite of the mid-nineteenth century, became a
                    private source of capital—often a kind of shadow government—for local
                    institutional and infrastructural development. For industrial leaders the small city became
                    "their" city, just as the company was "their" privately held
                    company. They became proprietors or stewards of the town and its people. Though they expressed a
                    sense of noblesse oblige and acted out of generosity, 
                  
                     15Meyer, "Emergence of the American Manufacturing
                            Belt," 145-74; Meyer, "Midwestern Industrialization and the American
                            Manufacturing Belt," 921-37; Licht, Industrializing America,
                            21-45, 102-17.
               
                    
                    
                  FRANK C. BALL ESTATE, ONE OF SEVERAL LARGE HOMES BUILT BY
                                THE BALL FAMILY IN MUNCIE,
                                INDIANA. THE BALLS FIGURED
                                PROMINENTLY IN THE BUSINESS, CIVIC, AND POLITICAL LIFE OF THE CITY.
                  Courtesy: Archives and Special Collections, Ball State University Libraries
                they expected thanks and admiration from their workers and from townspeople, even though
                    these groups were rarely consulted on matters which affected their lives and welfare. The business
                    elite ruled the city, and sometimes the city government, as an oligarchy. Nevertheless, some of
                    these leaders, while strongly associating themselves with the small city and its business class,
                    also lived within a regional or national elite society. They acquired a metropolitan style,
                    intermarried with the national elite, vacationed at the "right" destinations, and
                    summered and wintered in fashionable places on the East Coast, in 
                        California
                    , or in 
                        Florida
                     where members of the regional or national elite gathered.
            Even a partial list of the small-city business elite includes some of the wealthiest and most famous
                    manufacturing tycoons of the twentieth century. In 
                        Nebraska
                     City, 
                        Nebraska
                    , for example, the Mortons assumed control; in Tacoma and 
                        Rock Island
                     the Weyerhausers; in Battle Creek the Kelloggs and Posts; in Akron the Sieberlings (of
                    Goodyear) and Firestones; in 
                        Dayton
                     the Pattersons; in 
                        Muncie
                     the Ball family; in Moline the Deeres; in Racine the Johnsons; in Winston-
                        Salem
                     the Reynoldses and Dukes. Where several families prevailed, instead of one, a group of
                    elite men and women, most of whom were members in several exclusive clubs as well the Board of Trade
                    or Chamber of Commerce, played a similar proprietary role.
            The degree to which members of these families associated themselves with the town varied. In the
                    1870s and 1880s John Deere served as mayor of Moline, was an active booster, and contributed  to a "wide range of local educational, religious, and
                    charitable organizations." Later family members lived increasingly in 
                        Chicago
                     or 
                        New York
                    . The Kelloggs of Battle Creek, likewise, were natives of the city and not only built up
                    a national corporation, but also exerted considerable influence on local government, provided
                    funding for local schools, libraries, community centers, and auditoriums, and even helped bail out
                    city banks during the depression. Yet later in life, William K. Kellogg had a palatial home in 
                        Florida
                     and a horse ranch in 
                        California
                     and traveled the world. In Akron in the 1920s and 1930s, C. K. Sieberling, who always
                    remained a city resident, established company hospitals, restaurants, schools, and playing fields,
                    developed residential neighborhoods near his plant, and served in the Chamber of Commerce. Harvey
                    Firestone supported "the City Planning Commission, the Municipal University, a housing
                    project, the Community Fund, the churches, and sundry civic programs." In 
                        Dayton
                    , John H. Patterson, who considered 
                        Dayton
                     "his city," lived in a modest home and eschewed a
                    "society" life, supported the construction of city parks, a public country club,
                    and city beautification projects, formed a citizens' relief association, and a bureau of
                    municipal research, and advocated progressive reform of the city government. The members of the Ball
                    family of 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, were particularly benevolent. They invested in other major industries,
                    revived the local university that later became Ball State University, contributed funds to build
                    hospitals, the YMCA, and other institutions, and exerted control over the economy far longer than
                    did wealthy citizens in most small cities.16
            
            The nature of the business elite's influence shaped their interactions with the old
                    producerist middle class (or the Main Street local component of the business class) and the working
                    class in a variety of intriguing and understudied ways. The old middle class on Main Street and the
                    local industrial elite occupied different social realms. The entrepreneurial middle class lived in a
                    more local world. Their lives were centered on Main Street and the homegrown culture of the chamber
                    of commerce, the bench and bar, fraternal organizations (Jaycees, Kiwanis, Rotarians, Masons, Odd
                    Fellows, Elks, Eagles, Moose, Red Men, Knights of 
                        Columbus
                    , etc.), local churches, schools and colleges. Situated between 
                  
                     16Works Project Administration, Indiana: A Guide to the
                                Hoosier State (
                                New York
                            , 1941), 224-25; Horace B. Powell, The Original Has This
                                Signature—W. K. Kellogg (Englewood Cliffs, N. J., 1956); Hugh Allen, Rubber's Home Town, The Real-Life Story of Akron (
                                New York
                            , 1949); Alfred Lief, Harvey Firestone: Free Man of Enterprise (
                                New York
                            , 1951), 217; Hugh Allen, The House of Goodyear: Fifty Years of Men
                                and Industry (
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     , 1949), 176-79; Hugh Allen, The House of Goodyear, A Story of Rubber and Modern Business
                                    (
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     , 1943), 290-97; Charlotte Reeve Conover, The Story of 
                                    Dayton
                                
                      (
                        Dayton, Ohio
                     , 1917); Samuel Crowther, John H. Patterson, Pioneer in Industrial Welfare (
                                Garden City
                            , N. J., 1923), 310, 302-48; Wayne G. Broehl, John Deere's
                                Company: A History of Deere & Company and Its Times (
                                New York
                            , 1984), 250-55; John Hauberg Papers, Augustana College (Library, Special
                            Collections, 
                        Rock Island, Illinois
                     ).
               
                    
                    
                  DOWNTOWN RACINE, WISCONSIN. AN EXAMPLE OF THE ONCE-THRIVING SMALL-CITY DOWNTOWN.
                  Courtesy: Archives and Special Collections, Ball State University Libraries
                the translocal industrial elite and the often transient working class, the old middle
                    class viewed themselves as the foundation of a local society that was independent, homegrown, and
                    conservative. Even as they welcomed developments that modernized the city, they tried to sustain the
                    culture of small-town neighborliness that forged the bonds of an organic society. In the stores,
                    newspaper office, barbershop, opera house, courthouse square, clubs, and saloons, at church, in the
                    local park, or at the baseball diamond supporting the high school team, this local middle class
                    created the independently owned, entrepreneurial, laissez-faire economy that supported the booster
                    ethos and made the city work efficiently. Members of this Main Street society, firm in their
                    parochial beliefs, strove to be up-to-date on Main Street and in their homes and yet maintain local
                    political and social control over their lives. They accepted the limitations of slow growth and the
                    frustrations of limited opportunities that defined their small-city life and cultivated a cautious,
                    conservative worldview.
            Even as the local middle class joined in the industrial elite's aspirations and efforts to
                    improve their small city, they did so with ambivalence. Such ambivalence produced a cautiously
                    progressive conservatism at the core of middle-class life. Those members of the old middle class who
                    joined moral reform movements, law and order  leagues, vigilance
                    committees, and prohibition parties, and instituted progressive institutional reforms, did so only
                    periodically and achieved limited results. More often than not, they ended up deferring to the
                    industrial elites who provided the funding for so many city projects. Often ambivalence translated
                    into resistance against modernization. Increasingly from the 1920s through the 1950s, the disparaged
                    old middle class resisted big government, big business, and modernism by turning culturally inward
                    and adhering to a "way things were done" mentality, which tried to ensure
                    conformity among "right thinking," "middle of the road,"
                    "regular guys" who stood for "power and purity" and
                    "100% Americanism." Some occasionally turned simmering anger and resentment
                    against modern immorality, diversity, and labor into support for nativism—and, in the
                    1920s across the urban South and Midwest, the Ku Klux Klan—but in most small cities
                    outbreaks of radically aggressive conservativism were short-lived and infrequent. The small-city
                    middle class sought, for the most part, to accommodate modern life by maintaining a
                    "healthy balance between conservative core values and a progressive spirit" and by
                    adopting a laissez-faire viewpoint toward public policy. As they did so, a complicated friction with
                    the industrial elite evolved.17
            
            In more recent times, the old middle class of the small cities has been besieged by the same economic
                    forces that undermined the economies of small towns. The advances of modernization and
                    centralization undermined the viability of independently owned local retailers and producers and
                    threatened citizens' local control over their own affairs.18 Though
                    much of Main Street life managed to survive intact through the 1950s, the loss of local control had
                    been underway since the 1920s. First went the independently owned retailers, and, in time, local
                    banks, professional offices providing law, financial, and insurance services, as well as hotels,
                    movie theaters, and restaurants followed. With each wave, especially since the 1970s, national
                    corporations bought out local owners and operators and established branch operations. Small cities
                    were especially sought out as locations for restaurants, retail stores, gas stations, and auto
                    service shops, most of which were located by the interstate or on a major thoroughfare in malls or
                    along the strip. This process eroded some of the vitality of downtown and of the old middle class
                    that ruled it, even if the city experienced some modest growth and development. Urban sprawl, once
                    characteristic of the metropolis, became another phenomenon of the small city and further evidence
                    of the loss of its vibrant local economy.
            
               
                  17Kenneth T. Jackson, The Ku Klux Klan in the City,
                            1915–1930 (
                            New York
                        , 1967); Mari Sandoz, Capital City (
                            Boston
                        , 1939); Sinclair Lewis, Main Street And Babbit (1920 and 1922;
                        reprint, 
                            New York
                        , 1992), 646-57; Robert S. and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                     
                                Middletown
                            , A Study in American Culture (
                            New York
                        , 1929); quotation from Herrick, Boise, 20.
               
                  18Davies, Main Street Blues; Contosta, 
                            
                        Lancaster, Ohio
                     
                        , 201-29.
            
            
            Meanwhile, as this process of erosion continued into the 1960s and through the 1980s, the industrial
                    cores of many small-city economies were hit by a series of manufacturing plant closures, as
                    companies relocated or went out of business. As local plants closed, the process of economic decline
                    and readjustment was accelerated by disinvestment and out-migration that undermined local demand for
                    goods and services. Finally, as the provision of governmental services became increasingly
                    centralized at the state and federal levels, local administrators and politicians lost a substantial
                    degree of control over their own affairs. From school consolidation to local welfare programs,
                    small-city officials were forced to respond to an endless series of federal and state directives,
                    regulations, and policies for the provision of public services. As these demands increased while tax
                    revenues declined, local government was asked to do more with less and was spread increasingly thin,
                    forcing either an increase in per capita taxation or further cuts in government services.
            Not all small cities have suffered and declined during the last half-century. Small cities across the
                    South and West were the beneficiaries of relocated branch manufacturing plants.19 Other small cities across the country prospered because of their status as a state capital
                    or the home of a large private or public university or institution. The number of small cities which
                    are home either to a state capitol or a major college or university is remarkable, and these cities
                    are able to maintain relatively high "livability" ratings. Indeed, small-city
                    state capitols and college and university towns—for example, Lincoln, 
                        Nebraska
                    ; Eugene, 
                        Oregon
                    ; and 
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               —may be a special type of small city, one
                    that has avoided many of the vagaries of the previously described small-city experience. Even in
                    these cases, periods of decline in state budgets, such as occurred during the 1930s, 1980s, and
                    2000s, could have a sobering effect on the economies of smaller cities reliant on public spending.
            In recent decades social changes have reflected the volatile dynamics of small cities. Increasingly,
                    the upwardly mobile young, the local "best and the brightest," have left the small
                    city after high school. With fewer professional jobs available in branch offices, the number of
                    young people in the professional middle class also declined. Those few professionals who entered
                    town to work for branch banks and offices were members of a regional or national
                    professional/managerial class with few local ties. These people lived in the new suburbs, shopped in
                    nearby malls, joined suburban health or country clubs, and ate in regional and national chain
                    restaurants; few became involved in local affairs or had any contact with the remaining members of
                    the old middle class. They were concerned with local 
                  
                     19Carl Abbott, The Metropolitan Frontier: Cities in the
                                Modern American West (Tucson, Ariz., 1993).
               
                     services and local people only to the extent that these
                    directly affected their daily lives.
            When the members of the benefactor class died or moved away after the closure of local industries,
                    their names remained on institutions, buildings, and parks, but fewer and fewer native residents or
                    new middle-class locals recognized or cared who they were. Hence a community of strangers, in cities
                    with an eroding sense of identity and community, were left to navigate the problems associated with
                    maintaining local viability in a national economy. And so small cities remain much as they have
                    always been—neither small town nor metropolis. Their identities, societies, and policies
                    are pulled between cultivation of the virtues of smallness and community and aspiration toward the
                    services, amenities, and ideas of the metropolis.
            How can small cities more effectively navigate between the ideals of the small town and the
                    metropolis? Though the answer seems unclear, what should be apparent is that if small-city residents
                    and their elected officials strive to combine these two ideals without formulating a much clearer
                    idea of what they aspire to, their predicament will only deepen. Small-city residents need to
                    develop new policies rooted in clearer thinking about both the advantages and disadvantages of the
                    small city. A divided self-image, based on two opposing urban visions, works against any unified
                    policy formation. This leaves small cities passively exposed to national forces, which are resisted
                    by those residents who miss the small town, welcomed by those who would like local life to be more
                    metropolitan, but responded to by most with a "what else can we do?" attitude. And
                    because policy formation requires commitments of time and other resources that few city residents
                    are willing to contribute, one wonders if the trend can be reversed.
            What might the ideal small city look like in a world that favors large-scale centralized production
                    and provision of services? The core of such a vision would be accepting the reality of the small
                    city as a distinctive city type with problems, issues, and dynamics peculiarly its own. We need to
                    move beyond thinking of small cities as "big small towns" or "outposts of
                    the metropolis." We need to think of small cities as just that, small
                    cities. In Germany such urban places are referred to as kleinstaedte. In very
                    complex ways such small-city places are sustained and cultivated by a very different demographic,
                    economic, social, cultural, and historical context than that necessary for the growth of either
                    small towns or big cities. The vitality of kleinstaedte is supported by aggressive
                    urban planning that restricts land use, taxation policies that encourage development in the center
                    of the city, subsidies that support and stimulate local economic development, and restrictions that
                    limit capital mobility from one city to the next. Though it is difficult to imagine any such
                    policies being implemented in the American political, economic, social, and cultural context, some
                    urban historians have suggested that these efforts be made.
            
            In general, however, what sustains a small city is a rooted local population and a notion of the
                    place as a small, distinctive urban world unto itself with a full range of local institutions,
                    services, and cultural venues that cultivate a strong sense of locality and identity—a
                    sense that, in turn, helps to sustain the city. A small city is neither a small town nor a
                    metropolis. It is a distinctive urban place that strives for an ideal balance between the two.
         
         
         
            A Separate Universe? An Exploratory Effort at Defining the Small City
            
                    John D. Buenker and Theodore Mesmer
                    ∗
                
            In his introductory essay, Timothy Mahoney declares that the small city is "a distinctive
                    urban type with problems, issues, and dynamics peculiarly its own," and that small cities
                    have "been compelled to reinvent themselves continually and to develop more diversified
                    economies able to withstand the vagaries of larger economic forces." By concentrating so
                    resolutely upon either the metropolis or the small town, he asserts, urban historians have generally
                    failed even to search for an ideology for those urban places in between. To begin to understand this
                    distinctive urban form, Mahoney insists, historians must endeavor to place such municipalities
                    squarely within the dynamics of the regional and national economic systems in which they exist and
                    in which they play a functional role.1
            
            What exactly is a "small city"? How, to continue in Mahoney's terms, does
                    it differ from a "town," on the one hand, or a "big city," on
                    the other? Are the differences quantifiable in terms of population, area, density of settlement,
                    ethnic diversity, or gross economic product? Or is the distinction primarily
                    qualitative—felt differences in the quality of life, ambience, or level of
                    sophistication? Are all "small cities" fundamentally the same, or are there
                    reasonably distinct "types," based upon some combination of quantitative and
                    qualitative factors relating not just to economic function, but also to ethnocultural mix or
                    geographic location? In short, is there a putative "separate universe" of small
                    cities on which would-be scholars of that phenomenon can agree to focus their attention?
            One of the problems in finding answers to these questions is the fact that, as Park Dixon Goist has
                    convincingly argued, towns and cities "exist not only as real physical and social entities,
                    but also as images in people's minds," as "a way of thinking about the
                    very entities they are meant to define." Moreover, both of these images are engaged in a
                    "dynamic interaction" with a third concept: "community." In the
                    American imagination, "the town" has long been synonymous 
                  
                     ∗ John D. Buenker is emeritus professor of history,
                            University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            -Parkside, Kenosha. Theodore Mesmer is a retired official of the United Nations
                            and the Organization of American States.
                  
                     1Timothy R. Mahoney, "The Small City in American
                            History," Indiana Magazine of History, XCIX (December 2003), 311,
                            329.
               
                    
                    
                  A MIDWESTERN SMALL TOWN. MAIN STREET, POSEYVILLE, INDIANA, AT NOON, OCTOBER 12, 1945.
                  Courtesy: Indiana University Archives, Charles W. Cushman Collection (P3036)
                with community, while "the city" has frequently been regarded as its
                    antithesis. Although acknowledging that community is "an elusive concept," Goist
                    defines it as the "social interaction and cooperation of people in a specific geographic
                    place (or localized system) who have one or more common ties, including as a minimum a sense of
                    group solidarity and individual significance."2 In short, a community
                    is a place in which individuals have a strong sense of belonging, participation, consequence, and
                    efficacy—the very qualities often missing in modern mass society and culture. For many
                    Americans, literary historian Richard Lingeman has asserted, the small town is the "lost
                    Atlantis of youth," the "archetypal lost home that is nowhere and everywhere,
                    always lost and always there to be found."3 However, there has always
                    been a highly articulate minority that has either bemoaned the oppressive and stultifying nature of
                    small-town life or insisted that the complexity and diversity of city life often produces a far more
                    satisfying sense of community.
            Imagery and value judgments aside, is there any reasonably objective way to differentiate small
                    cities from small towns and big cities? Although the answer obviously has much to do with size and
                    scale, those are often as much a matter of perception as of statistics. 
                  
                     2Park Dixon Goist, From Main Street To State Street:
                                Town, City and Community in America (
                                Port Washington
                            , N.Y., 1977), 3-9.
                  
                     3Richard Lingeman, Small Town America: A Narrative
                                History, 1620-The Present (
                                New York
                            , 1980), 321-63, 483.
               
                     "[W]hether we realize it or not," urban
                    geographer Raymond Murphy has observed, "most of us have in mind a rough minimum size for a
                    city …. [biased chiefly upon 'obvious size,'" a perception
                    that is also essentially relative.4 Indeed, it is not too much to assert that
                    "small town" and "small city" derive their meaning largely in
                    contradistinction to one another—and to the metropolis. As the pioneer sociologist Louis
                    Wirth asserted, "the larger, the more densely populated, and the more heterogeneous a
                    community, the more accentuated the characteristics associated with urbanism will be."5
            
            A more productive approach is to view towns, cities, and metropolises as evolving stages in the
                    ongoing process of urbanization. Sociologist Hope Tisdale observed that urbanization is a
                    "process of becoming," a continuous "process of population
                    concentration," involving both "the multiplication of points of
                    concentration" and increases in the magnitude of individual concentrations. "There
                    is," she wrote, "no clear-cut level of concentration at which a city suddenly
                    springs into being." Nor is there a "clear-cut level of concentration" at
                    which a "small" city becomes "big." "[C]ities are not
                    creatures of spontaneous generation with a life of their own," Tisdale observed,
                    "but gradual accumulations in the grand concourse of a society, made possible by population
                    surpluses, replenished and nurtured by the society as a whole, and as long as they last, an integral
                    part of that society." Cities are the product of a "spiral arrangement"
                    in which technological innovation "produces population surplus and encourages population
                    increase," which, in turn, stimulates yet more technological innovation.6
            
            No matter how large a municipality eventually becomes, it almost certainly began as a tiny settlement
                    dwarfed by its agricultural hinterlands. How much and how fast any settlement grows depends
                    primarily upon its location and its concomitant role in the region's and the
                    nation's economic development. As a general rule, municipalities emerged as agricultural
                    marketplaces for their immediate hinterlands. Most quickly progressed to a second stage as an
                    entrepot for the import and export of goods. Some never advanced further, while others moved on to a
                    third level that incorporated the processing of those local products into finished or semi-finished
                    goods. A somewhat smaller number gradually progressed to a fourth stage: manufacturing the machinery
                    and other paraphernalia necessary to its processing function. Finally, a still smaller number
                    eventually advanced to a fifth stage, in which the extensive and intensive manufacturing of a 
                  
                     4Raymond E. Murphy, The American City: An Urban
                            Geography (
                                New York
                            , 1966), 8-14, esp. p. 10.
                  
                     5Louis Wirth, "Urbanism as a Way of Life," American Journal of Sociology, XLIV (July 1938), 1-9.
                  
                     6Hope Tisdale, "The Process Of Urbanization," Social Forces, XX (March 1942), 311-15.
               
                     growing variety of products became their dominant economic
                    function. Evolution from village to town to city to metropolis also proceeded in five stages that
                    correlated closely with the expansion of a municipality's markets: from local to sectional
                    to regional to national to international. Of course, none of these stages was mutually exclusive;
                    the full-grown metropolis combined substantial elements of all five stages of economic development,
                    even though manufacturing for a national and international market was probably its most
                    distinguishing feature.
            Whatever its eventual size, a municipality's ambition for growth was fueled by two
                    interrelated passions: boosterism and urban rivalry. At some point in its early history, nearly
                    every settlement fancied itself a potential 
                  New
                        York, Chicago
               , or 
                        San Francisco
                    —an ambition all but guaranteed to end in failure, frustration, bitterness,
                    and hostility for most. Nearly all settlements competed fiercely with their neighbors for settlers,
                    businesses, transportation and communication links, government facilities, tourists, and various
                    forms of services and amenities. They tended to measure themselves in
                    comparative—frequently invidious—terms and to rejoice almost as much in their
                    neighbor's setbacks as in their own successes. As the nation's economy became
                    progressively more centralized, both small towns and small cities found themselves, as Mahoney has
                    suggested, caught between aspirations and a sense of loss.7 The more stunted a
                    place's growth, the more likely its residents were to take refuge in nostalgia and
                    alienation.
            The tripartite division—albeit imprecise and subjective—of municipalities into
                    small towns, small cities, and metropolises was largely a product of the years between the end of
                    Reconstruction and World War I. As the nation's population and economy increasingly
                    gravitated toward metropolitan hubs, thousands of small towns became "island
                    communities," serving only secondary or tertiary economic functions and eschewing
                    innovation. Their connections to the mainstream of American life became increasingly tenuous.
                    However, hundreds of other communities—benefited by location, leadership, existing
                    infrastructure, an adaptable labor force, or just plain serendipity—achieved growth
                    patterns that proportionately rivaled those of the region's metropolises. In the process,
                    they took on the characteristics that—incrementally and relatively—separated
                    small cities from small towns. Each eventually became a relatively large, dense, and permanent
                    settlement of sociologically heterogeneous individuals engaged in non-agricultural pursuits.
            As a result, small cities were far more likely than towns to have a diversified economic base, with a
                    substantial number of workers engaged in each of the census bureau's occupational
                    categories. The larger the place, the greater the specialization and proliferation 
                  
                     7Mahoney, "Small City in American History,"
                        317.
               
                     of its economic functions. Except in the South, cities were
                    significantly more likely than towns to have a workforce engaged primarily in manufacturing, rather
                    than in commerce or any other occupational category. They were also generally much more integrated
                    into regional, national, and international networks of production, distribution, transportation, and
                    communication. As secondary magnets for both the massive immigration of 1880-1930 and the migration
                    of African and Latino Americans, small cities were also usually more ethnically complex, with
                    indexes of ethnic diversity rivaling those of the region's metropolises. As Wirth observed
                    in the 1930s, cities in general have been associated historically with a "melting-pot of
                    races, peoples, and cultures, and a most favorable breeding-ground of new biological and cultural
                        hybrids."8 Although cities of between 25,000 and 100,000 frequently
                    had a significantly different morphology than did metropolises, they were just as likely to feature
                    the full hierarchy of social stratification: a small but powerful industrial and financial elite, a
                    commercially based upper middle class, substantial populations of both white- and blue-collar
                    workers, and a sizable "underclass." As a consequence of their economic and ethnic
                    diversity, small cities also tended to be divided into fairly well-defined functional sections:
                    central business districts, secondary commercial zones, factory districts, and residential areas
                    ranging from "gold coasts" to "slums." These various residential
                    enclaves also frequently constituted fairly well-defined "neighborhoods,"
                    providing residents with at least some of the comforts of "community popularly associated
                    with small-town life.
            In their provocative article on "The Nature Of Cities," Chauncy D. Harris and
                    Edward L. Ullman proclaimed that "[e]ach city is unique in detail but resembles others in
                    function and pattern," so that what is learned about one helps in studying another.
                    Specifically, all cities are similar in their "support" and in their
                    "internal structure." The former, which they defined as the functions and services
                    that cities perform for themselves and their tributary areas, could be aggregated under three
                    headings: 1) trade, social, cultural, and political centers; 2) transport foci and freight
                    redistribution nodes; and 3) "specialized-function cities" performing such
                    services as mining, manufacturing, or recreation for large areas. "Most cities,"
                    according to Harris and Ullman, "represent a combination of the three factors, the relative
                    importance of each varying from city to city." They also observed that "[a]lthough
                    the internal pattern of each city is unique in its particular combination of details, most American
                    cities have business, industrial, and residential districts" arranged either in concentric
                    zones, sectors, or multiple nuclei. Nearly all cities, they insisted, feature some combination of
                    all three types of land-use patterns; 
                  
                     8Wirth, "Urbanism as a Way of Life," 10.
               
                     the larger the city the more numerous and specialized are its
                    various zones, sectors, or nuclei.9
            
            As towns transformed into small cities, their residents also acquired more of what Wirth dubbed an
                    "urban personality" and embraced at least some aspects of what he termed
                    "urbanism as a way of life." As municipalities grew, relations among residents
                    became increasingly more secondary, impersonal, formal, transitory, segmented, superficial,
                    utilitarian, predatory, exploitative, competitive, aggrandizing, rational, secular, and
                    representative rather than individual. The economic order was increasingly defined by the cash
                    nexus, division of labor, and specialization of function. Contacts among residents became spatially
                    closer but personally more distant, putting a premium on visual recognition, enhancing their
                    sensitivity to the world of artifacts while removing them ever farther from nature. Socioeconomic
                    and ethnocultural heterogeneity increasingly fragmented individuals, producing cross-cutting
                    identities and allegiances. Exposed to an unprecedented number, variety, and velocity of sensory
                    stimuli, individuals either became more sophisticated and cosmopolitan, or more isolated,
                    bewildered, and anomic. The larger and more densely populated a municipality became, the more it was
                    transformed into a "constellation of personalities engaged in typical forms of collective
                    behavior and subject to characteristic mechanisms of social control."10
                    Since Wirth based his conception of "urban personality" traits predominantly upon
                    observations of life in large metropolitan areas, however, it seems reasonable to assume that cities
                    of less than 100,000 people were considerably less affected. The scale and pace of life in small
                    cities allowed residents to retain at least some of the sense of "community" that
                    supposedly characterized small-town interactions. While small-city residents prided themselves on
                    being significantly more cosmopolitan and sophisticated than their rural or small-town counterparts,
                    they also frequently rejoiced in the belief that they were able to experience life on a far more
                    human and personal scale than were the denizens of the metropolis.
            To explore the small-city frontier, it is first necessary to sketch out a rough map of the terrain.
                    While any such effort is bound to raise at least as many questions as it answers, it seems essential
                    to begin by positing the existence of a small-city universe (where universe is defined as a sphere
                    of thought or activity regarded as a distinct, comprehensive system) framed by a population range
                    and a time span. It is also necessary, as Wirth insisted, that "[a] serviceable definition
                    of urbanism should not only denote the essential characteristics which all cities—at
                    least those in our culture—have in common, 
                  
                     9Chauncy D. Harris and Edward L. Ullman, "The Nature Of
                            Cities," Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social
                                Science, CCXLII (November 1945), 7-17.
                  
                     10Wirth, "Urbanism as a Way of Life," 10-24.
               
                     but should lend itself to the discovery of their
                        variations."11 Although he bases little of his analysis directly on
                    population size or time period, Mahoney asserts elsewhere in this issue that "[f]rom the
                    1880s through the 1950s small cities … grew in population beyond 50,000 and sometimes
                    beyond 100,000 and toward 200,000." Small cities, he writes, were the "creation of
                    two distinct periods within the industrial revolution," with the second period lasting from
                    the late 1880s through the 1930s, when a "number of small towns across the country
                    (especially in the East and Midwest) began to develop into small cities."12
            
            In 1923 Northwestern University sociologist William Louis Bailey, the original investigator of the 
                        Middletown
                     Project, used a range of roughly 25,000 to 100,000 to guide him in compiling his
                    "short list" of eleven cities, which Robert and Helen Lynd later ignored in their
                    selection of 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana as the project site. (Bailey's eleven were Flint, 
                        Kalamazoo
                    , Port Huron, and Jackson, 
                        Michigan
                    ; Canton, 
                        Warren
                    , and Steubenville, 
                  Ohio; South Bend
               , Indiana; Racine and Kenosha, 
                        Wisconsin
                    ; and Rockford, 
                        Illinois
                    .) Moreover, the authors of the 1920 federal census aggregated its data on
                    "urban places" into five population-based categories, one of which included cities
                    ranging from 25,000 to 100,000 (the last category featured cities of over 100,000, including
                    everything from Yonkers, 
                        New York
                    , population 100,176, to 
                        New York
                     City, population 5,620,048.)13
            
            Of course, the universe of cities with a population between 25,000 and 100,000 was a constantly
                    shifting one. In 1909, there were only 178 cities in that cohort; by 1929 there were 276. Between
                    1919 and 1929, 83 cities crossed over the 25,000 threshold, while 22 others moved beyond the 100,000
                    mark. However, the percentage of the nation's population living in cities within that
                    population range remained remarkably stable, rising only from 9.9 to 10.3 percent. So, too, did
                    those cities' share of manufacturing establishments, horsepower, percentage of wage
                    earners, wages, cost of manufacturing materials, product value, and value added by manufacturing.14
            
            Utilizing the 1920 census has two additional advantages. First, that particular compendium is
                    especially rich in data on cities of between 25,000 and 100,000 people, making it possible to do
                    intensive ward-level analysis of statistics on ethnicity, occupation, literacy, educational level,
                    family size, home ownership, and other population characteristics in hundreds of different cities.
                    Second, that census captures statistically the emergence of the United States as a modern, 
                  
                     11
                     Ibid., 6.
                  
                     12Mahoney, "Small City in American History," 319,
                            322.
                  
                     13U.S., Fourteenth Census, 1920: Vol. I, Population, 78-83, 297; Vol. III, Composition And
                                Characteristics Of The Population By States, 66-1140; Vol. IV, Occupations, 369-71; Dwight W. Hoover, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 Revisited, (
                                Muncie
                            , Ind., 1990), 1-4.
                  
                     14U.S., Fourteenth Census, 1920: Vol. I, Census Of Manufactures, 292-305; U.S., Seventeenth Census,
                                1950: Vol. II, Part I, Characteristics Of The Population,
                        48-64.
               
                    
                    
                  VIEW OF STEEL MILLS, GAEY, INDIANA, 1912
                  Courtesy: Calumet Regional Archives
                urban, industrial, multiethnic world power between 1890 and 1920. For the first time,
                    people living in urban places (2,500 and over) had become the majority in the nation. The growth
                    rates of individual cities during that period was little short of phenomenal. In Indiana, for
                    example, East 
                        Chicago
                     grew from 1,255 to 35,967; 
                        Evansville
                     from 50,756 to 85,264; Fort 
                        Wayne
                     from 35,393 to 86,549; 
                        Kokomo
                     from 8,261 to 30,067; 
                        South Bend
                     from 21,819 to 70,963; 
                        Terre Haute
                     from 30,217 to 66,083; and 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 105,436 to 313,194. Gary, a premier site and symbol of the "New
                    Industrialism," exploded from nothingness to 55,378.15
            
            During those crucial years, the total urban population of the United States grew from just over
                    22,000,000 to more than 54,000,000; the percentage of those living in urban areas from 35 to 51; the
                    number of urban places from 1,348 to 2,722; and the number of cities with populations of over
                    100,000 from 28 to 68. This phenomenon was especially pronounced in the North (in both eastern and
                    central regions) and the West. In the South, the percentage urban increased only from 16 to 28.
                    Variously dubbed the "Industrial Heartland," the "Metropolitan
                    District," the "Iron Quadrangle," or the "Metropole,"
                    the area bounded by 
                  Boston, Minneapolis
               /
                  St.
                        Paul, St. Louis
               , and Washington,
                    D.C., contained sixteen of the nation's twenty-five largest cities and nine of its ten
                    largest. Internally, this was the heyday of the "New City," the "New
                    Industrial City," or the "Radial City," a product of the interactive
                    forces of congestion and sprawl engendered 
                  
                     15See also U.S., Fifteenth Census, 1930: Vol. IV,
                                Population: Occupation by States Giving Statistics For Cities Of 25,000 Or
                                More, 100-103.
               
                    
                    
                  A SMALL CITY AND ITS INDUSTRY GROW TOGETHER. DOWNTOWN
                                GARY UNDER CONSTRUCTION, AT THE INTERSECTION OF 5TH AND BROADWAY, 1907.
                  Courtesy: Calumet Regional Archives
                by such technical innovations as structural steel, reinforced concrete, the elevator, the
                    electric trolley, the interurban railway, and—in its early form—the
                        automobile.16
            
            The 1920 census also measured, in considerable detail, the impact of the tremendous industrial spurt
                    produced by the "New Industrialism" of high-speed precision machinery, mass
                    production, the assembly line, "deskilling" of the workforce, the dominance of the
                    bureaucratically organized corporation over entrepreneurs and partnerships, and mass marketing and
                    consumption. Finally, the 1920 census also reflects the cumulative impact of the "New
                    Immigration" that had mushroomed from the mid-1880s on, with the highest ratio of
                    immigrants to total population in the country's history, and with the overwhelming shift in
                    their national origins to southern and eastern Europe and East Asia. It also documented the
                    migration of about 1,000,000 African Americans from the South to northern cities during the first
                    two decades of the century.
            If there is a single word to sum up the characteristics of the 219 cities in the 25,000-to-100,000
                    population bracket in 1920, that word is diversity. At one end of the occupational
                    spectrum, twenty cities had less than 5 percent of their populations engaged in manufacturing, 
                  
                     16U.S., Fourteenth Census, 1920: Vol. I, Number And Distribution Of Inhabitants, 83. The various designations in
                            quotation marks are taken from a sampling of the most widely used textbooks on urban history
                            in the United States. The term "urban sculptor" was coined by David V.
                            Mollenhoff in 
                        
                                    Madison
                                : The Formative Years, (
                        Dubuque, Iowa
                     , 1982),
                            201-17, 273, 358-59.
               
                     while, at the other, twenty-six boasted over 30 percent. The
                    gap between highly residential East 
                  Cleveland,
                            Ohio
               , and heavily industrial Kearney, 
                        New Jersey
                    , in that regard was an astounding .47 to 63.04. The same was generally true of the
                    percentage of foreign-stock people in their total populations, with twenty-seven cities having less
                    than 10 percent, while eleven others listed over 80 percent and fifteen more over 70 percent. The
                    extremes were Winston-
                  Salem, North Carolina
               , with a paltry 1.5 percent and Lawrence, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , with a whopping 86.6 percent.17
            
            Equally mixed were the cities' positions on the Index of Ethnic Diversity (IED) scale as
                    utilized by geographers Kazimierz J. Zanewski and Carol J. Rosen. In their formulation, the IED is a
                    single number, ranging from zero to one, that reflects the degree of ethnic heterogeneity in a given
                    place, so that the presence of an infinite number of ethnic groups of approximately even size would
                    yield an index number of one, while the domination of a single ethnic group within a given area
                    would produce an index number of zero.18 Therefore, such cities as Racine and
                    Kenosha, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and 
                  Duluth, Minnesota
               —each with a multiplicity of ethnic
                    groups present in substantial numbers—had IEDs of around .85, while such cities as
                    Portsmouth, 
                        Ohio
                    , and 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana—with significantly lower proportions of foreign-stock people or
                    with substantially homogeneous immigrant populations—had IEDs of .24 and .15,
                    respectively. The differences are even more striking when the 219 cities are ranked on an Index of
                    Ethnic Diversity for the total white population (IEDtw), in which native-born Americans with
                    native-born parents are treated as a single group, namely "Americans." It is,
                    therefore, not just a measure of the foreign-stock population, but rather of the relative size of
                    the "American" population vis a vis the various foreign-stock
                    peoples. In general, the higher the percentage of "Americans" in the total white
                    population, the smaller the IEDtw.19
            
            Finally, the 219 small cities differed significantly in area and population density per acre. The
                    most compact city among them was West Hoboken, 
                        New Jersey
                    , with 546 acres; the most extensive San Diego, 
                        California
                    , with 50,458. The latter's population was almost twice that of the former, but
                    San Diego had a population density of a mere 1.5 persons per acre, while West Hoboken accommodated
                    over 73 persons per acre. Almost as far apart were 
                        Duluth
                    , with 2.5 persons per acre, and West 
                  New
                        York, New Jersey
               , with just over 50
                    people 
                  
                     17U.S., Fourteenth Census, 1920: Vol. I, Number And Distribution Of Inhabitants, 297.
                  
                     18An ethnic group consists of the foreign-born of a particular
                            national origin plus their American-born children. Collectively, these two generations are
                            also referred to as the "foreign stock" of a particular national group.
                            Kazimierz J. Zanewski and Carol J. Rosen, The Atlas of Ethnic Diversity in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                     , (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1998), 187.
                  
                     19This graph and the IEDtw it represents were calculated and
                            constructed by Theodore Mesmer based upon an analysis of data from the Fourteenth Census,
                            1920.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE I
               
                     per acre. Nationally, the norm for cities of 50,000 to 100,000
                    was 7.6 persons per acre; for cities of 30,000-50,000 it was 6.4.20 It should be
                    noted, however, that this statistic alone does not necessarily measure actual population
                    concentrations within city limits. In cities with extensive acreage, such as San Diego or 
                        Duluth
                    , much of the land was most likely undeveloped and relatively uninhabited as of the
                    1920s. The actual population was probably much more concentrated in already developed areas within
                    the city limits.
            Although the 219 cities spanned such tremendous ranges on the scales of manufacturing employment,
                    ethnic diversity, and density of settlement, it is still possible to aggregate them into a number of
                    "types" or "kinds" of small cities, based largely upon economic
                    function, ethnic makeup, and geographic location. As Figure I illustrates, several fairly definite
                    patterns emerge when the 219 cities are arrayed on a matrix with a vertical axis denoting percentage
                    of the total population engaged in manufacturing and a horizontal axis denoting the Index of Ethnic
                    Diversification. The clearest pattern is the one that appears in the upper right-hand corner of the
                    matrix, where the highest scores on both criteria result in a cluster of some 45 to 75 cities, most
                    of which are located in lower 
                        New England
                     and the Middle Atlantic and Great Lakes states.
            The top forty-five cities in this cohort ranged from 24 to 38 percent in manufacturing employment,
                    with IEDtws of between .65 and .90. The remaining thirty municipalities ranged from 18 to 24 percent
                    in manufacturing employment and from .45 to .65 in IEdtws. Nearly all of these also had a
                    correspondingly low percentage of workers engaged in domestic service. Although we initially dubbed
                    these cities ethnic factory towns, further reflection revealed an important
                    internal distinction based upon their proximity to a major metropolitan area. In Indiana, for
                    example, East 
                        Chicago
                    , Gary, and 
                        Hammond
                     were an integral part of the 
                        Chicago
                     metropolitan area, while Anderson, 
                        Evansville
                    , Fort 
                  Wayne, Kokomo, Muncie, Richmond, South Bend
               , and 
                        Terre Haute
                     were obviously outside the orbit of any metropolis. Even by the 1920s, such small
                    cities as Cicero and Joliet, 
                        Illinois
                    ; Hamtramck and Flint, 
                        Michigan
                    ; and West Allis, Cudahy, and South Milwaukee, 
                        Wisconsin
                     lay within the gravitational pull of 
                  Chicago, Detroit
               , and Milwaukee,
                    respectively, while Peoria, Rockford, 
                        Decatur
                    , and Moline-
                  Rock Island, Illinois
               ; Bay City, Saginaw, Battle Creek, and
                            
                  Kalamazoo, Michigan
               ; and Green Bay, La Crosse, 
                        Oshkosh
                    , and Sheboygan, 
                        Wisconsin
                     did not. Indeed, West Allis, Cudahy, and South Milwaukee were founded as industrial suburbs in the early twentieth century; the cities literally grew up around the
                    factories that had been relocated from Milwaukee. While all of these cities manifested statistical
                    profiles similar to those of ethnic factory towns, it still 
                  
                     20U.S., Fourteenth Census, 1920: Vol. VI, Financial Statistics Of Cities Having A Population Of Over 30,000,
                        35-38.
               
                     seems reasonable to assume that the nature of their economic
                    and social orders, as well as the array and quality of their services and amenities, varied
                    significantly, depending upon whether or not they were an integral part of a metropolitan area.21
            
            In his classic essay "Urbanism As A Way Of Life," Wirth argued that smaller
                    communities within the gravitational pull of a "big city" have a greater claim to
                    "urban-ness" than do larger communities within a "predominantly
                    rural" environment. To test the validity of that pronouncement, however, it will be
                    necessary to agree upon some reasonably objective and consistent standards of measurement on which
                    to compare a cohort (i.e., a group) of freestanding or independent cities with a sample of suburban
                    or satellite communities.22
            
            Even so, the putative dividing line between ethnic factory towns and industrial suburbs was neither
                    clear nor absolute. Mere spatial distance from the central city was not, by itself, an infallible
                    indicator. We will never be able to agree upon some magic number of ensuing miles that will
                    differentiate one from the other. Moreover, the relationship among small cities, suburbs, and
                    metropolises is a constantly shifting one, largely determined by the evolving technology of
                    transportation and communication, and by resultant patterns of suburban sprawl. The distinction
                    between independent city and suburb also has a psychological element that rests, to a significant
                    degree, in the eye of the beholder.
            In sharp contrast to the position of ethnic factory towns and industrial suburbs on our matrix
                    (Figure I) are the forty-five cities in the lower left-hand quadrant, which have well under 18
                    percent of their populations engaged in manufacturing and IEDtws ranging only from .05 to .45.
                    Thirty-five of these cities were located in the eleven states of the "Old
                    Confederacy," while the remaining ten were located in the "Border States"
                    that remained within the Union during the Civil War. All forty-five cities are characterized by a
                    much greater reliance upon domestic servants and by a sizeable "Negro" population,
                    both of which clearly mark them off from most northern cities. These southern market
                        towns had largely escaped the impact of the massive and rapid industrialization,
                    urbanization, and immigration that had transformed most of the rest of the country since the end of
                    Reconstruction. Their predominance graphically illustrates one of the important ways in which the
                    South remained as different from the rest of the nation in 1920 as it had been in 1860. That
                    difference was even more apparent in the distribution of employment categories in the 1930 census of
                        occupations.23
            
            
               
                  21This matrix was designed by Theodore Mesmer based upon his analysis of
                        data from the Fourteenth Census, 1920.
               
                  22Wirth, "Urbanism as a Way of Life," 1-10.
               
                  23See note #21. See also U.S., Fifteenth Census, 1930:
                            Population, Vol. IV, Occupations By States: Reports By States Giving
                            Statistics For Cities Of 25,000 Or More, 100-103.
            
            
            Similar to the southern market towns in almost every aspect save geographical location and percentage
                    of African Americans were sixty-plus small cities whose relatively small percentages of
                    manufacturing workers and low IEDtws placed them in the lower right hand quadrant of the matrix. Of
                    these, thirteen were located in 
                        California
                    , Washington, 
                  Utah, Kansas, Oklahoma
               , and 
                        Arizona
                    ; twenty-six in 
                        Iowa
                     and the southern portions of Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                    ; and thirty-one in 
                  Maine, Massachusetts, New
                        Jersey
               , Pennsylvania, 
                  New
                        Jersey, New York, Michigan
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    .24 Most had as many or more people engaged in trade as in
                    manufacturing, making them far more like market towns than factory towns. In terms of the five-stage
                    model of economic development posited earlier in this essay, most of these cities had progressed
                    into the third stage of processing the extractive products of their hinterlands or, at most, into
                    the beginnings of the fourth stage, where they manufactured some of their own processing machinery
                    and paraphernalia.
            Combining those occupational distribution data with a knowledge of the location and reputations of
                    the remaining one hundred or so small cities yielded another half-dozen or so categories. One of
                    these included such affluent bedroom suburbs as 
                  Evanston, Illinois
               ;
                    Montclair, 
                        New Jersey
                    ; and Brookline, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , characterized by a relatively low level of manufacturing employment, considerably less
                    ethnic diversity than that in industrial suburbs or ethnic factory towns, and a substantially
                    greater number of people engaged in domestic service. These ten or so locales also tended to have
                    well-above-average contingents of residents in professional or clerical occupations. A somewhat
                    smaller number might best be characterized as university centers, including
                            
                  Evanston; Ann
                        Arbor, Michigan
               ; Berkeley,
                            
                  California; Madison, Wisconsin
               ; and
                    Lincoln, 
                        Nebraska
                    . The last two also fit nicely into another possible category, government
                        seats, along with Lansing, 
                  Michigan;
                            Harrisburg
               , Pennsylvania;
                            
                  Columbia, South
                            Carolina
               ; and 
                  Sacramento, California
               . Both
                    university centers and government seats were characterized by unusually high levels of professional,
                    public service, clerical, and domestic employment, and correspondingly lower levels of manufacturing
                    employment and ethnic diversity. A somewhat smaller subset, including Atlantic City,
                            
                  New Jersey; Colorado
                Springs; and a few 
                        Florida
                     municipalities, seemed to share a common identity as tourist meccas,
                    with high numbers of people engaged in trade, domestic service, and transportation. Several other
                    cities, such as 
                        Duluth
                    /Superior; Hoboken, 
                        New Jersey
                    ; Council Bluffs, 
                        Iowa
                    ; Altoona, Pennsylvania; 
                  Galesburg,
                            Illinois
               ; and Chattanooga, 
                        Tennessee
                     might best be designated as transportation hubs, given their
                    unusually high rates of employment in that occupational category. The uniquely high percentage of
                    public service 
                  
                     24See note 21.
               
                    
                    
                  COMMENCEMENT DAY, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, ANN ARBOR, 1903
                  Courtesy: Library of Congress
                workers in such cities as 
                        Newport
                    , Rhode Island; and New 
                  London, Connecticut
                stemmed largely from their functions
                    as military training bases. Finally, a very small number of cities, such as
                    Pasadena, 
                        California
                    ; and Orlando, St. Petersburg, and West Palm Beach, 
                        Florida
                    , already derived a major portion of their identity and function from their role as retirement sites.25
               
            
            The eleven "types" of small city discussed above are listed in Table I. These are
                    not the only taxonomies possible, however. When we had almost completed our own work, the authors
                    discovered two mid-twentieth-century census monographs also dealing with the taxonomy of small
                    cities. We have designated eleven types of the small city; both of the monographs suggest seven.
                    These works are not only useful because they allow us to compare typologies. The authors of the
                    monographs closely examine several demographic, geographic, and economic factors which go into
                    distinguishing a small city from a small town and from a metropolis. And what is left out of these
                    early studies is as interesting as what is included. Looking back at work done from the 1930s
                    through the 1950s reveals important census statistics (i.e., ethnic and religious identifications)
                    overlooked by an earlier generation of urban scholars.
            The first of these monographs is Social Characteristics Of Cities: A Basis for New
                        Interpretations of the Role of the City in American Life by William F. Ogburn. Based
                    primarily upon data derived from the 1930 census, Ogburn concluded that a wide variety of measurable
                        
                  
                            25
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                    
                    
                  TABLE I Three Typologies of Small Cities
                  
                     
                                Buenker and Mesmer
                            
                     
                                Ogburn
                            
                     
                                Duncan and Reiss
                            
                  
                  
                     Ethnic factory towns
                     Factory towns
                     Manufacturing
                  
                  
                     Industrial suburbs
                     Mining towns
                     
                  
                  
                     Southern market towns
                     Trading centers
                     Trade
                  
                  
                     3rd and 4th stage market towns
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Bedroom suburbs
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     University centers
                     College towns
                     Higher education
                  
                  
                     Government seats
                     
                     Public administration
                  
                  
                     Tourist meccas
                     Pleasure resorts
                     Entertainment and recreation
                  
                  
                     Transportation hubs
                     Transportation centers
                     Transportation
                  
                  
                     Military training bases
                     
                     Military
                  
                  
                     Retirement sites
                     Health resorts
                     
                  
                characteristics (including crime rates, church membership, number of recreational
                    facilities and schools, taxes, death and marriage rates, family size, number of suicides, proportion
                    of immigrants and their children, percentage of persons engaged in manufacturing, number of artists,
                    rents, and wages) varied according to four criteria: 1) community size; 2) regional and metropolitan
                    location; 3) rates of growth and decline; and 4) functional specialization. He found that, in
                    general, cities of over 100,000 people had a higher percentage of middle-aged population, lower
                    birth and death rates, a higher proportion of women and foreign-stock peoples, higher income levels,
                    and a higher cost of living than did those with populations of between 25,000 and 100,000. The
                    latter, however, had a slightly higher percentage of the workforce engaged in manufacturing, lower
                    crime rates, and greater incidence of church membership.26
            
            Ogburn then posited the existence of seven types of cities classified primarily by economic function:
                    trading centers, factory towns, transportation centers, mining towns, pleasure resorts, health
                    resorts, and college towns. In delineating each category, Ogburn compared and contrasted cities on a
                    wide range of other demographic features, including ethnic composition, population size, income and
                    educational levels, age and sex ratios, property ownership, marital status, and cost of living. On
                    that basis, he concluded that the "average city" in 1930 had a population of
                    between 25,000 and 100,000, with a workforce that consisted of 38 percent in manufacturing, 16
                    percent in trade, 10 percent in transportation, 12 percent in personal services, 8 percent in the
                    professions, and 2 percent in public service.27
            
            
               
                  26William F. Ogburn, Social Characteristics Of Cities: A
                            Basis for New Interpretations of the Role of the City in American Life (
                            Chicago
                        , 1937), 1-5.
               
                  27
                  Ibid., 36-46.
            
            
            Of special interest is Ogburn's comparisons of "satellite" to
                    "independent" cities, "wealthy" to
                    "industrial" suburbs, and "increasing" to
                    "decreasing" cities. Satellite cities tended to have more people engaged in
                    clerical occupations, a higher proportion of married persons, larger families, more social services,
                    higher taxes, more foreign-stock residents, and a larger percentage of middle-aged persons than did
                    independent cities. "Wealthy" (primarily residential) suburbs had a minimum of
                    manufacturing and a maximum of professional services, fewer foreign-stock residents, more elderly
                    people, and higher educational levels than did industrial suburbs. After comparing twenty cities
                    that had declined in population during the 1920s with twenty others that had increased in
                    population, Ogburn attributed the distinction to significant differences in socioeconomic
                    opportunity and selective migration.28
            
            Documenting their analysis with data from the 1950 census, Otis Dudley Duncan and Albert J. Reiss
                    also divided cities into seven types: manufacturing, trade, higher education, public administration,
                    transportation, military, and entertainment and recreation. They based these categories upon five
                    "independent variables" or "determinants of difference":
                    population size, spatial organization, community growth and decline, functional specialization, and
                    regional location. Duncan and Reiss found that size was largely determined by the intersection of
                    selective migration, family dynamics, and economic operations. They also concluded that size
                    correlated positively with the proportion of people in white-collar occupations, and that the amount
                    of value added by manufacturing per capita was nearly one-third higher in cities of under 100,000
                    than it was for those over that figure, indicating that ethnic factory towns may well have played a
                    disproportionately large role in the rise of the United States to industrial supremacy. The authors
                    also stressed the importance of increasing interdependence as an "advancing industrial
                    economy" evolves into a "metropolitan community," and as the residents of
                    central cities, suburbs, and independent cities take on increasingly different characteristics.
                    Although acknowledging that they were unable to pinpoint the conditions that foster growth, to
                    describe the growth process, to identify the consequences of growth or decline, or to assess the
                    social costs and dislocations hidden by positive growth statistics, they stressed the importance of
                    an attitude of "buoyancy" that permeated expanding communities. Since no city is
                    completely self-sufficient, they argued, growing communities become increasingly involved in complex
                    systems for the import and export of goods and services, with the latter reflecting their
                    "functional specializations." The greatest differences existed between cities
                    specializing in "manufacturing" and those designated as "trade
                    centers," with 88.7 
                  
                     28
                     Ibid., 51-65.
               
                     percent of the former in the northeastern and midwestern states
                    and 76.7 percent of the latter in the South and West.29
            
            Duncan and Reiss went to considerable lengths to investigate whether identifiable social and economic
                    characteristics can be associated with city size or with one or another category of functional
                    specialization. Among the characteristics that correlated positively with an increase in city size
                    were the proportion of immigrants and African Americans, the percentage of single, widowed, and
                    divorced people, average years of education, and median cash income. On the other hand, the
                    composition of the workforce showed little systematic variation by city size, while residential
                    mobility decreased as the city grew. They also discovered significant differences in the nature of
                    employment and degree of economic opportunity between manufacturing and non-manufacturing centers,
                    with the latter frequently having a higher percentage of workers engaged in higher education, public
                    administration, entertainment, recreation, and hospitality. While manufacturing centers had somewhat
                    higher median incomes, they also tended to have fewer white-collar workers and lower overall
                    socioeconomic levels. They also generally ranked low in trade and in "linkages" to
                    other categories of specialization—such as higher education, recreation, and
                    entertainment—while trade centers often showed exactly the opposite profile.30
            
            Equally suggestive are the differences in socioeconomic profiles among the various minor types of
                    specialization identified by Duncan and Reiss. College communities and public administration centers
                    were distinguished from others of comparable size and location by their higher socioeconomic level,
                    greater percentage of white-collar and private household and service workers, and somewhat greater
                    residential mobility. Transportation hubs ranked lower in educational level, had an above-average
                    proportion of males in the population and in the workforce, and had relatively few white-collar
                        workers.31 In brief, the specialized function of a city says much about its
                    level of educational attainment, the tenure and status of its housing, and its overall socioeconomic
                    composition.
            One of the most potentially productive strategies for differentiating small cities from towns and big
                    cities, suburbs from independent cities, and places with different functional specializations from
                    one another is to inventory the array and quality of their services and amenities. In an article
                    based upon 1940 census data entitled "Optimum Size of Cities," Otis Dudley Duncan
                    concluded that most of the advantages in that regard lay with the residents of small- to
                    medium-sized cities. With respect to transportation, he found that people in 
                  
                     29Otis Dudley Duncan and Albert J. Reiss, Jr., Social
                                Characteristics Of Urban and Rural Communities, 1950 (
                                New York
                            , 1956), 1-18.
                  
                     30
                     Ibid., 19-108.
                  
                     31
                     Ibid., 215-370.
               
                     cities of over 100,000 spent "more than four times as
                    much" on mass transit, so that "the unequivocal indication is that the advantages
                    of time, expenditure, and convenience all lie with the moderate sized or small city." So
                    far as health care was concerned, he found that the cut-off point for an adequate range of
                    specialized physicians was 50,000 residents. Although acknowledging that his conclusion was somewhat
                    subjective, Duncan nevertheless asserted that "perhaps a fair case could be made for the
                    greater safety of the small or medium sized city, on the average." After comparing the
                    correlation between per capita expenditures and services rendered in fourteen different categories,
                    including crime prevention, traffic control, fire protection, and public health measures, he
                    concluded that although the residents of large cities paid more, they "apparently enjoy no
                    better situation than small." Positing the minimum population base for a business school at
                    25,000, for a junior college, college, or university at 100,000, and for accredited professional
                    schools at 500,000, Duncan proclaimed that educational levels were not much higher in big cities
                    despite slightly higher levels of facilities. Especially provocative were his estimates of the
                    minimum populations necessary to sustain various cultural amenities: 100,000 for zoos, symphony
                    orchestras, and historical, art, and science museums; 250,000 for an opera company; 10,000 for a
                    radio station; 5,000 for a daily newspaper; and 500,000 for a television station.32
            
            Although acknowledging that cities with populations as small as 2,500 regularly had public libraries,
                    Duncan nonetheless argued that it took at least 50,000 to 75,000 people to sustain a library that
                    met "desirable minimum professional standards." Noting that the professional
                    recommendation for urban parks was one acre per 1,000 people, he estimated that only about 20
                    percent of cities between 50,000 and 250,000 and none of those over the latter figure met that
                    benchmark. Measured by parks per capita, Duncan added, accessibility was 4 per 10,000 in cities of
                    between 25,000 and 50,000 and only 1 per 10,000 in those of over 1,000,000 residents. "The
                    optimum population for parks," he observed, was "clearly in the middle size range
                    of cities." With regard to retail shopping facilities, he posited that there was not much
                    real difference between large and small cities, except in style and specialty shops. Of the 65 types
                    of retail outlets accounted by the census bureau, only 3 required a population base of 50,000 or
                    more.
            So far as religious variety was concerned, Duncan opined that it took a population of only 30,000 to
                    support a congregation of each of the country's twenty largest denominations. Similarly, it
                    required a critical mass of only 25,000 to 50,000 to sustain the full range of 
                  
                     32Otis Dudley Duncan, "Optimum Size Of Cities," in
                                Reader in Urban Sociology, eds. Paul K. Hatt and Albert J. Reiss, Jr.
                            (Glencoe, Ill., 1951), 635-41.
               
                     voluntary civic associations, such as Rotary, Elks, Lions, Boy
                    and Girl Scouts, and YMCAs and YWCAs. With regard to adequate housing, Duncan proclaimed that
                    "both ownership and rental are easier propositions in the smaller centers," where
                    dwellings were better equipped and maintained, and more likely to be occupied by single families.33
            
            Largely complementing Duncan's estimations were those put forth by Ogburn in his 1937
                    monograph. Although acknowledging that larger cities spend more per capita on corrections and
                    charities than do smaller cities, he cautioned that the difference may be due, in large measure, to
                    the fact that families, private charities, and churches bear more of that burden in those
                    municipalities. Noting that cities of over 1,000,000 people spend three times as much on health
                    care, Ogburn wryly opined that "[i]t is doubtful if a person in the large city is three
                    times as healthy as a person in the small one." On education, he observed that
                    "[i]f the number of pupils per teacher be used as a criterion, it would appear that the
                    smaller cities have the better schools." After examining the cost of libraries, criminal
                    justice programs, and public utilities, Ogburn concluded that the "cost of city government
                    per citizen is about twice as great in cities of over a million as in cities from 30,000 to
                    50,000," but that the former generally provided more and better services and amenities.34
            
            Determining whatever correlation may exist between the array and quality of services and amenities,
                    on the one hand, and geographical location and functional specialization, on the other, is even more
                    problematic. It seems reasonable to hypothesize that independent cities might feature a more
                    comprehensive array within their municipal boundaries out of necessity. Suburbs and satellite
                    cities, by contrast, might easily reap the same benefits from services and amenities physically
                    located in other municipalities within the same metropolitan area. However, independent cities in
                    relatively isolated areas might also lack access to the capital and other resources necessary to
                    establish and sustain those desiderata. By this estimate, cities in the South and West during the
                    1920s probably still lagged behind their counterparts in the Northeast and Midwest. So far as
                    functional specialization is concerned, it seems equally reasonable to assume that the array and
                    quality of services and amenities depends, in large measure, upon the income and occupational and
                    educational levels of a city's most influential citizens. A higher percentage of
                    professionals and managers living in college towns, commercial centers, seats of government,
                    recreational and entertainment centers, tourist meccas, or retirement sites might very well result
                    in a relatively high level of cultural amenities, while their relative scarcity in manufacturing
                        
                  
                     33
                     Ibid., 641-44.
                  
                     34Ogburn, Social Characteristics Of Cities,
                        17-21.
               
                     centers and transportation hubs might just as likely act as
                    inhibiting factors.35
            
            While these two census monographs greatly enhanced our understanding of the importance of functional
                    diversity and location in defining and differentiating cities, they were almost completely silent on
                    another factor that was of at least equal importance: cities' ethnocultural makeup.
                    Although the authors made passing references to the percentage of foreign-born, foreign-stock, and
                    "Negro" residents as a "dependent variable," they failed to ask
                    if and how cities with large proportions of such people differed from those with little or none. Nor
                    did they give any indication that the particular ethnic and religious makeup of a city made any
                    significant difference. Was it dominated by one or two groups or inhabited by several of
                    approximately equal size and influence? Did it make any difference if the dominant group were Irish,
                    German, Swedish, Italian, or Polish, or if it were Catholic, Jewish, Lutheran, Baptist, or Mormon?
                    Since we know that the ethnic and religious makeup of a city's population profoundly
                    affects everything from architecture to political affiliation and behavior, and from the nature of
                    associational life to entertainment preferences, it should be obvious that two cities with almost
                    identical statistical profiles, functional specializations, and locations may well have a
                    substantially different look and feel. Moreover, the degree and manner in which ethnic and religious
                    groups in small cities interact with mainstream society and culture, and with each other, may prove
                    to be one of the most important criteria for differentiating them from towns and metropolises.
            Incorporating considerations of ethnic and religious makeup into a definition of small cities should
                    also help to remind scholars that all communities have their own unique
                    "ambience." Cities with almost identical statistical profiles often have quite
                    different atmospheres and reputations. As Duncan and Reiss argued, some "are popularly
                    regarded as progressive, exciting, or friendly; others as dull, tradition-bound, or
                    inhospitable," and it is the task of the social scientist to recognize the
                    "common-sense observation of intercommunity variation," to discern the factors
                    that produce those variations, and to describe them as systematically as possible.36 To do so effectively, it is important to "ground truth" the data gained
                    from censuses, city directories, property tax rolls, Sanborn insurance maps, naturalization records,
                    and other official documents by a variety of "non-scientific" methods: reading
                    diaries, letters, and memoirs of earlier residents; studying oral histories, novels, poems, short
                    stories and other works of literature set in that community; and spending a good deal of time just
                    walking around and observing the lay of the land.
            
               
                  35
                  Ibid., 28-35.
               
                  36Duncan and Reiss, Social Characteristics Of Urban And Rural
                            Communities, 1, 58-66; Ogburn, Social Characteristics of Cities, 3-4,
                        29-31.
            
            
            Based upon this preliminary reconnaissance, which draws on our own research and the earlier work of
                    Ogburn, Duncan, and Reiss, it seems clear that the most productive starting point to seek an
                    ideology "for those urban places in between the small town and the metropolis" is
                    in the ethnic factory towns and industrial suburbs of the early twentieth century. Although lower 
                        New England
                     and the Middle Atlantic states were home to many of these municipalities, their
                    greatest concentration was in the upper Midwest-Great Lakes region. If urbanization is an ongoing
                    "process of population concentration"37 inextricably
                    intertwined with massive and rapid industrialization and immigration, then these seventy-five or so
                    cities were among its most notable products. In Indiana the industrial suburbs of Gary, 
                        Hammond
                    , and East 
                        Chicago
                     were integral components of both the 
                        Chicago
                     metropolitan area and the Great Lakes industrial belt. As Figure I effectively
                    demonstrates, they, along with Fort 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        South Bend
                    , clearly qualified as ethnic factory towns, while 
                  Evansville, Terre Haute, Kokomo, Richmond, Muncie
               , and Anderson occupied a middle ground between
                    ethnic factory towns and southern market towns. Unlike those settlements that remained small towns,
                    ethnic factory towns and industrial suburbs were part and parcel of those gigantic transformative
                    forces, both in their economic development and in their ethnocultural interaction. Unlike other
                    cities in the 25,000 to 100,000 population range, ethnic factory towns and industrial suburbs were
                    virtual microcosms of the industrial metropolises that have monopolized the lion's share of
                    the attention of urban historians. As such, they are important and representative enough to enhance
                    our understanding of the processes through which the United States emerged as an urban, industrial,
                    multiethnic world power during the century after the Civil War, but they are also of a size and
                    scale facilitative of intensive research. Moreover, there is enough impressionistic evidence to
                    suggest that ethnic factory towns and industrial suburbs in Indiana and elsewhere may well have
                    played a particularly crucial role in technological innovation, in value added by manufacturing, and
                    in the adaptive process experienced by millions of immigrants and other newcomers to urban life. In
                    short, ethnic factory towns and industrial suburbs—especially those in the upper
                    Midwest—were almost certainly more integral to the emergence of modern America than we
                    have previously realized.
            
               
                  37Mahoney, "Small City in American History," 313, 315;
                        Tisdale, "Process Of Urbanization," 311.
            
         
         
         
            "A Sturdy Core of Thinking, Fact Seeking Citizens": The Open Forum Movement and
                    Public Learning in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Hammond
                    , Indiana, in the 1920s
            
                    Arthur S. Meyers
                    ∗
                
            In Sinclair Lewis's fictional Zenith, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1920, George Babbitt complained to his wife that their daughter and her beau were
                    "trudging off to lectures by authors and Hindu philosophers and Swedish
                    lieutenants." Lewis was describing an actual phenomenon taking place in several hundred
                    industrial cities, including at least four in Indiana. The Open Forum lecture movement was
                    remarkable: a locally planned, non-partisan, non-sectarian initiative in public learning, reaching
                    thousands of people around the country. Expanding beyond the Chautauqua lecture movement in topics
                    and locale, it brought a wide range of people together to discuss the vital concerns and
                    intellectual advances of the day and to consider the core beliefs and values in their lives.1
            
            Although the Open Forum has faded from history, it was a model of social commitment, public learning,
                    and freedom of speech that took root not only in metropolitan areas but also in small cities in the
                    Midwest. The story of the movement in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Hammond
                     in the 1920s provides fresh insight into Indiana's history, revealing a
                    previously unknown interest in the ideas of liberal reformers and support for public learning, and
                    documenting the social activism of a minister and rabbi. It also suggests that other smaller urban
                    communities of the Midwest were less provincial and more politically varied than most accounts of
                    the era suggest.
            The Open Forum is best understood in both religious and political terms. Inspired by the Social
                    Gospel vision to "re-order" society, it sought to bridge differences of class,
                    race, and ethnicity. The congregations and civic groups that sponsored Open Forums brought a wide
                        
                  
                     ∗ Arthur S. Meyers is director of the Russell Library,
                                    
                        Middletown, Connecticut
                     , and author of previous articles on the
                            Open Forum movement.
                  
                     1Sinclair Lewis, Babbitt (
                                New York
                            , 1922), 230-31. The national Open Forum movement is not included in standard
                            works on the Progressive Era, Social Gospel, or public learning. For example, Kevin Mattson
                            sets Ford Hall Forum, where the movement began in 
                                Boston
                             in 1908, in the civic context of public lectures but does not look beyond the
                            city; Kevin Mattson, Creating a Democratic Public: The Struggle for Urban
                                Participatory Democracy During the Progressive Era (University Park, Penn., 1998),
                            41-47. See also Paula M. Kane, Separatism and Subculture: 
                                    Boston
                                 Catholicism, 1900–1920 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1994), 22-38; Arthur S. Meyers, "A Bridge to the Future: From
                            the 
                                Boston
                             Baptist Social Union to the Beth El Open Forum," American
                                Baptist Quarterly, XIV (September 1995), 225-40.
               
                     range of new ideas to the public, creating learning
                    opportunities and deliberative democracy outside of traditional settings. When the movement spread
                    to Indiana during the post-World War I era, its leaders worked to overcome the increasingly
                    prevalent religious apathy and political conservatism of the period.2
            
            George W. Coleman, a Baptist lay leader in 
                        Boston
                    , founded the movement in 1908. Combining his strong commitment to the Social Gospel and
                    democratic discussion with great advertising skill, he quickly spread the model from Ford Hall in 
                        Boston
                     into 
                        New England
                    . Through enthusiastic writings in an array of publications and hundreds of speeches, he
                    carried the message to the nation. In 1920, the Open Forum came to Indiana.3
            
            The Hoosier state at the time hardly seemed fertile ground for a movement devoted to an open platform
                    that often included liberal values. The state's largely native-born, Protestant population
                    avoided extremes and held strongly to past traditions. The period saw a hardening pattern of
                    residential segregation based on race, a declining percentage of foreign-born residents, and
                    sedition laws intended to stifle radical voices. A growing urban and declining rural population,
                    however, produced new tensions and conflicts. The state's economy had become increasingly
                    industrial, and, though unions were weak, labor disturbances were frequent. Many Hoosiers threatened
                    by these changes joined the Ku Klux Klan. The organization was strongest in areas most affected by
                    industrial development, but in small towns and rural areas, too, many farmers as well as
                    "merchants, small businessmen, and Protestant ministers donned the white robe and
                    hood." One Indiana Klanswoman recalled that "everyone was in the Klan,"
                    but there were, of course, many native-born white Protestants who did not join, and the movement, by
                    definition, shut out Hoosiers who were Catholic, Jewish, or African American. This exclusion 
                  
                     2Robert T. Handy, "The American Religious Depression,
                            1924–1935," Church History, XXIX (March 1960), 13;
                            Harold E. Steams, ed., Civilization in the United States; An Inquiry By Thirty
                                Americans (
                                New York
                            , 1922; reprint, 
                                Westport
                            , Conn., 1971), v-vii; Walter Lippmann, "The Causes of Political
                            Indifference To-day," Atlantic Monthly (February 1927), 263; John
                            Dewey, The Public and its Problems (
                                New York
                            , 1927; reprint, 
                                Denver
                            , Colo., 1964), 166-218; Arthur S. Meyers, "'The Striking of
                            Mind Upon Mind': The Open Forum and the Social Gospel," Baptist History and Heritage, XXXV (Spring 2000), 20-36.
                  
                     3"Report of President to Annual Meeting of Open Forum
                            National Council," Chautauqua, 
                                New York
                            , August 21, 1920, Ford Hall Forum Papers (
                                Boston
                             Public Library); George W. Coleman Alpha File, Ford Hall Forum Scrapbooks, Open
                            Forum Movement, #6 (1916–1918) (American Baptist-Samuel Colgate Historical
                            Library, American Baptist Historical Society, 
                        Rochester, New York
                     ).
                            The Ford Hall Forum and Open Forum Scrapbooks held in 
                        Rochester, New
                            York
                     , as noted above, date from 1908 until 1927 in nine volumes.
                            Program brochures of the 
                                Hammond
                             series begin with "Beth-El Social Center Open Forum Course, First
                            Season Program, 1924–1925," and continue, with some name changes,
                            through 1943. Subsequent references to these three sets of papers will be designated as
                            Forum Papers, 
                                Rochester
                            ; Forum Papers, 
                                Boston
                            ; and Forum Papers, 
                                Hammond
                            .
               
                     created moments of irony, as when a Jewish merchant in 
                        Terre Haute
                     recognized some parading Klan members by the shoes they had purchased from his
                        store.4
            
            The Open Forum movement nevertheless made headway in Indiana. A list of states where Forum series
                    were held in 1926 showed more than forty cities and towns in the Midwest, including two in Indiana,
                    most likely 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Hammond
                    . 
                        Indianapolis
                     began a series that year with "Open Forum" in the title, and 
                        Evansville
                     adopted the model, with a different title, a year later. Other lecture series were held
                    in the state, just before and after the war, for brief periods, but the Forums remained popular. A
                    woman who attended the 
                        Hammond
                     programs during the 1930s looked back more than fifty years later at "the most
                    marvelous program that ever existed."5
            
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                     seemed in some ways an unlikely setting for a Forum series. The city of 66,000, in the
                    west-central part of the state, had a largely native-born white population and was emerging from a
                    difficult period in which labor militancy, machine politics, corruption, and constant investigations
                    had shaped the city's image. A bitter 1902 street railway strike and boycott was followed
                    in the 1910s by larger, longer, more militant strikes. Civic corruption was rampant, with 116
                    officials, including the Mayor, found guilty of various offenses. An 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaper described 
                        Terre Haute
                    's politics as "a corrupt and rotten system," one that was
                    bringing the city "to the verge of anarchy."6
            
            But 
                        Terre Haute
                     also had, in the words of one community archivist, "a rich history of radical
                    thought juxtaposed with more mainstream conservative business influences." The city had a
                    long history of clubs established for the "improvement of the mind and 
                  
                     4Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The
                                Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880-1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 127, 323-442; James H. Madison, Indiana Through Tradition
                                and Change: A History of the Hoosier State and Its People, 1920–1945 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982), 6-57, quote p. 45; Leonard J. Moore, Citizen Klansmen: The
                                Kit Klux Klan in Indiana, 1921–1928 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N. C, 1991), 49-83; Kathleen M. Blee, Women of the Klan: Racism
                                and Gender in the 1920s (Berkeley, Calif., 1991), 167-68; Sid Levin, oral history,
                            transcript, June 16, 1981 (Community Archives, 
                                Vigo County
                             Public Library, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana); Max R. Einstandig, letter to author, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, September 5, 2001.
                  
                     5Nathaniel Peffer, New Schools For Older Students (
                                New York
                            , 1926), 11; Jewish Community Center Records, M 349, and Jewish Welfare
                            Federation of 
                                Indianapolis
                             Papers, M 463 (Manuscript Collection, Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Historic Clipping File, Washington Avenue Temple Men's Club Lectures (
                                Evansville
                            -
                                Vanderburgh County
                             Public Library, 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana); Rosalyn Friedman, interview by author, Calumet City, 
                                Illinois
                            , May 30, 1992.
                  
                     6"U.S—Population of Places of 3,000 or More
                            Inhabitants," The World Almanac and Book of Facts, 1932 (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 408; Gary L. Bailey, "Losing Ground; Workers and Community in 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, 1875–1935," (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1989), 335-495; "
                                Terre Haute
                            's Jailed Government," Literary Digest,
                            January 16, 1915, 87-88; "Fear of God in 
                                Terre Haute
                            ," ibid., April 24, 1915, 943-44; "In the
                            Indiana Belfry," ibid., July 3, 1915, 6.
               
                    
                    
                  DOWNTOWN TERRE HAUTE, 1920
                self." Although some of the clubs in the 1920s supported mainstream thought,
                    others embraced innovation and Progressive-era reforms.7
            
            In 1920, a young clergyman came to the city. John W. Herring, son of a national leader of the
                    Congregational church, had graduated from Oberlin College in 1914. Important figures in the Social
                    Gospel movement, including Walter Rauschenbusch, frequently visited the campus while Herring was a
                    student and probably shaped his thinking on social issues. From 1914 to 1918, he attended 
                        Chicago
                     Theological Seminary, which taught a liberal Christian sociology and emphasized social
                    action. From this background, Herring came to 
                        Terre Haute
                    's First Congregational Church and began an Open Forum.8
            
            When Coleman, the founder of the Forum movement, spoke at the inaugural program in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , a crowd of 500 people greeted him. Coleman's report of the session noted that
                    people from different social classes had attended: "Business and professional men, toilers
                    in shops and factories, men and women from stores and offices and school room." Labor
                    leaders were on hand for any signs of "enmity," 
                  
                     7Susan Dehler, Archivist, Community Archives, 
                                Vigo County
                             Public Library, letter to author, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, August 28, 2001.
                  
                     8John W. Herring File, Henry Churchill King Papers (Oberlin College
                            Archives, Oberlin, 
                                Ohio
                            ); Roland Baumann, College Archivist, Oberlin College, letter to author,
                            Oberlin, 
                                Ohio
                            , November 19, 1997; Donald M. Love, Henry Churchill King of
                                Oberlin (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1956), 153-56; Joan Blocker, Assistant Librarian, 
                                Chicago
                             Theological Seminary, letter to author, 
                        Chicago, Illinois
                     ,
                            October 30, 1997; Harold F. Worthley, Executive Secretary and Archivist, Congregational
                            Christian Historical Society, letter to author, 
                        Boston, Massachusetts
                     ,
                            October 11,1997; Arthur C. McGiffert, Jr., No Ivory Tower; The Story of the 
                                    Chicago
                                 Theological Seminary (
                                Chicago
                            , 1965), 92-103.
               
                    
                    
                  COLLETT PARK NEIGHBORHOOD, TERRE HAUTE, 1912
                while others wondered if the program was "a menace in disguise." But
                    Coleman rejoiced that "[E]very element in the city is co-operating," and described
                    the series as "a beacon light" for the surrounding area. The local newspaper
                    hailed the Forum's "auspicious opening."9
            
            A "community non-sectarian committee," reflecting the city's religious,
                    educational, business, and union leadership, planned the series. Although the Forum was held on
                    Sunday evenings, the intent was not to "injure church services." The schedule was
                    primarily for people without a "Sunday evening home" to attend. The organization
                    promised that it drew "no sectarian [or] race lines," had "no axe to
                    grind," and would steer clear of politics and sectarian religion. Herring's words
                    echoed those of Coleman, when he had reassured 
                        Boston
                     ministers that he was not seeking their congregants.10
            
            The Forum's "Rules for Open Discussion" were emphatic. They called for
                    "Questions—not Speeches [and] Principles—not Personalities."
                    Organizers insisted on "A Question from each—not a Catechism by a Few"
                    and they placed "A strict Taboo on anything that savours of Propaganda." Finally,
                    they demanded "Honesty of speeches and honesty of questions." Herring described
                    the principles of the movement and its implementation: it "extracted [men and women] from
                    their 
                  
                     9
                     
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, November 15, 1920; 
                        
                                    Detroit
                                 Open Forum; A Journal of News and Views, December 6, 1920, 7; Forum
                            Papers, 
                                Rochester
                            ; George W. Coleman, "The Forum Marching On," The
                                Congregationalist and Advance, December 23, 1920, 819.
                  
                     10
                     The Open Forum News Service (
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1920-1921 Season), Forum Papers, 
                        Rochester; Terre Haute
                     
                            Tribune, January 16, October 23, 28, 1921; Susan Dehler, letter to author,
                            September 17, 1997; The Open Forum (
                                Boston
                            , July 1921), p. 7, Forum Papers, 
                                Rochester
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  JOHN W. HERRING, FOUNDER OF THE TERRE HAUTE OPEN FORUM
                  
                  Courtesy: Oberlin College Archives
                compartments and, by means of free discussion, brought [them] into vital relationship with
                    one another." Through the Forum, a widely diverse group of people, with varying opinions
                    and interests, would acquire an intelligent and constructive social will. The question period
                    following the talk, he wrote, was 
                        the striking of mind upon mind, the airing of misunderstandings, challenges as to facts
                            involved, questions that draw out and clarify the speaker's message, the pouring of
                            every kind of a reaction from every class into the melting pot toward the end of a fairer
                            and better considered outlook by all.
                    
               11
            
            The link between unions and the Forum, particularly in 
                        Terre Haute
                     with its strong labor presence, provides evidence of the lecture movement's
                    broad, cross-class base. The secretary of 
                        Boston
                    's Central 
                  
                     11John C. Herring, "The Open Forum," Adult Bible Class Monthly, XV (November 1922), 321-22, 325.
               
                     Labor Union was one of the planners of the Ford Hall Forum and
                    was the first speaker at its opening night. As William A. Brown, a leader in progressive
                    Christianity, wrote in 1922, the movement was an attempt "to bridge the gap between the
                    Church and organized labor."12
            
            In this and other efforts to broaden their constituency, 
                        Terre Haute
                     forum leaders apparently succeeded. Newspaper accounts of the first year's
                    programs frequently mention capacity audiences. The extensive range of lecture topics for that year
                    included city planning, prison reform, labor-management relations, marriage, the farm crisis, civil
                    liberties, foreign affairs, and local political issues. This varied schedule represented a carefully
                    planned approach to broaden the knowledge and social awareness of the city's adults. In
                    announcing plans for the second year, the speakers' committee claimed that it had made
                    "a careful and conscientious effort to maintain an even balance of radical and conservative
                    presentations" and the committee members reiterated their belief that "truth will
                    eventually come out through free discussion."13
            
            Several speakers at the 
                        Terre Haute
                     forums explored ethnic and racial issues. Sociologist Edward Steiner lectured early in
                    the second season. In researching his book, On the Trail of the Immigrant (1906),
                    he had made many trips across the Atlantic, always in steerage, to understand the spirit and
                    problems of immigrants. Before a filled hall, he declared that the postwar world was suffering from
                    a "perverted nationalism." Self-determination had become "selfish
                    determination." Everywhere in Europe he found destruction resulting from the war, with the
                    greatest damage not to individuals but to the human spirit. Steiner was typical of many lecturers
                    who brought first-hand knowledge of foreign affairs to the Forum. Another major speaker was W. E. B.
                    DuBois, author and editor of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
                    People's widely read monthly, The Crisis. His speech on global prospects
                    for change after the World War, entitled "The Future of the Darker Races," was the
                    same topic he would address later in 
                        Hammond
                    . The scholar-activist predicted little danger of these races dying out or being
                    exterminated, as they composed by far the greater part of the world's population.14
            
            The 
                        Terre Haute
                     Open Forum was off to a strong start. In the conservative postwar era, an ideal series
                    had been developed, with 
                  
                     12Capacity attendance is noted, for example, in the 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, November 15, December 6, 1920; January 10, 1921. The link between
                            labor and the Forum is described in William Adams Brown, The Church in America:
                                A Study of The Present Condition and Future Prospects of American Protestantism (
                                New York
                            , 1922), 90.
                  
                     13
                     
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, October 23, 1921.
                  
                     14
                     Ibid., December 12, 1921; January 30, 1922.
                            Although a copy of Du Bois's lecture with that title was not located, news reports
                            of his presentation in other cities are in the [
                                Hammond
                            ] 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 Times, February 24, 1926, and 
                                Detroit
                            
                            News, February 8, 1926.
               
                     a representative planning committee, a range of topics of local
                    and wider interest, and speakers who broadened horizons and sparked controversy. Despite the modern
                    perception of 1920s Indiana as narrow-minded and Klan-dominated, large audiences in the first two
                    years attest to the public's interest, while extended coverage by the leading local
                    newspaper confirms the Forum's importance for the community. The open platform and vigorous
                    give-and-take question periods built bridges of understanding among different religious and ethnic
                    groups, as well as between labor and business.
            Some Forum leaders went further and publicly challenged the worst aspects of midwestern bigotry and
                    racism. In September 1924 Herring directly confronted the issue before a meeting of the anti-Klan
                    "Protestant Committee of One Hundred of 
                        Parke County
                    ," near 
                        Terre Haute
                    . A local newspaper noted that while "the Klan is strong, and Catholics are
                    few" in the area, there was "an intensely bitter feeling between the Klan and
                    anti-Klan Protestants." The minister began by saying it would be easy to condemn the Klan
                    but that it was more important to approach the problem without rancor, "as brothers in a
                    democracy." He called for the Klan members in the audience to come out in the open,
                    claiming that "a good old-fashioned honest town meeting" would clear up
                    misunderstanding. No one, he asserted, would be happier than the people at the meeting to see law
                    enforcement, civic honesty, and patriotism put into effect. Rather than hiding behind masks in a mob
                    at night, he urged Klan members to lay their arguments before the court of public opinion in broad
                    daylight. He concluded that he might be "a red Russian or a pink alien," but that
                    he had been taught from the cradle to believe that true Americanism included belief in freedom and
                    equal opportunity for all.15
            
            The vice-chairman of the Forum, Rabbi Joseph Fink of Temple Israel, showed even greater personal
                    courage. In 1923, the local Klan group ordered the Reform rabbi to resign as president of the
                    Welfare League, the predecessor to the United Way. He refused, and they invited him to a meeting on
                    a deserted farm. Before 300 hooded Klan members, he derided the cowardice of those who concealed
                    their identities under the guise of Americanism. A few days later, the group sent the Welfare League
                    a check for $1,800.16
            
            The Open Forum also challenged the prevailing political conservatism of 1920s Indiana. In the 1924
                    election, Ed Jackson, the Klan-backed gubernatorial candidate, swept the state, and a majority of
                    Klan-supported candidates won the legislature. Speaking shortly after the vote at the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Forum, Roger Baldwin, National 
                  
                     15
                     
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, September 20, 1924; 
                                Rockville
                            
                            Tribune, September 17, 24, October 1, 1924; 
                                Rockville
                            
                            Republican, September 24, 1924.
                  
                     16
                     25th Anniversary Program Booklet, Temple Beth
                            Zion, Buffalo, 
                                New York
                            , 1949, Nearprint Box - Biographies, "Joseph L. Fink,"
                            (American Jewish Archives, Hebrew Union College, 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     );
                            Kathy Spray, American Jewish Archives, letter to author, 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                            January 21, 1998.
               
                    
                    
                  TEMPLE ISRAEL, TERRE HAUTE.
                Director of the American Civil Liberties Union, expressed hope that in spite of the
                    conservative victory, the state's civil liberties climate would improve. On Armistice Day
                    Baldwin, a World War I conscientious objector, spoke at the Forum, prompting criticism from the
                    local American Legion post. In the following weeks, a female minister discussed women in politics,
                    and a sociology professor spoke on race prejudice from a global perspective.17
            
            From 1923 to 1924, Herring also served with the Midwest Council for Social Discussion in 
                        Chicago
                    . Part of the Open Forum movement, the Council brought together adult education groups
                    across the Midwest. In October 1924, the minister resigned his pulpit for a position with the
                    Federal Council of Churches. Socialist leader and 
                        Terre Haute
                     resident Eugene V. Debs wrote that Herring was 
                        the most progressive preacher we have had here for years.
                     Herring eventually left the ministry to work full time in bringing communities together and
                    to spread the Forum approach to adult education. His departure marked the end of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Forum, but even as this series was concluding, another was beginning in a different
                    house of worship in the northwestern corner of the state.18
            
            
               
                  17
                  
                     
                                Lake County
                             Times, November 5, 1924; James H. Madison, The Indiana
                        Way (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1986), 293; Dennis Vetrovec, Cunningham Memorial Library, Indiana State University
                        Library, letter to author, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana, November 21, 1997, with copy of letter enclosed from Roger Baldwin,
                        Director, American Civil Liberties Union, 
                     New
                            York, New York
                  , to V. R.
                        M'Millan, Commander, Fort Harrison Post No. 40, American Legion, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana, January 17,1925; 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Tribune, November 9, 12, 19, 26, 1924.
               
                  18Herring File, Henry Churchill King Papers; 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Tribune, October 3, 1924; "The First Birthday of the Midwest Council
                        For Social Discussion," n.d., Forum Papers, 
                            Rochester
                        ; Eugene V. Debs, Letters of Eugene V. Debs, Vol. Ill: 1919–1926,
            
            
            
               STATE STREET, HAMMOND, INDIANA, 1927
               Courtesy: 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Daily News Negatives Collection, 
                            Chicago
                         Historical Society
            
            When newly ordained Rabbi Max Bretton came to 
                        Hammond
                     in 1923, he found a growing industrial community. A population of 20,000 in 1910 had
                    grown to 36,000 in 1920 and would expand to 64,000 by the end of the decade. In 1920, 8,000
                    residents were foreign-born, mostly from 
                        Poland
                    , Germany and 
                        Austria
                    . In the same year, 168 people of "Negro and other races" were listed;
                    by 1930 this number would rise to 715. The Chamber of Commerce increased its membership within a few
                    years from 300 to 700 members, and conveyed its goal graphically: "The Map Shows Why 
                        Hammond
                     Grows." New construction and new businesses, a large planned residential
                    addition, and the growth of existing industries all meant greater opportunities. While the
                    city's Jewish population was small, as in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Jews were extensively involved in local commercial life and civic activities. The
                    rabbi gave a "well-received" speech at a Chamber meeting on city development,
                    speaking not only about industry but also the establishment of parks and playgrounds and the
                    "artistic possibilities" of 
                        Hammond
                    's citizens.19
            
            
               ed. J. Robert Constantine (
                            Urbana
                        , Ill., 1990), 447; Harold F. Brigham, "
                            Nashville
                         Educational Council," Journal of Adult Education, II
                        (June 1930), 324-25; Harold F. Worthley, Executive Secretary and Archivist, Congregational
                        Christian Historical Society, letter to author, 
                     Boston, Massachusetts
                  ,
                        September 16, 1997; John W. Herring, Social Planning and Adult Education (
                            New York
                        , 1933), v-xi, 15-25; John W. Herring and Leo T. Osmon, Forums and a
                            Community Forum Program (
                            New York
                        , 1936).
               
                  19Deborah Bretton Granoff, telephone interview by author, 
                            Kansas
                         City, 
                            Missouri
                        , May 13,1991; Smith's Directory of 
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana and West 
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana, 1921-22 (Dorchester, Mass., 1922), 14, 32, and Smith's Directory … 1923-24, 43; World Almanac and
                            Book of Facts 1932, 408; Jacob R. Marcus, To Count a People:
                    
            
            
            There was, however, another side to 
                        Hammond
                     during those years, as shown in the 1924 "New Year Wish" of the
                    Chamber of Commerce. After listing positive aspects of the community, the Chamber observed that 
                        Hammond
                     needed "citizenship, not partisanship; friendliness, not offishness; sympathy
                    not criticism; intelligent support, not indifference." During the 1920s and 1930s, the city
                    had witnessed several instances of Klan activity, and the rabbi spoke of a cross burning on the
                    temple grounds. In 1922, 12,000 to 15,000 people attended a local Klan rally. Although many may have
                    been from adjoining cities, 
                        Hammond
                     was the focal point. In 1923, "more than 5000 regalia-clad Klansmen
                    marched" alongside several hundred members wearing their "civilian
                    clothing," and "Spectators lined the streets in support." On election
                    night in 1924, when Klan-backed gubernatorial candidate Jackson swept the state, including 
                        Hammond
                    , "a cross blazed in every park" in the city.20
            
            Bretton brought the liberal idealism of Reform Judaism into this atmosphere. Paralleling the
                    development of the Social Gospel, Reform rabbis were seeking to change Judaism from its emphasis on
                    individual conduct to a focus on social issues. In 1885, the Central Conference of American Rabbis,
                    a Reform group, had stated: "We deem it our duty to participate in the great task of modern
                    times, to solve, on the basis of justice and righteousness, the problems presented by the contrasts
                    and evils of the present organization of society." The rabbis realized that the preachers
                    of the Social Gospel, basing their beliefs on the Prophets, "were now drawing on common
                    values for a common American cause."21
            
            The organization's 1918 conference passed the first social justice platform of Reform
                    Judaism. Similar to the 1912 platform of the Federal Council of Churches and the 1919 platform of
                    Catholic bishops, on certain points it went beyond both the Protestant and Catholic positions. The
                    overwork of women, child labor, bad housing, and political corruption were assessed as religious
                    problems. The platform's "[e]ssential, unassailable propositions"
                    included the regulation of wages and work, the entitlement of labor to a voice in its affairs and
                        
                  
                     American Jewish Population Data, 1585-1984 (
                                Lanham
                            , Md., 1988), 65, 68; [
                                Hammond
                             Chamber of Commerce] Pep-In-Calumet, December 29, 1924, 1;
                            Alexander Morris, interview by author, 
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana, February 8, 1991; Sylvia Friedman, interview by author, Munster,
                            Indiana, April 3, 1991; Ida and Arthur Friedman, interview by author, Munster, Indiana,
                            April 9, 1991.
                  
                     20
                     Pep-In-Calumet, December 29,1924, 1; Granoff,
                            interview by author; 
                                Hammond
                            
                            Times, July 20, 1984; Neil Betten, "Nativism and the Klan in Town
                            and City: 
                                Valparaiso
                             and Gary, Indiana," Studies in History and Society,
                            IV (Spring 1973), 6; 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 Times, November 5, 1924.
                  
                     21Michael A. Meyer, Response to Modernity: A History of
                                the Reform Movement in Judaism (
                                New York
                            , 1988), 269, 272, 287-88, 388; Leonard Judah Mervis, "The Social
                            Justice Movement of the American Reform Rabbis, 1890-1940" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                            University of 
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1951), 9.
               
                     to arbitration in disputes, and the requirement that contracts
                    between employers and employees be endorsed by society.22
            
            Like the Social Gospel leaders, the rabbis were confident that an enlightened citizenry could solve
                    the nation's social problems. However, the rabbis' beliefs did not predominate,
                    either within the Central Conference of American Rabbis or the wider Jewish community. Like their
                    Protestant counterparts, progressive rabbis were frequently out of step with their congregational
                    leaders, often businessmen.23
            
            At a 1915 conference, Rabbi Abraham Cronbach had argued that social justice was Jewish and right, and
                    right must be done. To the dismay of leaders in the congregations he served, he spoke out vigorously
                    on social problems. Rejected as a pulpit rabbi, in 1922 he became the first Professor of Jewish
                    Social Studies at Hebrew Union College. Among his students was Lithuanian-born Max Bretton, who
                    would shortly assume his first pulpit in 
                        Hammond
                    .24
            
            When Rabbi Bretton arrived in 
                        Hammond
                    , he understood that his most important role would be to teach and raise
                    thought-provoking questions, not simply to guide congregants through rituals. On June 24, 1924, he
                    wrote to 
                        New York
                    's Rabbi Stephen Wise, who had served as first vice-president of the Open Forum
                    National Council, and was a leading Jewish voice on social justice and a strong advocate for
                    building bridges between religions: "We are preparing an open forum course in 
                        Hammond
                    , Indiana, which is just a few miles outside of 
                        Chicago
                    ." Four months later, the local newspaper announced the creation of
                    "an open forum … expected to have an educational and liberalizing effect upon
                    the entire community." More than "mere lectures," the Beth-El Social
                    Center Open Forum Course (named after the meeting room in the temple) would have "plenty of
                    time for questions and expression of view."25
            
            In 1937, looking back at the beginning of the series, the president of the 
                        Hammond
                     Open Forum discussed Bretton's motivation. Dr. Hedwig Stieglitz Kuhn, a
                    physician, wrote that the rabbi believed that there was "a sturdy core of thinking, fact
                    seeking citizens" who craved an authoritative discussion of vital problems. From the start,
                    she noted, the forum was non-sectarian. After being given its basic 
                  
                     22Meyer, Response to Modernity, 288, 309; Jerrold
                            Goldstein, "Reform Rabbis and the Progressive Movement" (M.A. thesis,
                            University of 
                                Minnesota
                            , 1967), 4, 52-59, 87-89; Mervis, "Social Justice Movement of the
                            American Reform Rabbis," 45.
                  
                     23Richard Hofstadter, The Age of Reform; From Bryan to
                                F.D.R. (
                                New York
                            , 1955), 152-53; Goldstein, "Reform Rabbis," 52-59.
                  
                     24Mervis, "Social Justice Movement of the American Reform
                            Rabbis," 52-53, 181-85; Kathy Spray, letter to author, July 26,1991; Hebrew Union College Catalogue, 1924-1925, Nearprint
                            Box—"Hebrew Union College Materials up to 1950" (American
                            Jewish Archives), 50-51.
                  
                     25Rabbi Max Bretton to Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, June 24, 1924, Stephen
                            S. Wise Papers, Reel 74-33, Box 44, Folder 2, (American Jewish Historical Society, Waltham, 
                                Massachusetts
                            ); 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 Times, October 20,1924; Pep-In-Calumet, March 1925,
                            18-21.
               
                    
                    
                  RABBI MAX BRETTON, FOUNDER OF THE
                                HAMMOND OPEN FORUM
                  
                  Courtesy: Temple Beth-El, Munster, Indiana
                form by the temple leadership, the "Beth-El Open Forum" became the "
                        Hammond
                     Open Forum," with a representative steering committee, including a temple and
                    civic leader (the moderator), a civic-minded Catholic attorney, the "staunchly
                    conservative" Methodist superintendent of schools, a female physician and civic activist (a
                    Forum leader from its inception), and the man who would shortly become secretary of the Chamber of
                        Commerce.26
            
            
               
                  26Hedwig S. Kuhn, "Time Again for Open Forum," [
                            Hammond
                         Chamber of Commerce] 
                     
                                Hammond
                             Business, September 1937,1; Polk's 
                                Hammond
                            
                   [Indiana] City Directory 1931 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1931), 214, 289, 441, 448; Polk's 
                                Hammond
                             City Directory 1935 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1935) 171; Lance Trusty, 
                     
                                Hammond
                            , A Centennial Portrait (1984; Norfolk, Va., 1990), 26,45, 71,152,180,197;
                        Suzanne Long, Calumet Room Librarian, 
                            Hammond
                         Public Library, letters to author, 
                            Hammond
                        , Indiana, December 3, 1997, November 18, 1998, January 10, 13, 1999; Rabbi Ulrick
                        B. Steuer, "History of Congregation Beth-El," Dedication of
                            Temple Beth-El, booklet, September 9-11,1955 (Temple Beth-El Archives, 
                            Hammond
                        , Indiana).
            
            
            The very first lecture demonstrated the nonsectarian, broad-ranging Forum principles in action.
                    Father John A. Ryan, a leading Catholic social justice advocate, spoke on "Industrial
                    Democracy." The program brochure for his talk noted that democracy was based on the idea
                    that every human being is entitled to equal consideration. In his 1925 book, Industrial
                        Democracy from a Catholic Viewpoint, Ryan wrote that the concept of "industrial
                    democracy" would give wage earners a greater voice in their workplace. The idea of labor
                    sharing in management rested upon the most fundamental desires and capacities of human nature,
                    according to Ryan, with most people seeking some control over their environment. 
                        There is some directive, initiative, creative capacity in every normal human being
                    , he wrote.27
            
            The 
                        Hammond
                     planners also chose speakers who stressed the importance of tolerance and understanding
                    of other beliefs. The speaker who followed the Roman Catholic Ryan was Syud Hossain, a journalist
                    and public lecturer from India. Introducing Eastern religions to a largely Christian community was
                    intended to demonstrate that non-majority religions contained meaningful values, an important point
                    for the Jewish congregation arranging the series. A subsequent lecture by historian George L.
                    Scherger covered race prejudice "from the early Roman intolerance of Christianity to the
                    present day Ku Klux Klan." There is no such thing as pure American stock, he reminded the
                    audience, as "America always has been a great melting pot [and we] are all brothers of a
                    great world." Scherger longed to see every American extend a helping hand to newcomers.
                    These were remarkable words, considering the anti-immigrant atmosphere in Indiana and the country at
                    the time.28
            
            Other speakers in the first year included leaders in the arts, sciences, and humanities, among them
                    novelist Sherwood Anderson, historian Charles Beard, adult educator Will Durant, Socialist leader 
                        Norman
                     Thomas, and Dr. John Haynes Holmes, a nationally known clergyman. One lecturer shared a
                    new understanding of history through research in psychology, anthropology, ethnology, and other
                    sciences. Rabbi Bretton concluded the year by speaking on the issue of nationwide child labor
                        reform.29
            
            The first year of the Beth-El Open Forum reflected the vision of the planners and laid the groundwork
                    for future programs. To a community that saw Klan hatred and lacked a strong intellectual tradition,
                    Jewish leaders brought Roman Catholic and Indian theologians. They exposed the public to the most
                    current ideas on 
                  
                     27Forum Papers, 
                                Hammond
                            ; John A. Ryan, Industrial Democracy from a Catholic Viewpoint
                            (Washington, D.C., 1925), 1, 7.
                  
                     28Forum Papers, 
                                Hammond
                            ; "Syud Hossain," 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Times Obituaries Index, 1858-1968 (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 483; U.S., Fourteenth Census, 1920: Vol. Ill, Composition and Characteristics Of The Population By States, 304; 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 Times, December 3, 1924.
                  
                     29Forum Papers, 
                                Hammond
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  TEMPLE BETH-EL, HAMMOND, C. 1925
                  Courtesy: 
                                Hammond
                             Public Library
                history, science, and literature and did not shy away from controversy. Beard had resigned
                    from 
                        Columbia
                     University over the suppression of free speech during the war; Thomas had vigorously
                    opposed America's entry into the war; and Holmes was instrumental in founding the NAACP and
                    ACLU. He had been a leading voice against the war and a strong voice for liberal causes
                        afterwards.30
            
            In 1926, after developing a strong foundation for the Forum, Rabbi Bretton left 
                        Hammond
                     and the pulpit. In contrast with 
                        Terre Haute
                    , the founder's departure did not signal the end of the forums. In the 1930s,
                    foreign affairs became a more frequent topic, eventually dominating the series each year. Lecturers
                    included Rabbi Wise, James Weldon Johnson of the NAACP, and, in 1938, First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt.
                    One regular attendee from 1930 to 1933 estimated that 100 to 150 people enjoyed the programs during
                    that period. The fact that the series continued for 19 years, Tuesday evenings from late fall until
                    early spring, suggests that the lectures were well-received. Coupled with newspaper articles on the
                    programs, something of the wider educational impact of the Forum can be sensed. The Chamber of
                    Commerce also recognized its value, pointing out the importance of paying attention to the social
                    and esthetic development of citizens. The Forum's value could not be measured in financial
                    terms, the business group noted, but rather in terms of "civic development."31
            
            
               
                  30Janet Weiss Pence (daughter of Arthur Weiss, moderator), letter to
                        author, Mill Valley, 
                            California
                        , April 3, 1991; Pep-In-Calumet, March 1925, 18-21.
               
                  31
                  Dictionary of American Biography, see under
                        "Charles A. Beard" and "John H. Holmes"; Encyclopedia of American Biography, see under "Norman R. Thomas";
                        Forum Papers, 
                            Hammond
                        ; Eleanor Roosevelt, "My Day," October 20,1928, Eleanor Roosevelt
                        Papers (George Washington University at 
                            Mount Vernon
                         College, Washington, D.C.).
            
            
            The lectures continued into the Second World War, stopping only when the gasoline shortage made
                    private transportation too difficult. After her talk in 
                        Hammond
                    , Mrs. Roosevelt wrote in her daily newspaper column that she was told the
                    fifteen-year-old Forum at times had a great deal of difficulty in continuing to operate,
                    "but this year forums have suddenly become popular and the demand for season tickets is
                    overwhelming." Arthur Weiss, a leader of the temple and business community, worked with Dr.
                    Kuhn from the beginning, serving as the moderator. A civic leader for many years, he probably
                    prepared the publicity for the programs and the newspaper articles afterwards. Dr. Kuhn, in addition
                    to her extensive medical practice, continued to lead the Forum as well as the League of Women
                        Voters.32
            
            According to a historian of 
                        Hammond
                    , the Forum was held in high regard because of the leaders who volunteered their time
                    and talents. The nearness to 
                        Chicago
                     that made it easier for speakers to travel was augmented by personal friendships among
                    the leaders. With such leadership and a broad range of stimulating speakers, the lectures opened new
                    vistas, raised provocative questions, and created a model of deliberative democracy in the
                    industrial city.33
            
            Crosses burned in 
                        Hammond
                     as the Beth-El Open Forum began, but for nineteen years the forum's speakers
                    cast a wider, deeper, and more lasting light. Letters between local planners and Du Bois, written
                    after his lecture in 
                        Hammond
                    , capture the intellectual and interpersonal impact of the Forum. Kuhn wrote to Du Bois
                    about the 
                        spiritual entity grown inside of me … like a blossom in fertile soil.
                     She expressed her deep hope to build a foundation of clear thinking and feeling for her
                    children, "so they can later enrich themselves at the hearths of many nations and many
                    races." Du Bois had given her "new strength and vision."34
            
            There are some intriguing parallels in the careers of the two Indiana Forum founders, minister and
                    rabbi. Both began activist leadership in the state soon after ordination, and each forged links with
                    fellow clergy in their communities. After their trailblazing work, however, they left the pulpit,
                    the minister for a long career in community relations and adult education, always using the Forum
                    method, and 
                  
                     32Granoff, interview by author; 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 Times, October 20,1924; 
                                Hammond
                            
                            Times, December 28-30, 1938, June 18, 1973, January 31, 1960; Janet Weiss
                            Pence, letter to author, Mill Valley, 
                                California
                            , May 7, 1991; Roosevelt, "My Day," October 20, 1928, Eleanor
                            Roosevelt Papers; 
                        
                                    Hammond
                                 Business, February 1942, January 1944; scrapbooks, 
                                Hammond
                             League of Women Voters, Pamphlet Folders Collection (
                                Hammond
                             Public Library, 
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana); Millie Pilot (former League president), telephone interview by
                            author, 
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana, October 10, 1995.
                  
                     33Marjorie Sohl (community historian), letter to author, 
                                Hammond
                            , Indiana, August 30, 2001.
                  
                     34
                     The Papers of W. E. B. Du Bois (Sanford, N.C.,
                            1980), microfilm, reels 16-19. The Du Bois visit is described in Arthur S. Meyers,
                            "W. E. B. Du Bois and the Open Forum: Human Relations in a 'Difficult
                            Industrial District,'" Journal of Negro History LXXXTV
                            (Spring 1999), 192-204, quotations p. 200.
               
                     the rabbi for Jewish communal work and to operate a restaurant.
                    While the reasons for their departures are not known, they may not have found in their daily
                    pastoral duties the fulfillment that the Forum brought them, or perhaps their inner lives reflected
                    what Reinhold Niebuhr and John Dewey described during the decade as the loss of faith and need for
                    community. Whatever the reasons, their accomplishments in the two cities are evident. They broke new
                    ground, bringing the "light" of the movement to two otherwise conservative Indiana
                        communities.35
            
            Even with the clergymen's leadership, the two series would have been impossible without the
                    support of their congregations and of the wider community. The dedication of prominent people who
                    served on planning committees, contacted lecturers, and made the necessary arrangements, in addition
                    to the local newspapers that published accounts of the lectures to bring the learning to the public,
                    reflect a deep, broad sense of civic responsibility rising within such small cities as 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Hammond
                    . And the ideal of the Open Forum as "the striking of mind upon mind"
                    remains a model for a human-centered approach to public learning.
            
               
                  35Reinhold Niebuhr, "Can Christianity Survive?", Atlantic Monthly (January 1925), 84-88, and "A Religion Worth
                        Fighting For," Survey, August 1, 1927, 444-46, 480. Niebuhr was a
                        Student Director for the Open Forum with the Midwest Council for Social Discussion; Forum
                        Papers, 
                            Rochester
                        , May 8, 1925; Dewey, Public and its Problems.
               
            
         
         
         
            Building Networks: Cooperation and Communication Among African Americans in the Urban Midwest,
                    1860–1910
            
               Jack S. Blocker Jr.∗
            
            In the dramatic narrative of African-American history, the story of the post-Emancipation years
                    begins in the rural South, where the rights won through postwar constitutional amendments gradually
                    yield to the overwhelming forces of segregation and disfranchisement. During the First World War,
                    the scene shifts to the metropolitan North, where many members of the rapidly growing southern-born
                    migrant population develop a new, militant consciousness. Behind this primary narrative, however,
                    lies another story. An earlier, smaller migration flow from South to North had already established
                    the institutional and cultural foundations for the emergence of a national racial consciousness in
                    postbellum America. Much of this crucial work took place in small and mid-size towns and cities.
            Some interpreters have seen the creation of a national racial consciousness as a natural and normal
                    product of African heritage. This view, however, neglects the diverse origins and experiences of
                    African Americans during the slavery years. "Alternatively," writes historian
                    Harold Forsythe, "we should consider that a distinctive national community developed from
                    local roots during emancipation. Local associations of freedpeople, organized in families,
                    neighborhood groupings, churches, [and] benevolent and fraternal orders, slowly developed into
                    regional, statewide, and ultimately national consociations. This process of unification involved not
                    only consciousness, but [also] institutional and power connections. It matured between 1909 and
                    about 1925."1 The process of community-building can be seen clearly in
                    the three states of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , which I call the Lower Midwest.
            On the eve of the Civil War, about 56,000 African Americans lived in the Lower Midwest. Thirty years
                    later, after a flood of wartime migration from the South and a trickle of migrants over the
                    following quarter century, that number had risen to 190,000. Another wave of 
                  
                     ∗ Jack S. Blocker, Jr., is professor of history at Huron
                            University College, University of Western 
                        Ontario, London, Ontario
                     . He is coeditor of Alcohol and
                                Temperance in Modern History: An International Encyclopedia (2003) and author of
                                American Temperance Movements: Cycles of Reform (1989) and "Give to the Winds Thy Fears": The Women's
                                Temperance Crusade, 1873–1874 (1985).
                  
                     1Posting on H-Afro-Am, February 17, 1999. Quoted by permission.
               
                    
                    
                  AFRICAN-AMERICAN WOMEN IN A MUNCIE,
                                INDIANA, GLASS FACTORY C. 1915. INDUSTRIAL JOBS IN
                                SMALL CITIES IN THE NORTH DREW BLACK MIGRANTS FROM THE SOUTH.
                  Courtesy: Archives and Special Collections, Ball State University Libraries
                migration between 1890 and 1910 pushed the total to about 280,000. By the turn of the
                    century, one-third to nearly one-half of each state's African-American population could be
                    found in towns and small cities (more than 2,500 but less than 100,000 total population), but many
                    more black migrants who eventually settled in large cities passed through such smaller urban places.
                    Few of these communities had contained many African-American residents before the war, and in all
                    but one of them—
                  Brooklyn, Illinois
               —African Americans had
                    constituted a small minority.
            From their many social connections in the South, African-American migrants in the Gilded Age brought
                    with them at most only their families, and those usually in part. Migrants left behind their
                    churches and voluntary associations, and their networks of communication with friends and family
                    members who stayed behind were disrupted, too—if only temporarily. In their new worlds,
                    migrants found themselves associating not only with white strangers, but also with blacks from other
                    states, other backgrounds. "A thousand theories about the peculiarities of Negro life in
                    the United States," writes Charles Tilly, "rest on beliefs about the wrenching
                    effects" of migration  from the rural South to the
                    metropolitan North.2 Recent analysts of migration, however, tend to view the
                    migration process generally as "reorganizing," not
                        "disorganizing."3 A minority within white worlds, the
                    African-American residents of midwestern small towns and small cities may have found both the
                    physical appearance of their new places and their lives within agricultural cycles familiar. But
                    they had to rebuild their former social and communal networks. This essay explores associational
                    activity and modes of intercommunal communication, two of the principal means through which new
                    African-American residents of midwestern towns and small cities constructed their communal lives,
                    and suggests the implications of community-building for political struggle.
            African Americans created a network of churches and voluntary associations wherever numbers
                    permitted. The necessary minimum number, however, was not very great. In 
                        Champaign
                    -
                  Urbana, Illinois
               , blacks organized African Methodist Episcopal (AME) and
                    Baptist churches during the 1870s, when the African-American population of the twin cities numbered
                    more than 173 (1870) but less than 334 (1880).4 When churches of the same two
                    denominations sprouted in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, during the same decade, the town's African-American population fell
                    between the 51 of 1870 and the 323 of 1880.5 Even these numbers overstate what
                    was necessary to found a church. Only 64 African Americans appeared in the 1860 census of Washington
                    Court House, 
                        Ohio
                    , yet five years earlier a group had organized that town's Second Baptist
                    Church. "The brothers of the church," wrote its historian, "purchased the
                    property and they and the members contributed material and labor in the actual construction
                        work."6 In 1867, an AME church joined the Baptists in Washington
                    Court House, as the town's African-American population rose—to 249 in 1870.7 These figures understate the potential number of communicants for the new
                    churches, since not only residents of these small towns but also co-religionists from the nearby
                    countryside would have attended. Nevertheless, the numbers indicate that the critical mass necessary
                    to build basic community institutions did not exceed a few hundred. By 1890, virtually all
                    African-American urbanites in 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                  
                     2Charles Tilly, "Race and Migration to the American
                            City," in The Metropolitan Enigma, ed. James Q. Wilson (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 136.
                  
                     3Howard P. Chudacoff, "A Reconsideration of Geographical
                            Mobility in American Urban History," 
                        
                                    Virginia
                                 Magazine of History and Biography, CII (October 1994), 517-18.
                  
                     4Janet Andrews Cromwell, "History and Organization of the
                            Negro Community in 
                                Champaign
                            -
                        Urbana, Illinois
                     " (M.A. Thesis, University of 
                                Illinois
                            , 1934), 91.
                  
                     5Frances V. Halsell Gilliam, A Time To Speak: A Brief
                                History of the Afro-Americans of 
                                    Bloomington
                                , Indiana, 1865–1965 (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1985), 30-31.
                  
                     6"Autobiographic Sketch of the New Second Baptist Church, 828 
                                Columbus
                             Avenue, Washington Court House, 
                                Ohio
                            ," typescript (Carnegie Public Library, Washington Court House, 
                                Ohio
                            ).
                  
                     7Frank M. Allen, ed., History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                , 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914), 237.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            Table 1: Distribution of African-American Urban Populations by Size, 1890
                        
                  
                     African-American Population Size
                     Percent of Total African-American Urban Population
                     Percent of All Towns
                     Mean
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Ohio
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     0
                     0.0
                     4.0
                     0
                  
                  
                     1-99
                     2.7
                     34.0
                     41
                  
                  
                     100-499
                     18.8
                     40.0
                     238
                  
                  
                     500-999
                     21.6
                     15.0
                     731
                  
                  
                     1,000+
                     56.9
                     7.0
                     4,117
                  
                  
                     
                                Total Population
                            
                     
                                50,692
                            
                     
                                100
                            
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Indiana
                                
                            
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     0
                     0.0
                     8.3
                     0
                  
                  
                     1-99
                     3.4
                     36.7
                     44
                  
                  
                     100-499
                     20.7
                     41.7
                     236
                  
                  
                     500-999
                     8.2
                     5.0
                     779
                  
                  
                     1,000+
                     67.8
                     8.3
                     3,872
                  
                  
                     
                                Total Population
                            
                     
                                28,566
                            
                     
                                60
                            
                     
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Illinois
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     0
                     0.0
                     6.6
                     0
                  
                  
                     1-99
                     3.2
                     43.4
                     33
                  
                  
                     100-499
                     18.4
                     35.5
                     231
                  
                  
                     500-999
                     14.9
                     9.2
                     721
                  
                  
                     1,000+
                     63.6
                     5.3
                     5,382
                  
                  
                     
                                Total Population
                            
                     
                                33,877
                            
                     
                                76
                            
                     
                  
                  
                     Source: Population of the United States at the Eleventh Census:
                                    1890, Part I (Washington, D.C., 1895), 451-85.
                  
                and 
                        Illinois
                     lived in communities where such a critical mass was present (Table 1). Even when a
                    full-fledged church could not be supported, a circuit rider would conduct periodic services. In
                    1903, for example, AME circuits in southern 
                        Ohio
                     included the hamlets of Dry Run, Berlin Cross Roads, and Carr's Run.8 Still, some congregations' enthusiasm outran their
                    denomination's ability to provide pastors. Baptist churches in twelve 
                        Ohio
                     towns, including Washington Court House, lacked pastors at some point during 1903.9 Church membership generally included a larger proportion of the population in
                    small 
                  
                            8
                            
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Annual Conference, A. M. E. Church, 1903.
                        
                  
                     9
                     
                                Urbana
                            
                            Informer, September 1903.
               
                     towns than in the cities.10 A good example
                    was Xenia, 
                        Ohio
                    , where a U. S. Department of Labor researcher in 1902 found seven African-American
                    churches serving a population of less than 2,000. Together 65 percent of the town's
                    population above ten years of age belonged to one of the seven churches. Eighty-four percent of the
                    families in Xenia reported at least one church member. The annual rites of baptism, held in one of
                    the nearby streams, attracted "hundreds, and often thousands, of people from various parts
                    of the country."11
            
            Voluntary associations also proliferated quickly in small-town and small-city settings. One of the
                    earliest in many places was the Prince Hall Masons. When the wave of Civil War migrants rolled into
                    the Lower Midwest, African Americans found Masonic lodges already established not only in all the
                    major cities but also in Xenia and 
                  Zanesville,
                            Ohio; Carthage,
                            Madison, Richmond
               , and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana; and Alton and 
                  Springfield,
                            Illinois
               .
            Before 1900, lodges appeared in another forty-six 
                        Ohio
                     towns. In Washington Court House, St. Luke's Lodge was chartered in 1870.
                    Three lodges were organized in 
                        Springfield
                     between 1863 and 1878.12 The Order of the Eastern Star, Prince Hall
                    Masonry's female counterpart, was also a common organization in non-metropolitan as well as
                    metropolitan settings. Other widespread fraternal and sororal societies included the Odd Fellows,
                    Household of Ruth, Knights of Pythias, United Brothers of Friendship, and Sisters of the Mysterious
                        Ten.13 In 1906, the 700 African Americans in Washington Court House
                    supported a Masonic lodge and companion Eastern Star chapter, an Odd Fellows lodge and adjunct
                    Household of Ruth chapter, and a Knights of Pythias lodge.14 Another form of
                    organizational support came from the African-American posts of the Grand Army of the Republic 
                  
                     10David A. Gerber, Black 
                                    Ohio
                                 and the Color Line, 1860–1915 (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1976), 149.
                  
                     11Richard R. Wright, Jr., The Negroes of Xenia, 
                                    Ohio
                                : A Social Study, Bulletin of the U. S. Department of Labor, No. 48
                            (1903), 1040-41.
                  
                     12William H. Parham and Jeremiah A. Brown, An Official
                                History of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons for the State of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , (1906), 41-43.
                  
                     13
                     Williams' 
                                    Dayton
                                 City and 
                                    Montgomery County
                                 Directory for 1890/1891 (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1891; 
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., n.d.), microfilm; Williams' 
                                    Springfield
                                 City Directory for 1892 (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1892); Ibid., 1893 and 1901; Johnson Publishing Company, Anderson, Indiana City Directory (Anderson, Ind., 1906); Ibid., 1907; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 City Directory 1880 (Woodbridge, Conn., 1983), "City
                            Directories of the United States, 1861–1881" Collection, microfilm; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 City Directory 1890 (Woodbridge, Conn., 1983), "City
                            Directories of the United States, 1882–1901" Collection, microfilm; Ibid., 1901; Charles Emerson, Emerson's 
                                    Muncie
                                 Directory 1903–1904 (
                                Muncie
                            , Ind., 1904); An Almanac for the Year 1890: Also the Lives and
                                Portraits of Some Distinguished Authors and Poets (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1891); also city directories for 
                                Decatur
                             (1891, 1899, 1907, 1918), 
                                Jacksonville
                             (1893–94, 1913, 1921–22), and 
                                Springfield
                             (1890, 1900, 1920), 
                                Illinois
                            ; Proceedings of the Fifth Annual Convention of the Grand Lodge of
                                Indiana, Knights of Pythias …, 1902, 
                                    Connersville
                                , Indiana, George P. Stewart Papers, Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     14
                     Washington C. H. and 
                                    Fayette County
                                 Directory, 1906-07 (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     ,
                        1906).
               
                    
                    
                  ELKS' PARADE ON INDIANA
                                AVENUE, INDIANAPOLIS, 1952.
                  Courtesy: O. James Fox Collection, Indiana Historical Society
                (GAR), organized by Civil War veterans. Washington Court House had such a post by 1890, as
                    did 
                        Dayton
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    .15 Both of the latter posts were named after Martin R.
                    Delany—abolitionist, black nationalist, and the first African-American officer in the
                    Union Army.16
            
            Associational activity in midwestern communities during the Gilded Age served a multitude of
                    purposes. One of the primary functions was social—these groups regularly brought people
                    together within a structured setting to interact with each other and offer mutual support.
                    Identification with a larger group also helped to create a social identity beyond the individual and
                    family. Some associations, such as the Odd Fellows and Knights of Pythias, offered more concrete
                    support by providing insurance for sickness and death. Beyond these functions, historians have
                    disputed the relationship between associational activity and the creation of community. Critics
                        
                  
                     15Washington Court House Cyclone and 
                                    Fayette
                                 Republican, October 30, 1889.
                  
                     16City directories for 
                                Dayton
                             (1890-91) and 
                                Indianapolis
                             (1890). A recent biographer believes that after his death in 1885 Delany was
                            forgotten until his rediscovery by black nationalists during the 1960s, but the existence of
                            these GAR posts suggests otherwise. Nell Irvin Painter, "Martin R. Delany: Elitism
                            and Black Nationalism," in Black Leaders of the Nineteenth
                            Century, eds. Leon Litwack and August Meier (
                                Urbana
                            , 111., 1988), 149-71.
               
                     have portrayed black voluntary associations, both sacred and
                    secular, as introverted, divisive and, at best, compensatory for exclusion by whites."
                    Supporters respond that associational activity is widespread, if not universal, among human
                    societies. This being so, it is unfair to single out African-American associationalism for
                        criticism.18 This line of argument, however, is weakened by evidence that
                    voluntary associations are more numerous among African Americans than among European Americans.
                    James Weldon Johnson, for example, notes that Gilded Age black New Yorkers created a seemingly
                    endless proliferation of storefront churches.19 In midwestern communities during
                    the same period, African-American churches do seem to have been more numerous relative to population
                    than European-American. Counts of churches in city directories for 12 towns between 1860 and 1900
                    reveal that in nearly every case the ratio of churches to population was higher for blacks than for
                    whites. Ratios varied from place to place and across time within the same communities, but the
                    ranges and averages were quite different. The number of African Americans per church ranged from 90
                    to 941, with the average at 339. The number of European Americans per church ranged from 461 to
                    1,018, averaging 749.20
            
            Another argument in defense of African-American associationalism is that it functioned as an adaptive
                    mechanism because "these organizations aid[ed] in the adjustment of individuals and groups
                    to new and changing social environments."21 Associational rituals and
                    memberships provided continuity between origin and destination for individual migrants. Even if
                    their stated purpose was different, voluntary associations afforded gathering places where
                    individual tactics could be compared and group strategies hammered out. "Separate
                    organizations and activities," 
                        Spencer
                     Crew writes of 
                        New Jersey
                     small cities during the Gilded Age, "provided blacks the opportunity to bridge
                    the gap between the reality of their circumscribed existence and the rights enjoyed by other
                    residents of the United States."22
            
            
               
                  17Ralph Watkins, "A Reappraisal of the Role of Voluntary
                        Associations in the African American Community," African Americans in 
                                New York
                             Life and History, XTV (July 1990), 51-60.
               
                        18
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  19James Weldon Johnson, Black Manhattan (1930; 
                            New York
                        , 1968), 163-67.
               
                        
                     20The communities and years examined are as follows: 
                                Chillicothe
                             (1860-61, 1894-95) and 
                                Dayton
                             (1880-81, 1891-92), 
                        Ohio;
                                    Columbus
                      (1898-99), 
                                New 
                                        Albany
                                    
                        
                             (1882-83), and 
                                Richmond
                             (1890-91, 1903-04), Indiana; and Alton (1889-90), 
                                Danville
                             (1878-79), 
                                Decatur
                             (1891), 
                                Galesburg
                             (1873-74, 1889-90), 
                                Jacksonville
                             (1893-94), Moline (1878), and 
                                Rock Island
                             (1878), 
                                Illinois
                            . The population figures used for the computation were taken from the nearest
                            census year to the city directory.
                        The sole exception to the pattern was 
                                Chillicothe
                             in 1894-95. This may have resulted from an undercount of churches, however,
                            since this directory listed fewer of both black and white churches than had the directory of
                            1860-61, while both African-American and European-American populations had increased.
                    
               
                  21Watkins, "A Reappraisal," 54.
               
                  22Spencer R. Crew, Black Life in Secondary Cities: A
                            Comparative Analysis of the Black Communities of Camden and Elizabeth, N. J.,
                            1860–1920 (
                            New York
                        , 1993), 149.
            
            
            
               THE EAGLE BAND, MUNCIE, INDIANA, C. 1917. AFRICAN AMERICANS CREATED A WIDE VARIETY OF SOCIAL INSTITUTIONS IN NORTHERN SMALL CITIES.
               Courtesy: Archives and Special Collections, Ball State University Libraries
            
            Associations helped to foster group self-government and to develop leadership. For these reasons,
                    their utility to Gilded Age African Americans living in midwestern small towns is obvious. Nearly
                    all of the migrants had recently moved from southern settings in which African Americans were more
                    numerous and where many of them had been slaves. They had entered a world in which their place was
                    new and undefined. Most of the laws that had delineated African-American status before the war had
                    been largely repealed or, if still on the books, were only sporadically enforced. New customs had
                    not yet taken shape and, indeed, what those customs were to be was an object of controversy. African
                    Americans, united by a history of oppression, were regarded by whites as a monolithic group and
                    often treated as such (as in job discrimination), when in fact they had come from a variety of
                    different backgrounds in their proximate places of origin and may not have generally regarded
                    themselves as united by skin color—which was not uniform in any case. Furthermore, they
                    probably looked forward to a qualitatively different life in the North. Under these circumstances,
                    separate societies represented a first step toward building an African-American community. In
                    Washington Court House, 
                        Ohio
                    , for example, the Second Baptist Church brought together men and women from 
                        Virginia
                    , 
                    
                  North Carolina, Georgia
               , and 
                        Kentucky
                    .23 But African-American associationalism did more than unite people
                    of disparate origins. It also helped equip them for the struggle to define their individual and
                    collective places within the white world.
            John Coleman, who grew up in a midwestern small town (
                        Madison
                    , Indiana), testifies eloquently to the power of separate organization in resisting the
                    effects of an oppressive environment. 
                        Despite the oppression, or perhaps in part because of it, the minority populations were often
                            able to form successful communities of their own. If we had the time, energy, and resources
                            to research this issue, I suspect we would discover that there were many places like 
                                Madison
                            —enclaves of people in neighborhoods who, though disadvantaged,
                            discriminated against, segregated, and socially isolated from the majority because of race,
                            nevertheless had a highly developed social, political, and moral organization.
                        In these Colored, segregated communities, very much like in present-day single-ethnic groups,
                            oppression seemed to have a unifying and energizing force. Likewise, in 
                                Madison
                            , the adversity created by the presence of an oppressing majority seemed to
                            transform the minority population into a mutually caring, loving community with unusually
                            high, almost idealistic, goals, supported by successful examples in both racial groups, who
                            served as role models for achievement.24
                  
                     In 
                  Brooklyn, Illinois
               , both sacred and secular associations helped to prepare John
                    Evans and others to lead an ultimately successful political struggle for control of the
                        community.25 In nearby Alton, members of the United Brothers of Friendship
                    and their women's branch, the Sisters of the Mysterious Ten, guided an eleven-year
                    political and legal battle (1897-1908) against school resegregation. Members of these organizations
                    took the lead in conflicts against white hegemony in other 
                        Illinois
                     towns as well.26 Women's clubs in 
                        Chicago
                     and in downstate 
                        Illinois
                     moved easily between social, charitable, and political activity.27
                    In struggles to widen African Americans' "circumscribed existence,"
                    community took concrete form. Robert Wiebe has powerfully shaped scholars' understanding of
                    Gilded-Age small towns and their relations with the wider world. 
                  
                     23"Autobiographic Sketch of the New Second Baptist
                            Church."
                  
                     24Don Wallis, All We Had Was Each Other: The Black
                                Community of 
                                    Madison
                                , Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1998), 28-29.
                  
                     25Sundiata Keita Cha-Jua, America's First Black
                                Town: 
                           Brooklyn, Illinois
                        , 1830-1915 (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 2000), 105.
                  
                     26Shirley J. Portwood, "The Alton School Case and African
                            American Community Consciousness, 1897-1908," 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Historical Journal, XCI (Spring 1998), 2-20; Portwood,
                            "'We Lift Our Voices in Thunder Tones': African American Race Men
                            and Race Women and Community Agency in Southern 
                                Illinois
                            , 1895-1910," Journal of Urban History, XXVI
                            (September 2000), 740-58. For the importance of African-American religious and secular
                            organizations in grass-roots political activity in the South, see Harold S. Forsythe,
                            "But My Friends Are Poor": Ross 
                                Hamilton
                             and Freedpeople's Politics in Mecklenburg County, 
                                Virginia
                            , 1869-1901," 
                        
                                    Virginia
                                 Magazine of History and Biography, CV (Autumn 1997), 409-39.
                  
                     27Anne Meis Knupfer, Toward a Tenderer Humanity and a
                                Nobler Womanhood: African American Women's Clubs in Turn-of-the-Century 
                                    Chicago
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1996); Wanda A. Hendricks, Gender, Race, and Politics in the
                                Midwest: Black Club Women in 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1998).
               
                     In a justly influential book, Wiebe invoked modernization
                    theory—in particular the Gemeinschaft—Gesellschaft (i.e.,
                    community—society) distinction—in labeling late nineteenth-century towns as
                    "island communities," insular and introverted, and preoccupied with local
                        affairs.28 Wiebe, however, overstated small towns' insularity.
                    Midwestern towns were linked to larger regional, national, and even international systems by a
                    constant flow of commerce, people, and information, welded together by a dense railway network,
                    which as early as 1880 left few midwestern urban places isolated.29 By the time
                    the Depression of 1873 put a temporary halt to construction, 73 percent of the land in 
                        Illinois
                     was within five miles of a railroad.30 This already impressive
                    infrastructure was further elaborated, extended, and connected to other regional systems during the
                    1880s and early 1890s. In 1888, Washington Court House was connected through the 
                        Columbus
                     & 
                        Cincinnati
                     Midland Railway to 
                  Indianapolis,
                            Louisville, St.
                        Louis
               , and 
                        New Orleans
                    , and to 
                  Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Baltimore
               , and Washington, D.C., through the 
                        Baltimore
                     & 
                        Ohio
                     system. The town was also still served by its first railway connection on the 
                        Cincinnati
                     & Muskingum Valley line, which had been completed during the early 1850s and
                    linked to the Pennsylvania Railroad and the 
                        Ohio
                     Southern (which in turn connected with the B & O). Still under construction was
                    the 
                        Dayton
                    , Fort 
                        Wayne
                     & 
                        Chicago
                    , which ran only from 
                        Dayton
                     to Ironton, 
                        Ohio
                    .31 In the 1890s 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, enjoyed three passenger services running east to west. One of these was the
                            
                  Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago
               , and 
                        St. Louis
                    —colloquially known as the "Big Four"—which sent
                    three trains per day eastward through 
                        Muncie
                     from 
                        St. Louis
                    . 
                  Springfield, Ohio
               , also had access to three major east-west systems
                    including the Big Four, as well as the 
                        Ohio
                     Southern running north and south. 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , was
                    blessed (or cursed by travelers making changes) by four railroad stations serving major north-south
                    lines, notably the 
                        Illinois
                     Central, and a principal east-west system, the 
                        Wabash
                     Line.32 Steamboats on the Great Lakes and the major midwestern
                    rivers—not only the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                    , but also the Muskingum, 
                  Wabash, Illinois
               , and others—supplemented the
                    railway network.
            The Midwest's superb transportation network allowed people considerable freedom of movement
                    for all purposes, over short or long distances, for temporary or permanent moves. Only a minority of
                    midwestern townspeople remained in the same community for as long as ten years between censuses. In
                    Washington Court House, for 
                  
                     28Robert H. Wiebe, The Search for Order: 1877-1920 (
                                New York
                            , 1967).
                  
                     29See, for example, the map of Indiana's railway network in
                            1880, in Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                                1850–1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965), 351.
                  
                     30John H. Keiser, Building for the Centuries: 
                                    Illinois
                                , 1865 to 1898 (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1977), 156.
                  
                     31Washington Court House Cyclone, August 1, 1888,
                            October 30, 1889.
                  
                     32
                     Travelers' Official Railway Guide
                            …. (
                                New York
                            , 1893). June issue.
               
                     example, those who could be traced from one census to the next
                    comprised only three-eighths of the population during the 1860s and two-fifths during the 1870s. The
                    typical town contained a stable core, an elite who controlled a disproportionate share of political
                    offices and wealth, and around this core swirled a constantly changing array of transients.33
            
            News circulated through the Midwest even faster than people. By the 1870s, the telegraph system had
                    been extended and improved for more than thirty years, and it allowed rapid transmission of large
                    bodies of information. Mail arrived in every railroad town on nearly every incoming train, and
                    departed with the same frequency. At the turn of the century midwesterners were accustomed to a
                    speed of written communication that was probably not equalled until the coming of facsimile
                    transmission and electronic mail near the turn of the next century. The laying of the Atlantic
                    cable, completed in 1866, gave North Americans quick access to European news and, through British
                    sources, news from much of the rest of the world. Within midwestern towns and cities, a flourishing
                    press disseminated the news gathered by cable and telegraph. By the late 1860s, Washington Court
                    House, below the urban threshold with only 2,100 residents, boasted two weekly
                    newspaper—one Democratic, one Republican—which were bitterly partisan. As well
                    as local news, they published boiler-plate pages distributed by central agencies containing news,
                    features, and commentary on subjects familiar and exotic. Such print saturation was typical.
            African Americans easily adopted the habits of their fellow midwesterners. Once settled in midwestern
                    communities, they traveled about the countryside visiting friends, family, co-workers, and business
                    contacts. During a six-month period beginning in November 1879, African Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     received recorded visits from residents of seventeen other towns in Indiana, six in 
                        Ohio
                    , and two in 
                        Illinois
                    , as well as visitors from 
                  Iowa,
                            Missouri, Michigan
               , Pennsylvania, the District of 
                  Columbia, North Carolina, Kentucky, Tennessee,
                            Alabama
               , and 
                        Mississippi
                    . Meanwhile, 
                        Indianapolis
                     travelers journeyed to at least eleven other statewide destinations, as well as four 
                        Ohio
                     and two 
                        Illinois
                     towns, 
                        New York
                     City, 
                  St. Louis, Louisville, Lexington
               , and 
                        Nashville
                    .34 During 1891, blacks in 
                        Springfield
                    , 
                  
                     33The classic study of mobility is Stephan Thernstrom and Peter
                            Knights, "Men in Motion: Some Data and Speculations about Urban Population Mobility
                            in Nineteenth-Century America," in Anonymous Americans: Explorations
                                in Nineteenth-Century Social History, ed. Tamara K. Hareven (Englewood Cliffs, N.
                            J., 1971), 17-47; Richard S. Alcorn, "Leadership and Stability in
                            mid-Nineteenth-Century America: A Case Study of an 
                                Illinois
                             Town," Journal of American History, LVI (December
                            1974), 685-702.
                  
                     34
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Leader, November 1879-May 1880. The pioneering study of African-American
                            visiting practices is Earl Lewis, In Their Own Interests: Race, Class, and
                                Power in Twentieth-Century Norfolk, 
                                    Virginia
                                
                      (Berkeley, Calif., 1991), 102-104, 106-109.
               
                    
                    
                        Illinois
                    , entertained visitors from at least thirty-one other 
                        Illinois
                     towns, as well as from communities in Indiana, 
                  Missouri, Kansas, Iowa, Oklahoma
                Territory, 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee, Colorado
               , and 
                        Louisiana
                    . 
                        Springfield
                     residents, in turn, traveled to at least thirty-one other 
                        Illinois
                     communities and to visit friends or family in 
                  Missouri, Nebraska, Kansas, Colorado, Wisconsin, Minnesota
               , the District of 
                  Columbia, Tennessee
               , and 
                        Georgia
                    .35 The 
                        Cleveland
                    
                    Gazette received notices from Oberlin, 
                        Ohio
                    , that "Ex-sheriff H. P. Scott, of 
                        Mississippi
                    , is here to spend the summer with his family,"36 and from 
                        Springfield
                     that "Elder C. L. Bradwell of Cartersville, Ga., preached an excellent
                    discourse at North Street Church last Sunday. He left for his home Tuesday," and that
                    "Mr. E. J. Smoot, of 
                        Paris
                    , Ky., is in the city, looking for a place to locate a good business."37 A host of special occasions brought visitors to midwestern towns and
                    congregated African Americans together. These occasions included Sunday School conventions,
                    preachers exchanging pulpits or visiting other clergymen, group baptisms, fraternal-society
                    conferences, political conventions, GAR reunions and encampments, emancipation celebrations, state
                    fairs, women's mission conventions, teachers' conventions, and cake-walk contests.
                    A 1906 emancipation celebration in Paducah, 
                        Kentucky
                    , for example, drew thousands of celebrants who came by boat and by rail from as far as 
                        Chicago
                     to the north, 
                        St. Louis
                     to the west, 
                        Louisville
                     to the east, and 
                        Memphis
                     to the south.38 All such gatherings created links among the
                    African-American communities scattered across the midwestern landscape and beyond.39
            
            News also traveled between black communities. African Americans, of course, had access to the
                    omnipresent white press, but such newspapers tended to render African Americans as invisible,
                    criminal or ludicrous.40 So, from an early point in the Gilded Age, African
                    Americans published their own newspapers. The 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Conservator began publication in 1878, and Indiana's first black
                    newspaper, the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Visitor, appeared in the next year, followed shortly afterward by the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Leader. The 
                        Cleveland
                    
                    Gazette started up in 1883. Many more followed, and the midwestern newspapers
                    became part of a northern array that dominated African-American publishing. By 1910, only eleven
                    percent of the nation's black population 
                  
                     35
                     
                                Springfield
                             (
                                Illinois
                            ) State Capital, January-December 1891.
                  
                     36
                     
                                Cleveland
                            
                            Gazette, June 26, 1886.
                  
                            37
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     38Darrel Bigham, Towns and Villages of the Lower 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1998), 233-34.
                  
                     39Washington Court House hosted the convention of 
                                Ohio
                            's Prince Hall Masons in 1888 and the reunion of the 5th and 27th
                            Regiments, U. S. Colored Troops, in 1902. Washington Court House Cyclone,
                            August 22, 1888; 
                                Urbana
                            
                            Informer, August 1902.
                  
                     40J. Stanley Lemons, "Black Stereotypes as Reflected in
                            Popular Culture, 1880–1920," American Quarterly, XXIX
                            (Spring 1977), 102-16; William L. Hewitt, "Blackface in the White Mind: Racial
                            Stereotypes in Sioux City, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1874-1910," Palimpsest, LXXI (Summer 1990),
                        68-79.
               
                    
                    
                  CLIPPING FROM THE CLEVELAND
                            ADVOCATE
                     , OCTOBER 27, 1917. MEMBERS OF BLACK CHURCHES WORKED TO EASE THE TRANSITION OF RECENT MIGRANTS FROM
                                THE SOUTH.
                  Courtesy: 
                                Ohio
                             Historical Society
               
                     lived outside the South, but thirty-seven percent of
                    African-American newspapers were published there. When Robert S. Abbott's 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Defender began publication in 1905, it became the sixth African-American newspaper
                    published simultaneously in that city.41 On the initiative of editors such as
                    Abbott, Harry C. Smith of the 
                        Cleveland
                    
                    Gazette, S. B. Turner of the 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , State Capital, Charles E. Hall of the 
                        Illinois
                    
                    Record of the same city, Edward E. Cooper of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    World and Freeman, George L. Knox of the Freeman, and George P. Stewart of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Recorder—not to mention poet and novelist Paul Laurence Dunbar, who
                    briefly edited the 
                  Urbana, Ohio
               , Informer—midwestern
                    African-American newspapers created a powerful nexus of communication among black communities.42
            
            The newspapers' communication nexus was primarily based not on reporters but on
                    correspondents. The papers were generally one- or two-person operations, so for news of local events
                    in their circulation zone they depended upon community residents who wrote to the editor on a more
                    or less regular basis with information on local affairs. Correspondents' reports usually
                    focused on the mundane acts and events that made up daily life: illnesses, injuries, courtships,
                    weddings, funerals, visits, journeys, business transactions, weather, celebrations, and the like.
                    Community residents were congratulated, commemorated, criticized, and teased. Occasionally politics
                    appeared in correspondents' reports, but not often. Instead, the editors provided the
                    newspapers' political content, editorializing incessantly in support of their chosen
                    candidates and party, usually Republican. When white editors insulted African Americans in their
                    columns, black editors fired back. In 1879, for example, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, recounting the Democratic theme that recent African-American migrants
                    were penniless drones brought to bolster the Republican vote, reported, "One of these
                    importations confessed that he had no money." The editor of the Leader
                    replied, "He thought you wanted to borrow it."43
            
            The newspapers' catchment areas for local community news varied. Some editors focused on
                    their immediate area, while others sought a larger regional or even national audience. Most
                    correspondents to the 
                        New 
                                Albany
                            
                  
                    
                    Weekly Review in 1881 wrote from towns in southeastern Indiana and southwestern 
                        Ohio
                    .44 The Leader addressed itself primarily to an
                    Indiana audience.45 By 1892 the six-year-old 
                  
                     41Emma Lou Thornbrough, "American Negro Newspapers,
                            1880–1914," Business History Review, XL (Winter 1966),
                            467-90.
                  
                     42A. Gilbert Belles, "The Black Press in 
                                Illinois
                            ," Journal of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society, LXVIII (1975), 344-52, contains a list of
                            papers and editors, but there are a few errors. Belles's list tries for
                            comprehensiveness, listing many papers for which there are no surviving copies. For a
                            listing of extant 
                                Ohio
                             African-American newspapers, see Stephen Gutgesell, Guide to 
                                    Ohio
                                 Newspapers, 1793–1973 (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     ,
                            1976).
                  
                     43
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Leader, November 29, 1879.
                  
                     44
                     
                                New 
                                        Albany
                                    
                        
                             (Indiana) Weekly Review, April 16, 1881.
                  
                     45Between January and June 1880, the Leader
                            published correspondence from 18 Indiana and four 
                                Ohio
                             towns, as well as from 
                        Louisville, Chicago
                      and 
                                St. Louis
                            .
               
                    
                    
                        Springfield
                    
                    State Capital achieved wide coverage of 
                        Illinois
                     towns and cities, publishing correspondence from forty-one communities.46 The 
                        Cleveland
                    
                    Gazette was probably the most effective in creating a network of correspondents
                    that was both regional and national. (This was probably out of necessity as much as choice, since
                    the 
                        Cleveland
                     black community at this time was tiny, and its immediate area, the Western Reserve,
                    also contained relatively few African Americans. But the network was also a product of editor Harry
                    Smith's racial activism.) During the last six months of 1886—only three years
                    after its founding—the Gazette printed correspondence from sixty-six
                    towns in 
                        Ohio
                    , eighteen in Pennsylvania, nine in 
                        New York
                    , five in Indiana, three each in West 
                  Virginia, Illinois
                and 
                        Kansas
                    , and two in 
                        Kentucky
                     (as well as individual communities in 
                        Ontario
                    , Rhode Island, 
                  New Hampshire,
                            Michigan, Wisconsin, Nebraska, Maryland, Tennessee, Georgia, Mississippi, Arkansas
               , and 
                        Texas
                    ). Both the State Capital and Gazette networks
                    included towns ranging in size from the largest cities to tiny hamlets containing only a handful of
                    African-American residents.47 Even before George L. Knox took over the Freeman in 1892, the paper was seeking agents in "every city, town, and
                    hamlet in the U.S." 
                        Knox
                     adopted his predecessor's aggressive tactics, and by 1893 the Freeman had achieved a broad national reach, although this was accompanied by relative
                    neglect of its immediate area. During the last two months of that year, Freeman
                    correspondents reported on affairs in communities located in twelve northern and western states, all
                    of the former slave states except 
                        South Carolina
                    , the Canadian province of 
                        Ontario
                    , and Liberia.48 Because they could comment freely on matters off
                    limits to African-American editors in the South, northern black newspapers were often preferred by
                    southern black readers.49
            
            The Midwest's African-American newspapers played a large and indispensable part in creating
                    and sustaining a national African-American public discourse. The foundation of that discourse was
                    the system of exchanges among newspapers. American newspapers of this period typically sent out
                    copies of each issue to many other newspapers and customarily received issues from the recipient
                    papers in return. For the African-American newspapers, exchanges furnished much of the formal news
                    reporting in their columns (although because black newspapers during the Gilded Age were weeklies,
                    African-American readers seeking fresh news no doubt relied first upon European-American
                        dailies).50 More important, exchanges provided 
                  
                     46
                     
                                Springfield
                            
                            State Capital, 1891-92.
                  
                     47
                     
                                Cleveland
                            
                            Gazette, June 26-December 25, 1886.
                  
                     48Thornbrough, "American Negro Newspapers."
                  
                     49Thornbrough, "American Negro Newspapers," 472;
                            Neil R. McMillen, Dark Journey: Black Mississippians in the Age of Jim
                            Crow (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1989), 175.
                  
                     50African-American newspapers, even if they could afford the fee, were
                            not admitted to the Associated Press. Thornbrough, "American Negro
                            Newspapers," 486.
               
                    
                    
                  ANNOUNCEMENT FROM THE COLUMBUS, OHIO, STATE MONITOR
                     , APRIL 10, 1920. MANY BLACK CHURCHES SERVED AS CENTERS FOR
                                COMMUNITY ORGANIZING.
                  Courtesy: 
                                Ohio
                             Historical Society
                the raw material for running commentary on the pronouncements of other editors.
                    African-American editors did respond occasionally to sallies by white editors that touched a raw
                    nerve, but their attention was focused primarily on what other black editors, politicians, and
                    clergymen were saying and doing. The resulting conversation took place within a limited framework,
                    to be sure, as the viewpoints expressed were those of a middle-class elite. But in this respect
                    black public discourse differed not at all from white public discourse. The important point is that
                    editorial arguments involved readers, if only as spectators, in discussions about the conditions,
                    strategies, and future direction of African Americans as a people. In doing so, the newspapers
                    supplemented and extended the work of the churches and voluntary associations in creating and
                    sustaining an African-American identity beyond the individual and the familial.
            Associational ties and communications networks also sustained political struggles against the racism
                    that African Americans confronted  in the Midwest. This process
                    can be seen in a conflict provoked by white racism in Spring Valley, a coal-mining town in northern 
                        Illinois
                    . In August 1895, a mob of immigrant miners attacked a settlement near the town that
                    housed black miners and their families, driving them away. While the displaced workers reorganized
                    in a nearby town, the African-American press publicized the events, and supporters mobilized across 
                        Illinois
                    . Reports of the Spring Valley riot appeared in black newspapers as far away as 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     to the east and 
                        Topeka
                     to the west. Within 
                        Illinois
                    , protest meetings were held in Peoria, 
                        Evanston
                    , Rockford, Elgin, East 
                        St. Louis
                    , and Moline, as well as 
                        Chicago
                    . Contributions from supporters enabled the victims to pressure local authorities into
                    launching criminal prosecutions, which ended with the conviction and imprisonment of eight
                        rioters.51
            
            Local conflicts did not always end so successfully for African Americans. The struggle against
                    resegregation of the Alton, 
                        Illinois
                    , schools, for example, ended in defeat after a sit-in, an eleven-year long school
                    boycott, seven jury trials, and five appeals to the state supreme court. Like their counterparts in
                    Spring Valley, the black community in Alton received support from communities elsewhere in 
                        Illinois
                     and beyond. Such local and extralocal mobilization would have been impossible to
                    conceive or achieve for communities of black migrants without the networks constructed within and
                    among midwestern towns.
            Clearly, not only residents of small towns and small cities took part in the networks created by
                    black southern migrants to the Midwest during the postbellum years. Voluntary associations appeared
                    in large numbers in northern metropolitan centers, and rural dwellers both constructed their own
                    networks and participated in those that grew in their local urban centers.52 But
                    non-metropolitan urban places, both in the North and in the South, played a unique role in the
                    formation of African-American culture. In these settings, black migrants from diverse backgrounds
                    came together; later, as many of those migrants moved on to the big cities, they brought with them
                    the experience of building new institutions and new connections in small towns and small cities.
            
               
                  51Copies of articles from the 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Tribune, August 5, 7, 8, 10, 1895, and Daily Inter Ocean,
                        October 21, November 2, 18, 25, 1895, Negro in 
                            Illinois
                         File, 
                            Illinois
                         Writers Project Collection, Vivian G. Harsh Research Collection (
                            Chicago
                         Public Library); Caroline A. Waldron, "'Lynch-law Must
                        Go!': Race, Citizenship, and the Other in an American Coal Mining Town," Journal of American Ethnic History, XX (Fall 2000), 50-77; Felix L. Armfield,
                        "Fire on the Prairies: The 1895 Spring Valley Race Riot," Journal
                            of 
                                Illinois
                             History, III (Autumn 2000), 185-200.
               
                  52The best recent portrait of midwestern rural communities is Stephen A.
                        Vincent, Southern Seed, Northern Soil: African-American Farm Communities in the
                            Midwest, 1765–1900 (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1999).
            
         
         
         
            Reviews
            
               
                  
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana: Its Physical Development and Aesthetic Heritage to 1920. By Mary
                    Raddant Tomlan and Michael A. Tomlan. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 2003. Pp. xviii, 364. Illustrations, appendix, tables,
                    notes, bibliography, index. $39.95.)
            This book is extraordinarily impressive. Aesthetically, it meets the highest standards—it
                    is attractively presented, amply illustrated, and mechanically flawless. The authors have undertaken
                    a mass of research over two decades, especially in newspapers, and the work is thoroughly and
                    appropriately documented. There are no detectable errors in its thousands of factual statements. The
                    prose is readable and accessible. Most of all, the authors display enormous good sense throughout,
                    not going farther than their sources will support and seamlessly weaving together the architectural,
                    artistic, economic, social, ethnic, and religious history of 
                        Richmond
                    . In short, this book is an accomplishment both for its authors and its publisher.
            
               
                        Richmond
                     deserves this kind of treatment. In the nineteenth century, it was the largest city in
                    what had long been the wealthiest county in Indiana. After 1860, as 
                  Indianapolis, Evansville
               , and Fort 
                        Wayne
                     surpassed it, 
                        Richmond
                     still grew at an impressive rate, with wealth above Indiana norms. Its influential 
                        Quaker
                     minority gave it a reputation for thrift, order, and morality. Later in the century, 
                        Richmond
                     acquired a reputation as a place that took the fine arts seriously. Painters like John
                    Elwood Bundy and George H. Baker were well known, while the 
                        Richmond
                     Art Association, formed in 1897, was one of the first in the state.
            The Tomlans' approach is basically chronological. A deft sketch of the city's
                    founding by Quakers from the Carolinas, and the impact of the construction of the National Road in
                    the 1820s, brings one to the first 
                        Richmond
                     buildings (mainly churches and private homes) for which we have any descriptions or
                    images. Railroad construction in the 1850s gave new energy to local factories, which turned out farm
                    implements, furniture, and iron and sheet metal. This growth and wealth provided a foundation for a
                    building boom that began before the Civil War and continued to the authors' terminal date
                    of 1920. Different chapters treat factories, homes, schools, commercial and business buildings, and
                    churches. The authors also pay attention to facilities like the city's
                    parks—especially the largest, Glen Miller—and even cemeteries. Always,
                    however, they integrate 
                        Richmond
                    's architecture within a context of economic growth and change.
            There is no such thing as a "typical" American city, but what partly justifies a
                    study of 
                        Richmond
                     is the extent to which it followed larger cultural trends. No 
                        Richmond
                     building was ever on a "cutting edge," the recipient of national
                    attention. 
                        Richmond
                    's architects were, for the most part, local men, and they were not innovators,
                    content  instead to imitate popular and prevailing styles. But
                    as the Tomlans also note, they sometimes adapted national movements and trends to local needs, such
                    as in the ban of merry-go-rounds and other amusements from Glen Miller Park, or the incorporation of
                    an art gallery in the high school built in 1909.
            A few small changes would have improved this marvelous book. While it is mercifully free of jargon, a
                    glossary of architectural terms would have helped this reader, whose vocabulary had not previously
                    included "quoin" and "architrave." And while the book includes
                    several maps to illustrate the city's growth, an additional one of the contemporary city,
                    at least its older section, would have helped place the many buildings treated that are still
                    standing. But these are minor quibbles. This is local history at its best: beautifully produced,
                    readable, accessible, and scholarly.
            THOMAS D. HAMM is archivist and professor of history at
                    Earlham College in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana. He has written extensively on 
                        Quaker
                     and Midwestern history. His most recent work is The Quakers in
                    America (2003).
         
         
            
               Spokesman for Democracy: Claude G. Bowers, 1878–1958. By Peter J.
                    Sehlinger and Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    . Foreword by Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 2000. Pp. xxi, 358. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            By the time he was forty-five, Claude Bowers was an accomplished and influential Hoosier. He had
                    grown up in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the 1880s and 1890s, graduated from high school at a time when few did, won a state
                    oratory contest, pursued a career in journalism in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , become active in state politics, established friendships with Indiana notables Albert
                    Beveridge, Eugene Debs, Samuel Ralston, and Thomas Taggert, twice run unsuccessfully for Congress,
                    served for six years as secretary to U.S. Senator (and Senate Democratic majority leader) John Kern,
                    and become the editorial writer for the Fort 
                        Wayne
                    
                    Journal-Gazette. An extraordinary life for a poor boy from 
                        Westfield
                    , but this was only a beginning. In the following decade Bowers left Indiana to became
                    an influential progressive editorialist for Joseph Pulitzer's 
                        New York
                    
                    World and later for William Randolph Hearst's 
                        New York
                    
                    Journal, a speechwriter and adviser to presidential candidates Alfred E. Smith and 
                        Franklin
                     Roosevelt, the keynote speaker at the 1928 Democratic National Convention, and, not
                    least, a best-selling author.
            During the 1920s Bowers extolled the Democratic party in a series of vividly written, powerfully
                    argued, and admittedly partisan popular histories of nineteenth-century political conflict. The Party Battles of the Jackson Period (1922), Jefferson and 
                            Hamilton
                        : The Struggle for Democracy in America (1925), and The Tragic
                        Era: Revolution After
                    
                    Lincoln (1929) were best sellers that overshadowed more scholarly and balanced
                    accounts in shaping public perceptions of the nation's past. Jefferson and 
                            Hamilton
                        
                drew a sharp contrast between an inspirational democrat and an elitist
                    proto-Republican. Bowers's characterizations were "thrilling," according
                    to Franklin D. Roosevelt in the only book review he ever published. The Tragic
                    Era, an account that excoriated Republican conduct following the Civil War and justified the
                    rise of the solid Democratic South, helped mold a generation's racist views of
                    Reconstruction. Though never again with such influential effect, Bowers continued to write history,
                    biography, and memoirs during his twenty-year career as U.S. ambassador to Spain and Chile and even
                    after his retirement in 1953.
            Bowers's most notable feat may have been to help heal the 1920s split between northern and
                    southern Democrats. He did so by recalling both a glorious shared past, in the age of Jefferson and
                    Jackson, and a shared ill-fortune in the face of overweening Republican power during Reconstruction.
                    His 1928 keynote speech to the Democratic National convention in 
                        Houston
                    , one of the few such speeches ever given by someone other than an elected official, was
                    regarded as a triumph. In a useful foreword to this volume, Arthur Schlesinger Jr. places the speech
                    "among the most effective political orations of the century." In 1929 Bowers
                    declared that if the Democratic party did not appreciate The Tragic Era,
                    "I have written my last line in an attempt to serve it."
            Holman 
                        Hamilton
                    , a childhood neighbor of Bowers and a journalist before becoming an academic historian,
                    began work on this biography in the 1950s. Peter J. Sehlinger, now a retired IUPUI professor, took
                    over the half-finished project upon 
                        Hamilton
                    's death in 1980 and completed its substantial domestic and foreign archival
                    research. Sehlinger and 
                        Hamilton
                    's narrative is more impressive in listing Bowers's political and
                    literary contacts and his state political activities than in examining the evolution of his thought
                    or the extent of his influence. Unfortunately, though they quote many favorable reviews, the authors
                    offer little detail about the gestation and substance of Bowers's books, much less their
                    relationship to existing literature. The importance of his political speeches, particularly those in
                    1928, is asserted but not altogether adequately elaborated or contextualized. Likewise, the authors
                    often capture Bowers's personal activities better than the larger historical context of his
                    life, as, for example, when Bowers shifted from journalism to diplomacy during the Spanish Civil
                    War, World War II, and the early Cold War. Sehlinger and 
                        Hamilton
                    's book does not represent the fully satisfying biography of Claude Bowers that
                    the influential Hoosier deserves.
            DAVID E. KYVIG is professor of history at Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University, 
                        DeKalb
                    , and the author of a March 1977 Indiana Magazine of History article
                    on Bowers's The Tragic Era. He is the recipient of the 1997 Bancroft
                    Prize for his book Explicit and Authentic Acts: Amending the U.S. Constitution,
                        1776–1995.
            
         
         
         
            
               Faith and Action: A History of ‘the Archdiocese of 
                            Cincinnati
                        ’, 1821–1996. By Roger Fortin. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, 2002. Pp. xvii, 489. Illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $35.00.)
            This book provides a comprehensive study of how Catholicism has been organized and lived in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and the surrounding area from the early nineteenth to the end of the twentieth century.
                    Written in honor of the Archdiocese's 175th anniversary (and with the support of both the
                    Archdiocese and of Xavier University in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where Richard Fortin teaches history), the book relates what the author calls a
                    "success story" (p. 391) of "almost constant adaptation and
                    change" (p. xiii). The result is a thorough investigation of one of America's
                    great Catholic archdioceses, based in one of the most historically significant cities in the
                    Midwest.
            At the time of its founding in 1821, the then diocese of 
                        Cincinnati
                     encompassed the whole region of the original Northwest Territory, including Indiana.
                    From the mid-nineteenth century to the present the Archdiocese of 
                        Cincinnati
                     has included all of southern 
                        Ohio
                    . Because the book is about one of the largest and most important religious groups
                    within that broad area, it proves equally valuable for its insights into the history of the city and
                    the region.
            Fortin's scope and focus remain on the institutions and leadership of the church. Official
                    church records, including those of the archdiocese, the correspondence of 
                        Cincinnati
                     bishops and archbishops, and the diocesan newspaper The Catholic
                    Telegraph, form the backbone of the book's research. As a result of both the sources
                    and the subject matter, the book's organization follows chronologically the tenure of
                    bishops and archbishops.
            Despite its conventional structure, the book defines the church more broadly than have previous
                    institutional histories, such as John H. Lamott's History of the Archdiocese
                        of 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1821–1921 (1921). Fortin includes a wealth of information about
                    individual parishes, priests, male religious orders, and communities of women religious such as
                    religious orders and sodalities. Fortin makes his strongest contribution by illuminating the efforts
                    of Catholic lay men and women who financially support the work of the archdiocese and who
                    participate in masses and religious devotions (pp. 264-65). The author delves less deeply into
                    private religious life and the non-religious activities of lay Catholics, although his discussion of
                    Catholic schools and social services demonstrates well the impact of the actions of 
                        Cincinnati
                     Catholics on the larger culture and society.
            The book also reaches beyond purely local concerns, highlighting the international connections
                    between the archdiocese and European Catholic organizations such as the Sacred Congregation of the
                    Propagation of the Faith and the Leopoldine Foundation. The author  analyzes the interaction of Catholics with other religious groups and
                    with anti-Catholics. He also shows the church's responses to political developments from
                    the Civil War to twentieth-century immigration and to recent local and national elections.
            Although mostly a sympathetic, positive, and even celebratory account of the successful development
                    and growth of Catholic religious institutions, Fortin's detailed account does not avoid
                    controversies such as conflicts between priests and laity, financial crises, and even recent
                    accusations of sexual misconduct. Perhaps not as critical as some recent scholarship on religion in
                    America, Faith and Action provides a detailed account of an important institution
                    in an important midwestern city. The book is a fitting addition to Zane Miller's ambitious
                    urban life and landscape series, which has made particular contributions to the understanding of
                    midwestern cities and to a deeper view of the historical importance of 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            JOHN BUGGELN is chairman of the history department at
                    Archmere Academy, an independent Catholic high school in Claymont, 
                        Delaware
                    . He recently completed an Indiana University—
                        Bloomington
                     doctoral dissertation in history, "A Marketplace for Religion, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 1788–1890."
         
         
            
               Regionalism and Reform: Art and Class Formation in Antebellum 
                            Cincinnati
                        . By Wendy Jean Katz. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, 2002. Pp. xx, 264. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $45.00.)
            Wendy Jean Katz's book is a remarkable contribution to nineteenth-century American art
                    history and history. Katz argues that a recognizably "national" culture was
                    created in localities rather than emanating solely, or as a one-way street, from 
                        New York
                    . Using a social history approach, she examines art and art associations in the most
                    important art center of the West of the 1840s and 1850s. Katz asserts that, through institutions
                    like the Western Museum, the 
                        Ohio
                     Mechanics Institute, the Semi-Colon Club, the Young Men's Mercantile Library,
                    the Society for the Promotion of Useful Knowledge, and the Western Art Union, Cincinnatians learned
                    the language of public benefit and moral improvement, and cultivated such virtues as self-control
                    and empathy. She then devotes a chapter each to three artists who had strong 
                        Cincinnati
                     ties, examining the ways in which their images helped to constitute a moral reform
                    ideology.
            In "Lilly Martin 
                        Spencer
                     and the Art of Refinement," Katz argues that 
                        Spencer
                    's paintings, with their humorous, conversational, and labor-intensive style
                    depicting the everyday life of women and children in the home, acted as a model for a civilized
                    society that saw beauty in unselfishness and charm in order. She adroitly examines connections
                    between 
                        Spencer
                    's genre scenes—with their 
                    emphasis on order, arrangement, and self-monitoring, as well as on women's
                    "natural" piety and morality—and commonly read publications such as
                    etiquette books and McGuffey's Readers. She also explores the ways in
                    which 
                        Spencer
                    's images of African-American children playing "dress-up"
                    reinforced white viewers' sense of social respectability and racial superiority with humor
                    akin to the stereotypes of blackface minstrel shows.
            In her chapter on "Robert S. Duncanson: City and Hinterland," Katz asserts that
                    Duncanson's landscapes elevated viewers by offering universal values apparently free from
                    individual or selfish interests. However, she also points out that Duncanson's panoramic
                    view of 
                        Cincinnati
                     from 
                        Kentucky
                     affirmed the belief of local boosters that the city's greatness lay in its
                    position on the 
                        Ohio
                     River and in its absorption of southern industry. However, Duncanson's vision
                    included free African Americans sharing the prospects of the city's growth. This hope was
                    shared by his business partner, daguerreotypist J.P. Ball, who displayed Duncanson's
                    paintings in his fashionable parlor. Katz parallels such a vision with the abolitionist message of
                    Harriet Beecher Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin and the dreamy
                    paradises inspired by Romantic poets.
            In her third profile, "Hiram Powers and Dueling Codes of Honor," Katz suggests that
                    Powers's neoclassical sculptures were meant to demonstrate that the body's
                    surfaces reveal inner human qualities, the very exhibition of which could reform viewers. She
                    analyzes the Greek Slave—a naked woman "clothed" in
                    virtue, in the eyes of civilized individuals—in terms of Northern and Southern
                    conceptions of honor, the latter valuing appearances (rather than a demonstration of the truth)
                    above all. She also argues that Powers's reliable and accurate likenesses of celebrities
                    and his idealized busts of mythic women, with their exquisite polish and porosity, moved the
                    conception of the selfless, disinterested ideal woman from the public sphere into domestic space
                    (especially when copies were wedding gifts), thereby forging bonds of obligation, dependence, and
                    honor.
            In conclusion, Katz convincingly asserts that, for civic boosters and reformers, art and refinement
                    could create a more harmonious culture in the West, and therefore in the heart of the nation.
            On the whole, the book is attractive, but several design choices are perplexing. There are no color
                    illustrations—especially lamentable in the case of 
                        Spencer
                    's and Duncanson's paintings. On the cover, the title appears in three
                    different fonts with the subtitle placed far away in a column in the upper right. And not only is
                    the cover reproduction, Proserpine, misidentified as The Greek
                    Slave on the back of the book jacket, but the white marble bust is oddly colored green. Yet
                    these minor concerns in no way mar the fact that Katz's study is a significant and
                    compelling one—thoroughly researched and documented, clearly and persuasively written,
                    and refreshing  with its new insights into the ways in which
                    artists and urban reformers mutually sought to elevate society.
            THERESA LEININGER-MILLER is associate
                    professor of art history at the University of 
                        Cincinnati
                     and author of New Negro Artists in 
                            Paris
                        : African American Painters and Sculptors in the City of Light,
                    1922–1934 (2001). She is currently writing a critical biography of sculptor Augusta
                    Savage, and curating an exhibition on J.P. Ball (ca. 1850-1870s) for the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Art Museum (scheduled to open ca. 2006).
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                        : City of the Century. Produced and directed by Austin Hoyt. VHS & DVD,
                    3 episodes, 4 hours 30 minutes. (American Experience, WGBH 
                        Boston
                    , 125 Western Avenue, 
                        Boston
                    , Mass., 02134. VHS, $59.98; DVD, $79.98.)
            PBS's American Experience documentary 
                  
                            Chicago
                        : City of the Century uses Donald L. Miller's similarly named book as
                    an inspiration, rather than a textbook. Miller's book aimed to provide readers with a grand
                    tour of all that was scintillating about nineteenth-century 
                        Chicago
                    ; the documentary, by contrast, focuses more tightly on the sources and consequences of
                    the city's economic engines. The four-and-one-half-hour-long movie traces the history of 
                        Chicago
                     as it grew from a "mud hole" to one of the most important cities in
                    North America over the nineteenth century. First aired in January 2003, 
                  
                            Chicago
                        : City of the Century deploys a rich mix of quotations and images from primary
                    sources, on-camera interviews, and dramatic recreations to conjure up the flavor of the
                    city's transformation.
            Each of the three episodes is roughly structured around a broad theme. Part One concentrates on 
                        Chicago
                    's emergence as a hub for the transfer of agricultural commodities across the
                    continent. Relying most notably on historian William Cronon's Nature's Metropolis: 
                            Chicago
                         and the Great West, 1848–1895 (1991), the episode illustrates the
                    centrality of grain, lumber, and meat production to the metropolitan economy. The episode concludes
                    with a spectacular reproduction of the Great Fire of 1871, which destroyed the city's
                    downtown and north side. Part Two, the most tightly focused episode, examines the tensions between
                    capitalists and laborers in the 1870s and 1880s; it culminates in the Haymarket bombing of 1886,
                    effectively depicted as a three-way conflict among capitalists, workers, and anarchists. Part Three,
                    titled "The Battle for 
                        Chicago
                    ," investigates 
                        Chicago
                    's political culture—would the twentieth-century city emerge as a
                    haven for democracy, an oligarchy of the capitalist elite, or a kettle of boodle for corrupt
                    politicians? This final episode gestures toward the early twentieth century, suggesting that African
                    Americans who came as tourists to the World Columbian Exposition of 1893 were the latest group of
                    immigrants, succeeding the Poles, Italians, Irish, Jews, and others who came before them.
            The voices in City of the Century include a narrator (actor David Ogden Stiers),
                    more than a dozen experts on 
                        Chicago
                    's past, and  several descendants of
                    nineteenth-century 
                        Chicago
                     residents. Miller, delivering vivid color commentary, is featured most prominently.
                    Unafraid of colloquial language or the occasional vulgarity, Miller makes use of descriptions, vocal
                    technique, and body language to evoke the lived experience of the nineteenth-century city: filthy,
                    smelly, noisy, and spectacular. Other effective interviews include those with Dominic Pacyga, who
                    speaks from his dual perspectives as a 
                        Chicago
                     native and historian; Dena Epstein, the daughter of a Russian-Jewish girl who attended
                    activities at Hull-House; and former 
                        Chicago
                     Congressman Dan Rostenkowski.
            The documentary pays particular attention to illuminating the sensual tapestry of nineteenth-century 
                        Chicago
                    . Still pictures, contemporary newspapers and drawings, and early twentieth-century film
                    footage illustrate the scale and grit of early 
                        Chicago
                    . Footage of a squealing pig and a pig "sticker" encapsulates the
                    brutality of the meatpackers' "disassembly" line. The sounds of snorting
                    horses accompany pictures of wagons stuck in traffic. Occasional selections are jarring. A stunning
                    twenty-first-century camera shot of the Sears Tower rising up behind the Auditorium Theater, for
                    example, is nothing that a nineteenth-century visitor would have seen. A famous Jacob Riis
                    photograph of a boy working in a sweatshop is emotionally powerful, but was taken in 
                        New York
                    . The producers supplement primary sources with dramatic recreations of certain
                    experiences. Actors lay plates and silverware for a ride in a Pullman Palace car between 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , paddle canoes in search of the portage between the Great Lakes and the 
                        Mississippi
                     River, reenact the Haymarket martyrs' march to the gallows, and recreate the
                    assassination of Mayor Carter Harrison in his home.
            Much of the narration reflects the best in current scholarship about 
                        Chicago
                     and is artfully delivered. In a few instances, however, the director relies on debunked
                    stereotypes. For example, several "talking heads" insist that 
                        Chicago
                     was deeply ethnically segregated in the nineteenth century, that well before African
                    Americans arrived, Irish, Polish, Jewish, and other Chicagoans lived and worshiped separately. But
                    ethnic Catholic parishes overlapped each other's territory, and the famous Hull-House Maps and Papers (1925) (featured later in the same episode) showed that members
                    of different national groups frequently lived cheek-by-jowl. In another unexamined contradiction,
                    Miller asserts that no safety net existed to help the poor, without recalling the international
                    outpouring of disaster relief following the Great Fire. Interviews with historians Karen Sawislak
                    and Maureen Flanagan, neither of whom appears, might have provided a nuanced discussion of private
                    charity.
            PBS's American Experience web site supplements the documentary
                    (www.pbs.org/wgbh/amex/chicago/index.html). The site features interactive maps, short biographies of
                    influential Chicagoans, narratives of particular events, internet links, a teachers' guide,
                    and a lively  trivia quiz. 
                  
                            Chicago
                        : City of the Century succeeds in drawing viewers into 
                        Chicago
                    's fascinating past, and the website provides avenues toward deeper knowledge.
            AMANDA I. SELIGMAN is an assistant professor of history at
                    the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , Milwaukee. Her book on 
                        Chicago
                    's West Side after World War II is forthcoming from the University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press.
         
         
            
               It's Hardly Sportin': Stadiums, Neighborhoods, and the New 
                            Chicago
                        . By Costas Spirou and Larry Bennett. (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern University Press, 2003. Pp. [xi], 212. Maps, illustrations, appendix, tables,
                    bibliography, index. Paperbound, $28.50.)
            When one picks up a book about sports stadiums, one ordinarily expects to read about negotiated
                    deals, incentives and subsidies, environmental and economic impact studies, returns on investment,
                    jobs produced, tax revenues generated, and the like. Some of that information can be found in It's Hardly Sportin': Stadiums, Neighborhoods, and the New 
                            Chicago
                        
                by Costas Spirou and Larry Bennett, but the chief focus of the book lies
                    uniquely elsewhere, a fact that Hoosier sports fans who follow the Cubs, Sox, Bulls, Bears, or
                    Blackhawks should find intriguing.
            The authors' main concern is to explore the relationship between the revitalization of urban
                    centers, the construction and operation of sports stadia, and the neighborhoods in which these
                    facilities are situated. They do so in interesting and informative fashion, chronicling the ups and
                    downs of neighborhood battles with the 
                        Chicago
                     power structure. They conclude that, rightly or wrongly, these corporate/community
                    partnerships are "typically one-sided affairs," with the victories going to the
                    economically and politically strong. Their three examples—Comiskey Park, Wrigley Field,
                    and United Center—teach us, however, that the stronger the neighborhood-based
                    organizations, the truer the partnership.
            The new, publicly funded Comiskey Park, an appallingly designed stadium in a sterile setting
                    surrounded by asphalt, has no connection to the South Armour Square neighborhood whatsoever. Even
                    the local icon, McCuddy's, a neighborhood bar and hangout to which Babe Ruth used to repair
                    for a libation or two between innings, has been demolished. To date, no neighborhood economic boom
                    has materialized, and none is expected.
            The installation of lights at Wrigley Field was opposed by local residents in the Lake View
                    neighborhood, but under threat of the Cubs relocating to a better venue, lights were turned on in
                    August 1988. Strong citizens groups, such as the Lake View Citizens Council and CUBS (Citizens
                    United for Baseball in Sunshine), have proven effective in working with the team's
                    management. The neighborhood has gradually evolved into an entertainment-driven district, a
                    "port  of entry" for young people, while the
                    historic ballpark and its surroundings have become "a key element in 
                        Chicago
                    's drive to refashion itself as a metropolis rich in arts, entertainment, and
                    sports venues" (p. 141).
            United Center, which opened in 1994, has not had quite as dramatic an impact on 
                        Chicago
                    's near west side as the lighting of Wrigley Field, but certainly has had a
                    more salutary effect than Comiskey to the south. The reason, according to Spirou and Bennett, was
                    the presence of an aggressive Interfaith Organizing Project, which won "substantial
                    concessions" from the development group sponsoring the Center, such as compensation for
                    property owners, relocation of displaced persons, and investment in a new park and library. The
                    result? Residential and commercial markets bloomed.
            The book's most interesting insight is its understanding of the impact of the shift of our
                    economy from the smokestack to the computer. In our post-industrial, service-oriented society,
                    sports have become a central, not peripheral, part of our culture. They help define a city. The
                    authors postulate the rise of "the City of Leisure" in which "urban
                    uniqueness is marked by a city's portfolio of arts, entertainment, and sporting
                    institutions." 
                        Chicago
                     has embraced this new model wholeheartedly, as these three stadia attest.
            However, large sports facilities are not silver bullets that magically avert urban decline. The
                    co-authors offer an important word of caution: "there remains considerable uncertainty
                    concerning the utility of sports construction projects as tools for economic development and urban
                    regeneration" (p. 19). The urban fabric is made up of many little things, not one or two
                    big things, even in the city with "big shoulders," and we must not allow ourselves
                    to be beguiled by the myth that sports teams and facilities will automatically assure a
                    city's survival.
            WILLIAM H. HUDNUT, III, a former Congressman and four-term
                    mayor of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is a senior fellow at the Urban Land Institute in Washington, D.C., where he
                    specializes in public policy and urban redevelopment. He is the author of four books on urban
                    America, the most recent being Halfway To Everywhere: A Portrait of America's
                        First Tier Suburbs (2003).
         
         
            
               Rails across the 
                            Mississippi
                        : A History of the 
                            St. Louis
                         Bridge. By Robert W. Jackson. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2001. Pp. ix, 265. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $34.95.)
            Since 1874 the 
                        St. Louis
                     Bridge (more commonly known as the Eads Bridge) has spanned the 
                        Mississippi
                     River at 
                        St. Louis
                    , its graceful arches as much a symbol of the city's past as the gleaming
                    Gateway Arch on the river bank. In Rails Across the 
                            Mississippi
                        
               , Robert W. Jackson chronicles the financial and construction history  of Indiana-born James Buchanan Eads's monumental
                    structure. The story of the bridge has been told before, most recently in words and pictures by
                    Howard Miller and Quinta Scott. They focused on Eads the visionary engineer and architect. Jackson
                    approaches the man and the bridge from a different perspective. He competently retells the
                    construction story, but Jackson's Eads is primarily a visionary entrepreneur, his bridge an
                    artifact of American corporate capitalism in its formative age.
            The 
                        St. Louis
                     Bridge was built with borrowed money, as were all other long-span railroad bridges
                    across major western rivers. Like any good detective, Jackson follows the money. Eads prevailed over
                    his rivals in 1868 not because he proposed a better bridge, but because he was a better capitalist.
                    The primary goal for nearly everyone involved in the enterprise was making money, not bridging the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and Jackson relates their financial maneuverings in engrossing detail.
            The money men behind the bridge were a syndicate of local businessmen and East coast and foreign
                    investors, all orchestrated by Eads, Andrew Carnegie, and officers of the Pennsylvania Railroad.
                    Each had overlapping financial interests and personal agendas. Civic-minded but capital-poor St.
                    Louisans hoped the bridge would make them rich and lure transcontinental rail traffic away from
                    rival 
                        Chicago
                    . Although his Keystone Bridge Company was the prime contractor for the 
                        St. Louis
                     Bridge, Carnegie's main interest, as always, was in generating investment
                    capital for himself and his Pennsylvania Railroad cronies. Foreign investors were out for a high
                    profit and a quick return.
            The 
                        St. Louis
                     Bridge was a risky project for venture capitalists. No railroad bridge stood alone, but
                    was only part of an integrated transportation infrastructure requiring a network of feeder rail
                    lines, terminals, and binding commitments by rail companies to use the bridge once completed. The
                    system would either work as a whole or not at all.
            Eads and Carnegie admired each other's entrepreneurial verve, but their relationship was
                    always tense. As profit-hungry as his associates, Eads also had a vision for his bridge as an
                    engineering showpiece. Carnegie wanted a good bridge too, and not only because collapsing bridges
                    were bad for business. He considered Eads obsessive and naive for demanding better quality control
                    than "the custom of the trade," particularly when the product was
                    still-experimental chrome alloy steel. Although the project soon became mired in cost overruns and
                    construction delays, Carnegie continued to hype bridge bonds until 1871, when he and his close
                    associates quietly bailed out. Jackson reveals that they "used their insider's
                    knowledge of the impending call on subscribers to unload stock in advance" so that they
                    would never have to "pay one dollar out of their own pockets for their investment"
                    (p. 129). Jackson's greatest strength lies in his 
                    ability to trace the money trail and to illuminate creative bookkeeping and astounding conflicts of
                    interest that bear an uncanny resemblance to recent corporate capitalist shell games.
            Bridge construction delays bought St. Louisans enough time to build connecting rail lines, terminals,
                    and a necessary tunnel, but these projects took decades. If there is a hero to Jackson's
                    story, it is William Taussig, the 
                        St. Louis
                     financier left to see the project through after Eads moved on to other ventures. While
                    Taussig was busy bribing local politicians for a tunnel right-of-way, the national railroad magnates
                    were deciding it would be more personally profitable to bypass the bridge entirely. In the end, St.
                    Louisans could not wrest the main transcontinental trade from 
                        Chicago
                    , and the city instead built its late nineteenth-century prosperity on a command of
                    southwestern markets.
            When the financial collapse of 1873 caught up with overextended, triple-dealing railroad moguls, J.
                    P. Morgan came to the rescue with a bond-holders' bail-out. Meanwhile, Taussig juggled
                    contract deadlines and Henry Flad, Eads's long-suffering chief engineer, juggled steel
                    tubes and massive girders to meet them. Completed three years late and millions of dollars over
                    budget, the bridge opened in 1874 with an exuberant celebration—only to be picked up by
                    Jay Gould at a bankruptcy sale four years later.
            Meticulously researched and engagingly written, Rails Across the 
                            Mississippi
                        
                is a case study in Gilded Age corporate capitalism, a game with a few winners
                    and many losers. Jackson argues convincingly that the 
                        St. Louis
                     Bridge failed its originally hopeful investors and its promise as transcontinental
                    infrastructure. And yet the Eads Bridge has proven to be a long-term success, a stunning structure
                    and a civic icon newly refurbished for metropolitan light rail. Too sturdy to fall down, too massive
                    to remove, it transcended its failed functions to live on as a monument to the best and worst
                    impulses of the Gilded Age.
            KATHARINE T. CORBETT, former director of interpretation at
                    the 
                        Missouri
                     Historical Society, curated an exhibition and co-authored a catalog, with Howard S.
                    Miller, on 
                        St. Louis
                     in the Gilded Age. She lives in Gorham, 
                        Maine
                    .
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
