
   ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 49, Issue 1, pages 1-130. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:49+issue:1+year:1953&browseMode=source
    
   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
      
      
      
      
    
    
      
      
        New 
            Albany
          , "A Flourishing Place"
        Victor M. Bogle*
        
        Bernhard, Duke of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach, remarked as he was traveling through New 
            Albany
           in 1825 that "the little town… promises to be a flourishing
                        place."1
        
        Early nineteenth century pioneers who took the long trek westward were generally seeking more than
                    just new and isolated places to establish residences. Many, of course, were farmers and planned to
                    continue the vocation and way of life with which they were familiar. But, too, there were many who
                    were inclined toward business and trade—successful merchants in the East who were lured
                    by the promise of even more success in the West—frustrated clerks and shopkeepers who
                    looked to the frontier for their one big chance. To all with mercantile ambitions the newly
                    established town offered an excellent opportunity for starting enterprises with a minimum of capital
                    and a prospect of quick return of profits.
        As incoming settlers established themselves in New 
            Albany

           and increased the buying power of the community, there were merchants setting up shop
                    to supply the demand.2 Though there was some specialization from the beginning,
                    most of the early businesses were of the "general store" variety. As a rule the
                    merchants did not limit themselves to trade alone: there were doctor-merchants, lawyer-merchants,
                        
            
              * Victor M. Bogle is a resident of Silver Spring, 
                Maryland
              . This article is a revised chapter of his Ph.D. dissertation at 
                Boston
               University, 1951, written under the direction of 
                Warren S. Tyron
              .
            
              1 Bernhard, Duke of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach, Travels Through
                                North America (2 vols in one, 
                Philadelphia
              , 1828), 11, 128.
            
              2 Henry M'Murtrie and others estimate New 
                Albany
              's 1820 population at about one thousand. Sketches of 
                  Louisville
                 and Its Environs (
                Louisville
              , 1819), 167. The 1830 census reports 2,080 for the town. Fifth
                                Census or Enumeration of the Inhabitants of the 
                  United States
                , 1830.
            
          
           miller-merchants, butcher-merchants, furniture maker-merchants,
                    and just about every other conceivable combination.
        The expansion of the stores into wholesale and commission houses, a transformation that was already
                    well on the way in neighboring 
            Louisville
           as early as 1819,3 was proportionally slower in New 
            Albany
           during its first two decades. This development could be only a gradual one and come
                    about as the products from the surrounding farms were drawn to the town to be further dispensed to
                    needful areas along the river. New 
            Albany
           was but one of the dozens of settlements along the 
            Ohio
          -
            Mississippi
           route that contributed its excess produce to the huge stock that accumulated at 
            New Orleans
          . Surplus crops did find their way over the crude roads to New 
            Albany
          , but farm land in its immediate vicinity was not sufficiently productive to make the
                    town at this early date an important mart for farm produce. It was not until better wagon routes,
                    and eventually a railroad, enabled New 
            Albany
           traders to penetrate more deeply into the interior country that the town showed signs
                    of becoming an important commercial center.
        During the early years the supply of farm produce, if not wholly inadequate for commercial
                    transactions, was spasmodic enough to cause occasional confusion. Henry M'Murtrie in
                    commenting on this condition was referring principally to 
            Louisville
          , but what he said applied equally to the younger and less organized commercial activity
                    of New 
            Albany
          . "The country in the immediate vicinity of 
            Louisville

           can scarcely equal the demand created by them and the increasing population of the
                    town…. When there happens to be six or seven steam boats in port at once, it is extremely
                    difficult to procure the most common productions of the farm, and it is not uncommon to see people
                    riding out on horseback to intercept the provisions destined for the market. The hotels, taverns,
                    and steam boats must be supplied, cost what it will, and so great is the quantity
                    required for that purpose, that the citizens of the town are very frequently at a loss for
                    provisions for their table, if we except the articles of beef, mutton, and potatoes."4
        

        Still, the exchange of goods between town and country was vital from the first, and though barter was
                    the customary method of doing business, exchanged goods were successfully converted into salable
                    merchandise by the more enterprising 
            
              3 M'Murtrie, Sketches of 
                  Louisville
                 and Its Environs, 137-38.
            
              4
              Ibid., 197-98.
          
           tradesmen. River transport figured more and more in the process
                    as the periodic surplus of farm goods was passed on down the river and the profits converted into
                    new stocks of manufactured articles shipped in from the eastern cities.
        Customarily, New 
            Albany
           merchants traveled to the East at least once a year to restock their stores and prepare
                    for the next season's exchange. If successful in the year's transactions, they
                    would make the trip with full purses, but there were many last minute campaigns to gather enough of
                    the outstanding debts to make the trip to the East possible. Those failing to realize sufficient
                    cash from their businesses to replenish their stocks, gradually dropped out of the picture, only to
                    be replaced by others who were willing to take the gamble. One of the standard items of the
                    newspapers of the 1820's and 1830's was that referring to business failures
                    and the combining or withdrawing from merchant partnerships. A few stalwart tradesmen withstood all
                    the trials of the unstable market and were able to expand and prosper with the town. Others gave up
                    completely, or moved from the town to try their luck elsewhere.
        In 1819 five establishments received permits from the county officials to sell merchandise.5 By 1826 and 1827 an entirely new set of merchant names had made its
                    appearance. Men of this later date, such as Elias Ayres, James Brooks, the Conners, and the Shields,
                    established houses that were to last for several decades. The grocery and dry goods houses began to
                    cluster in the area along High and State streets—just about where the Scribners had
                    planned the business section. The early stores started on a retail basis, and as the outlying market
                    developed, they expanded to include wholesale transactions as well.
        Typical of the 1820 merchants was E. Baldwin. His assortment of goods, as advertised in the Chronicle, was restricted to staple foodstuffs and articles that could not be made
                    around the home. Among the items were "Kanhawa" salt, molasses, tea, sugar,
                    coffee, and lump sugar. He offered quite a selection of footwear "just received from the
                    Eastward," which consisted of men's leather shoes, men's coarse shoes
                    bound and unbound, grain shoes broad strips, grain shoes narrow strips, and men's wax
                    calf boots. He was willing 
            
              5 Minutes of the Commissioners of 
                Floyd County
              , Indiana, November 10,1819, p. 46.
          
           to take flaxseed, beeswax, and feathers in exchange for goods
                    purchased in his store.6
        
        The earliest notices of specialization in the retail trade have to do with the drug, leather, meat,
                    and furniture concerns. Asahel Clapp established a drug business that was to prosper beyond the
                    Civil War years. He received his stock from both 
            Philadelphia
           and 
            New Orleans
          , and, like his fellow merchants, tried to set his price low enough to avoid having
                    prospective customers crossing the river to 
            Louisville
          .7 Clapp was one of the most highly respected men in the 
            Ohio Valley
           for his various medical and geological achievements, but from his newspaper
                    advertisements he apparently had no convictions against "representing in this
                    area" many of the eastern producers of fantastic remedies and quack panaceas.

        A number of men followed the leather business from the earliest days, combining the jobs of
                    processing the raw hides and selling the finished products. Seth Woodruff bought out George Barclay
                    in 1821 and kept on hand "sole, upper, and harness leather… also a first rate
                    two horse waggon & harness." These articles were to be sold "low for cash,
                    or bartered for wheat, corn, bacon, or whiskey." Ashbrook & Walker offered
                    "all kinds of Bridles, Martingales, Harness, & Trunks…. By their close
                    attention to business, they hope to merit a share of public patronage."8
        
        The embryo of the furniture business, which was to be one of the more successful enterprises in the
                    town many years later, could be found as early as 1827. Again there was the combined process of
                    manufacturing and selling. Levi Cobb's sale of "
            Windsor
           chairs" shows that at least some of the citizens of New 
            Albany
           were buying articles for more than strictly utilitarian purposes.9
        
        The meat or butchering business also began early in the town,10 and though the
                    local output never measured up to that of 
            Cincinnati, Louisville
          , or even 
            Madison
          , its steady increase suggests that it was a profitable venture. Again New 
            Albany
           was limited by the poor productive quality of its rural hinterland, and other towns
                    were able to maintain and even increase their advantage in this respect.
        
          
            6 New 
              Albany
            
            Chronicle, November 18, 1820, and Jauary 13, 1821.
          
            7
            Ibid., December 27, 1821.
          
            8
            Ibid., May 5, 1821. Evidently Woodruff's zeal was not directed
                        against liquor. New 
              Albany
            
            Recorder, March 3, 1827.
          
            9 New 
              Albany
            
            Recorder, March 3, 1827.
          
            10 New 
              Albany
            
            Chronicle, July 28, 1821.
        
        
        Industry in the new town was naturally restricted by the scanty resources and labor supply, as well
                    as a limited market. But there was one industry in New 
            Albany
          , dating back to the town's infancy, which stirred the pride of nineteenth
                    century inhabitants and the romantic nostalgia of later citizens. This was the building of
                    steamboats. New 
            Albany
          's only real bid for nation-wide recognition was to come with its steamboats.
        In spite of the general interest in river lore, and in boatbuilding in particular, information on the
                    construction of New 
            Albany

           boats is rare. After the industry had progressed so that every detail on the pioneer
                    boats held a popular fascination, the old settlers of the town tried to piece together from memory
                    tales of the old boats and their builders; from these come some details, accurate and inaccurate.
                    Newspapers of the 1820's present no tangible data, for the handful that remain do not
                    coincide with any of the launchings.11 The best sources of material are the
                    general contemporary accounts of the river, such as James Hall's Statistics
                        of the West, Samuel Cumings' Western Pilot, or, again,
                    M'Murtrie's Sketches of 
              Louisville
            . Without such works from which to draw a few facts and figures, the story of
                    early steamboat building in New 
            Albany
           would now have to be based largely on myth and rumor.
        The first recorded steamboat built at New 
            Albany
           was a 364 ton affair, constructed by Shreve and Blair in 1817 or 1818.12 The Shreve in this partnership was the same Henry M. Shreve who broke the 
            Fulton
          -Livingston monopoly and successfully introduced his improved version of the steamboat
                    to the western waters. Shreve was not actually a resident of New 
            Albany
          , but rather one of the more illustrious "transients" who was
                    attracted to the river town. His sphere of operations was anywhere along the 
            Ohio
          -
            Mississippi
           river system where he might promote and publicize the steamboat. That he chose New 
            Albany
           for one of his early ventures in steamboat building indicates that the town had some
                    natural advantages for this activity even in 1817. Shreve's boat, the "
            Ohio
          ," went to work in the 
            Louisville

           trade, but after a life span of two years, it was reported to be "worn
                        out."13
        
        
          
            11 It was the custom, at least in the later papers of the town, to mark
                        the occasion of the launching with a detailed description of the boat.
          
            12 M'Murtrie, Sketches of 
                Louisville
               and Its Environs, 203.
          
            13 The average life span of steamboats of this period was four years. Ibid.
          
        
        
        Of the forty active steamboats on the western waters listed by M'Murtrie in 1818, two were
                    built in New 
            Albany
          . In addition to the "
            Ohio
          ," there was the 217 ton "Volcano," built by John and Robeson
                    De Hart. William Blane, the English traveler, recorded as New 
            Albany
           built boats the "Post Boy" and the "Indiana." An
                    unsubstantiated article in an 1864 New 
            Albany
          
          Ledger gave some details on the "Indiana." She was a
                    sternwheeler, with a tiny room on the main deck serving as a cabin. The New 
            Albany
           merchant, Charles Paxson, built her, and as captain took her to 
            New Orleans

          . While in that city in the spring of 1822 most of the crew died from yellow fever. As a
                    result the superstition prevailed that steamboats were unlucky, and it was a long time before
                    another crew could be rounded up to bring the "Indiana" back to its home port.14
        

        Another story of an old settler stated that the "Oranoke," was built "way
                    back about 1819."15 The launching of this boat did not occur on the
                    town river front where the industry later centered, but up above the town on Silver Creek. According
                    to the tale as related over fifty years following the event, a ship carpenter by the name of
                    Garrison built three boats on the creek, two on the 
            Clark County bank
          , and one on the 
            Floyd County bank

          . With the high water they were launched and floated down to the river. Even this early
                    there was a bottle of wine to break over the "Oranoke's" prow, and the
                    usual excitement attending such memorable events—including the fainting of two ladies
                    when the boat splashed into the water.16
        

        Facilities for building the boats were not elaborate, the physical plant being little more than a
                    cleared off spot along the river bank. Light, durable timber was abundant in the region of the town,
                    and this in part accounts for the choice of 
            
              14 William N. Blane, An Excursion Through the 
                  United States
                 and 
                  Canada
                 During the Years 1822-23 (
                London
              , 1824)) 119-21. According to James Hall, Statistics of the West at
                                the Close of the Year 1836 (
                Cincinnati
              , 1837)) 234, the "Post Boy" was the first steamboat on the
                            western waters to carry mail. New 
                Albany
              
              Ledger, April 16, 1864. The term "built" used in
                            reference to steamboats sometimes mean that the person mentioned in connection with the boat
                            contracted to have it built. The prospective owner often stayed around the yards in an
                            advisory capacity during the construction. Paxson died about 1822. Probably two or three old
                            stories are woven together in this tale.
            
              15 New 
                Albany
              
              Ledger, March 18, 1884.
            
              16 According to some writers on steamboat history, breaking the bottle
                            over the prow of the boat at this time was an exception to the rule. Drinking the contents
                            was the standard practice. See Herbert and Edward Quick, 
                
                  Mississippi
                 Steamboatin' (
                New York
              , 1926), 116.
          
           New 
            Albany

           as a boat-building center, both in the early years and later. The actual work on the
                    boats was probably performed by ordinary carpenters and other craftsmen under the direction of men
                    more specialized in the work—Peter Tellon, Martin Himes, John Evans, George Armstrong, D.
                    M. Hooper, or Mathew Robinson.17 In 1826, Robinson received permission to
                    establish a boatyard in front of his house on Water Street, so long as "the said Robinson
                    does not interfere with the common passage of the street."18
        
        Engines for the first New 
            Albany

           built boats came from other cities which had the necessary facilities for producing
                        them.19 One of the major problems in the building of the early boats at this
                    point was installing the engines. Until specialists in this type of work came to the town, the job
                    was done by the carpenters and mechanics who usually had very little theoretical knowledge of how it
                    should be done. Experts in this line were eventually attracted to the town. Two 
            Cincinnati
           men, Morton and Cox, established their foundry in New 
            Albany
           prior to 1826 for the repairing of steamboat engines. 
            Bern

          -hard, Duke of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach, when passing through the town noted that
                    "it has a factory of steam-engines, which finds good employment here," but there
                    is no evidence that these men actually built new engines.20 The only known
                    record on the foundry business in the town at the end of the decade is this advertisement:
                    "Cox & Miller respectfully informs the Owners & Commanders of S-Bs,
                    & the Public in general, that they carry on the above business in all its various branches
                    at their establishment, adjoining the Iron Foundry of Messrs. Morton & Cox, in N-A Ia.
                    Mill-irons, of every description & of the best materials, will be furnished at the shortest
                    notice, & on the most reasonable terms."21
        
        
          
            17 This group of early builders is listed in the New 
              Albany
            
            Ledger, January 6, 1868.
          
            18 New 
              Albany
            
            Ledger-Standard, January 1, 1875.
          
            19 The "
              United States
            ," built at 
              Jeffersonville
             in 1819, and called by M'Murtrie "the finest merchant steamboat
                        in the universe," received its two engines from 
              England
            . Sketches of 
                Louisville
               and Its Environs, 204.
          
            20 Henry A. and Kate Ford, History of the 
                Ohio
               Falls Cities and Their Counties (2 vols, 
              Cleveland
            , 1882), II, 221; Bernhard, Travels Through North America, II,
                        128.
          
            21 New 
              Albany
            
            Recorder, October 13, 1827. According to Benjamin Casseday, The
                            History of 
                Louisville
               From Its Earliest Settlement Till the Year 1852 (
              Louisville
            , 1852), 135-36, there was only one foundry at 
              Louisville
             throughout this period.
        
        

        The boat building industry during its first fifteen years was not important because of the capital
                    investment or monetary value of its output. Such commonplace pursuits as house building, grocery
                    selling, and hog slaughtering probably surpassed it in these respects.22 Yet
                    there was a concentrated outlay that was conspicuous in a frontier community where people were not
                    in the habit of dealing in large lump sums. The total value of the seventeen boats built from 1818
                    to 1830 was $270,151.00, this being an average of $15,891.23.23 A fifteen thousand dollar project certainly would be enough to excite the curiosity and
                    interest of the early citizens. And of course there was an inexplicable drama about the whole
                    boat-building procedure that now lies concealed beneath the surface of a few stray statistics.
        If the early industry followed the pattern of later years when boatbuilding was at its peak, capital
                    did not come from within the town itself but from outsiders who sojourned in the town just long
                    enough to have the work completed. As will be shown later, this practice gave a precarious financial
                    basis to what was outwardly a prosperous business.
        New 
            Albany

          's standing among the early boatbuilding centers of the west can be seen from
                    these statistics compiled by M'Murtrie in 1819.24
        
        
          
            Boats
            Tons
          
          
            Two at 
                Pittsburgh
              , by R. Whiting, 180 each
            360
          
          
            One ditto, by Stackpole and Rogers
            250
          
          
            Two at 
                Wheeling
               of 500 and 100
            600
          
          
            One at Steubenville
            90
          
          
            One at 
                Marietta
              
            
            130
          
          
            One at Maysville
            110
          
          
            One at 
                Cincinnati
              , by Noble and Moore
            400
          
          
            One ditto, by Breedlove and Bradford
            400
          
          
            Two ditto, for a company at 
                Nashville
              , 250 each
            500
          
          
            One at 
                Portland
              , Ky. by Gray and Anderson
            300
          
          
            Three at New 
                Albany
              , by Shreve and others, each 220
            660
          
          
            Four at Clarksville, In. from 60 to 200
            500
          
          
            One at Salt River, by a company at 
                Elizabethtown
              , Ky.
            160
          
          
            One at 
                Vevay
              
            
            110
          
          
            One at 
                Madison
              
            
            120
          
        
        
          
            22 There are no figures to show this for the early years, but the census
                        reports for the later period indicate that this was the case.
          
            23 This estimate is based on figures found in The Commercial
                            and Manufacturing Advantages of New 
                Albany
              , Indiana (New 
              Albany
            , 1857), 9.
          
            24 M'Murtrie, Sketches of 
                Louisville
               and Its Environs, 204.
        
        
        
          
            One at Rising Sun
            90
          
          
            One on the 
                Wabash River
              
            
            80
          
          
            Two at 
                New Orleans
              , 200 each
            400
          
          
            
            12,770
          
        
        This later list, taken from Hall's Statistics of the West, gives a
                    comparison of the centers in the number of steamboats produced up to the year 1836.25
        
        
          
            
              
                Pittsburgh
              
            
            173
            
              
                Wheeling
              
            
            19
          
          
            
              
                Cincinnati
              
            
            164
            
              
                Marietta
              
            
            18
          
          
            
              
                Louisville
              
            
            33
            Steubenville
            12
          
          
            New 
                Albany
              
            
            32
            
              
                Jeffersonville
              
            
            10
          
          
            
              
                Brownsville
              , Pa.
            22 
                Nashville
              
            
            8
          
        
        Also largely from Hall is this list of boats built at New 
            Albany
           through the year 1830. Information taken from other sources is noted.26
        
        
          
            Name of Boat
            Year Built
            Tons
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            1817 or 1818
            364
          
          
            Volcano
            1818
            217
          
          
            Oranoke*
            
            1819
            
          
          
            Post Boy*
            
            1819
            230
          
          
            Indiana
            1821 or 1822
            180
          
          
            Lady of the Lake
            1826
            170
          
          
            Cleopatra
            1826
            150
          
          
            Daniel 
                Boone
              
            
            1826
            264
          
          
            Hibernia
            1826
            200
          
          
            Galena & 
                St. Louis
               Packet
            1826
            130
          
          
            
              
                Wabash
              
            
            1827
            186
          
          
            Atlas
            1827
            160
          
          
            Criterion
            1828
            200
          
          
            Souvenir
            1828
            140
          
          
            La Fourche
            1829
            200
          
          
            Rapide
            1830
            160
          
          
            Chieftain
            1830
            120
          
          
            Wanderer
            1830
            186
          
        
        The list shows that following the building of the "Indiana" there was a four-year
                    lull in the industry. But it came back with renewed vigor in 1826, marking this as the top year in
                    the early period.
        Steamboat building was the most picturesque industry in early New 
            Albany
          , but also located in the town were a number 
            
              25 Hall, Statistics of the West, 263.
            
              26
              Ibid., 252-63. For the "Oranoke," see New 
                Albany
              
              Ledger, March 18, 1884; "Post Boy," Blane, An Excursion Through the 
                  United States
                
              , 119-21.
          
           of other minor "manufactories" which helped to
                    give it that thriving appearance so often noted by contemporary observers. The output of the various
                    workshops was not great, and with perhaps one exception, there is no evidence that New 
            Albany
          -made products were designed for more man the local market. Many of the articles were
                    undoubtedly crude, just a step beyond being "home made"; but the extent to which
                    the population engaged in these crafts suggests that during the first few decades of the town there
                    was a demand to be fulfilled.
        Already some mention has been made of the early attempt to establish mills in the new town. A mill
                    was one of the enterprises most obviously needed in a new settlement, not only to grind grain, but
                    to saw logs and fashion lumber for the many buildings. Josiah Trublood's mill was already
                    in operation on Falling Run Creek when the Scribners came, but it was too restricted by periodic
                    high water and droughts to suffice for the growing community. The Scribners shipped in a small steam
                    engine from 
            Pittsburgh

          , and after a failure or two had their mill running by 1515. But another mill a few
                    miles up the river at the Falls was too much competition for them, and they had to convert their
                    ambitious project into a "roosting place" for hogs.27 Then
                    came the Paxson mill, which was the first really successful industrial enterprise in the town. It
                    established on a firm footing an industry that grew as the town grew. By 1819, Paxson's
                    mill was valued at three thousand dollars, and was the most valuable piece of property in town.28
        
        The most ambitious industry started in New 
            Albany
           in the early years was the Indiana Cotton Manufacturing Company. John Badger, a recent
                    arrival from the East, first organized the corporation in 1820, supported by seven of the
                    town's more prosperous citizens. A year later three of the participants dropped out and
                    the company was reorganized. An editorial from a local paper shows what the company planned to do.
                    "The New 
            Albany

           Cotton Manufactory, in this town, is in operation; they will shortly be able to
                    manufacture 
            
              27 Ford, History of the 
                  Ohio
                 Falls Cities and Their Counties, II, 151, 152.
            
              28 The assessor at first put it down for eight thousand dollars, but
                            upon another instance of "mature deliberation," the county commissioners
                            lowered it to three thousand dollars. Minutes of the commissioners of 
                Floyd County
              , November 19, 1819.
          
           from 1000 to 1500 yards of cloth per week, & supply the
                    country with what yarn will be called for. They have now eight looms in operation which average from
                    18 to 24 yards per day each. We have seen some of their cloth which we think equals any we have ever
                    seen that was manufactured in America. Dr. Joseph Whitcomb has been appointed agent for the company,
                    & has plenty of cloth for sale at his door, much cheaper than imported.
                    'Thus,' as Mr. Niles says, 'step by step we are getting up the
                    ladder of independence.'"29
        
        The machinery was operated with the power supplied by a pair of persistent oxen trying to climb a
                    tread wheel. The only report of wages in the mill is from an old resident of 1882 who worked there
                    when a boy; for a week's labor he was paid cotton yarn worth 37 ½¢.
                    In spite of this evidence of thrift on the part of the managers, the cotton manufactory did not
                    prosper in New 
            Albany
          , and the proprietors after a few years moved it down to Doe Run, 
            Kentucky
          .30 In the latter quarter of the century cotton cloth manufacture in
                    New 
            Albany
           was attempted again with more success. In the 1820's the town had too much
                    of the frontier about it to serve as a site for a project of this type and scale. Yet, the attempt
                    shows that outsiders and the wealthier townspeople alike had some regard for the natural advantages
                    of the place and were willing to take a chance on its future prosperity.
        Many of the small craftsmen devoted their time and skill to supplying the citizens with garments of
                    one kind or another. Henry Reinaking moved from 
            Louisville

           in 1821 to set up his tailoring business. H. Bogert, boot and shoe maker, executed
                    "orders for every description of work in his line." William Humphreys ran a
                    "wool carding" shop, where he prepared rough wool for home use, and in addition he
                    was a partner in the hat business. "The subscribers will manufacture at their shop in N-A,
                    opposite Messrs Paxson and East-burns, Gentleman's Beaver, Castor, Rorum & Wool
                    HATS of a superior quality and newest fashion, also Ladies and boys hats, of every description. They
                    give at the above place the highest price for FURS Boys will do well to save their Rabbit skins. Wm.
                    Humphreys, Isaac Brooks."31
        
        
          
            29 New 
              Albany
            
            Chronicle, September 15, 1821; Ford, History of the 
                Ohio
               Falls Cities and Their Counties, II, 225.
          
            30 Ford, History of the 
                Ohio
               Falls Cities and Their Counties, II, 225.
          
            31 New 
              Albany
            
            Chronicle, March 17, May 5, 21, 1821; New 
              Albany
            
            Recorder, March 3, 1827.
        
        
        In addition to the previously mentioned leather, furniture, and foundry trades there were other
                    industries in the town of a heavier nature. Charles 
            Butler

           contracted to make wagons and coaches according to the specifications of his patrons.
                    Dorman Smith established himself in town about 1827 "to execute all kinds of coopering with
                    the exception of cedar work." The same year C. F. Fontaine began to manufacture sheet iron
                    and tin plate for both the retail and wholesale trade. There is no known record of just how
                    elaborate his establishment was. Charles Woodruff made tools at his "Plane
                    Manufactory." His customary notice in the Chronicle included this
                    somewhat puzzling advertising approach: "If the present pressure of the times effect the
                    Mechanics generally as it does the subscriber, they will find it to their advantage to use more
                    Planes, & his reduced prices will make it an object for them to give him a
                        call."32
        
        There are no direct references to an acute labor shortage in the early years of New 
            Albany
          , but there is evidence that while the town was in the process of settlement there was
                    work enough around for everybody. If a newcomer could not find some means of supporting himself in
                    the town, he had but to move on down the river till he found a place more suitable. Many stayed on,
                    some to work as clerks in one of the stores, most to work as laborers. Obituaries show that many
                    poor young men who stopped at New 
            Albany
           to seek their fortune were honored at their death as prosperous and influential
                    citizens. Many more remained poor, and about all that could be said at the time of their decease was
                    that they had been stalwart citizens. The part that these "stalwart" citizens had
                    in building up the place cannot be over estimated. As an ambitious settlement, eager to expand and
                    become more populous, no other sentiment than that of welcome to all comers could prevail. The man
                    with brawn to contribute was particularly welcome.

        The small industries, as well as the surrounding farms, received a considerable share of their labor
                    by way of the apprentice system. This can be seen from the number of apprentices who were reported
                    to have escaped from their masters. The unflattering descriptions publicized by the wronged masters
                    suggests that the system was not working too well and 
            
              32 New 
                Albany
              
              Chronicle, May 5, 1821; New 
                Albany
              
              Recorder, February 3, October 13, 1827.
          
           that some of the relationships were anything but cordial. Here
                    is one published by E. Patrick for his runaway printer, Robert Harrison. "He is about 17
                    years old, rather small of his age, has large swelled knees occasioned by the rheumatism, has most
                    generally sore eyes, & is pretty fond of whiskey. The day he absconded he filled up several
                    blank tickets, which were printed for a gentleman in this town, & passed them as genuine
                    bills…. A boy of his age & genius who will be guilty of forgery is prepared for
                    most dangerous offenses."33
        
        What little information can be found on wages during this period indicates that compared to present
                    day standards they were unusually low. The traveler Isaac Holmes reported that in 1819 
            Louisville
           mechanics received from $7.50 to $10.00 a week, and a similar, or
                    slightly lower, rate must have applied in New 
            Albany
          .34 Female domestic help could be hired as cheaply as seventy-five
                    cents a week.35
        
        A stable circulating medium was absent in the commercial transactions of the early town, and the
                    contemporary writings attest to the confusion that resulted from this condition. Since
                    "hard" money was scarce, the choice lay between worthless paper currency or no
                    money at all. Paper from the branch banks of the state was refused by most citizens and was hardly
                    considered current money. The newspapers ran a regular column designating the banks whose notes were
                    received for cash at the 
            Jeffersonville
           land office. This land office did not redeem its own notes of less than five dollars.
                    The nearest offices whose notes were considered good risks were as far away as Shawneetown, 
            Illinois
          , and 
            Chillicothe, Ohio
          . The new Bank of the Commonwealth of 
            Kentucky

           had nicely engraved notes, but they were worth only fifty cents on the dollar.
                    Merchants like Paxson and Eastburn had a profitable sideline in buying in the more valuable paper on
                    outside banks in exchange for the current money of Indiana.36
        
        
          
            33 New 
              Albany
            
            Chronicle, November 11, 1820.
          
            34 Isaac Holmes, An Account of the 
                United States
               of America (
              London
            , 1823), 284. There are no data that give this information directly. The one dollar
                        a day figure is based on the record that the county officials received about this amount; also
                        on the fact that as late as 1856, after the economy of the town was considerably advanced and
                        stabilized, workers in the local ship yards received only $1.25 a day. See New 
              Albany
            
            Ledger, July 17, 1856.
          
            35 "February 24… Charity Carter came and began work
                        for us te day, at 756 per week." Asahel Clapp, Diary, 14. A copy of this diary is in
                        the 
              Floyd County
             Historical Society Collection, New 
              Albany
             Public Library. The original diary is in the possession of the Indiana Medical
                        Association.
          
            36 New 
              Albany
            
            Chronicle, May 15, 21, June 20, 1821.
        
        

        To the confused money market the town trustees in 1821 added two hundred fifty dollars of town
                    currency. This was to be eventually returned to the town treasurer in payment of the corporation
                    taxes. Also contributing to the general hodgepodge were the "tickets" issued in
                    small denominations by private citizens. There was no way to curb the widespread forging of
                    signatures and counterfeiting.37
        

        Notices of litigation and threatened litigation for nonpayment of debts were standard fillers in the
                    weekly newspapers. Town merchants customarily ran paragraphs of warning to those who were slow in
                    paying up their bills. "The subscriber having put his books into the hands of David S.
                    Basset, Esqr. for collection; those therefore who may be indebted are requested to call on him at
                    his office without delay and discharge their respective accounts; and thereby save costs and further
                    trouble. Jacob S. Cooper."38
        

        The threats were not baseless, for the advertisements of sheriff sales were likewise frequent. This
                    one shows that justice sometimes cut pretty near the quick. "James Pearson vs. John Lamb
                    & J. Vi. Green. By virtue of a writ of fi facias [sic] issued out of the Floyd Circuit
                    court, I have levied and took part of lot No. 8, Lower High Street; it being 30 feet in front
                    & rear & eighty feet deep, with all the appurtenances thereunto belonging, in the
                    town of N-A—Also, the following articles of personal property, 2 bedsteads and bedding,
                    one dining table, one work stand, nine chairs, and one cow, taken as the property of John Lamb,
                    which I shall sele [sic] at public auction on the 11th day of July next, at the
                    court house door, between the hours of 10 and 12 a.m. James Besse, Shff. F. C."39
        

        An elaborate system of barter tended to ameliorate the currency situaticjn, especially between the
                    merchants and the neighboring farmers. Here is how the editor of the Chronicle
                    collected his debts from the country people thirty miles away. "The subscriber informs his
                    patrons in 
            Washington
           County that he expects to take country produce in payment of debts due for the
                    paper—He will hereafter state when he will be in 
            Salem

          , so as to receive the kinds of produce that may be brought to him. He will take Pork,
                    Beef, country sugar, butter, 
            
              37
              Ibid., December 17, 1821; New 
                Albany
              , The Miomscope and General Advertiser, December 15, 1824.
            
              38 New 
                Albany
              
              Chronicle, February 3, 1821.
            
              39
              Ibid., June 30, 1821.
          
           country linen, woolen, etc. Those who wish to pay him in Butter
                    at 13 3/4, cents per pound, may leave it with Mrs. Potts, who will keep an account of
                    it—none will be received but good. E. Patrick."40
        

        Most of the legal action in the local courts concerned debts and land exchange. Many settlers came to
                    the new settlement, purchased plots of land, and then, failing to "make a go of
                    it," took off for somewhere else. The land being the only tangible asset of the debtor, it
                    was gained by the creditor through a "foreign attachment."41
                    Thus there was a constant shifting of land ownership. Speculators in land could not fail to profit
                    by the unstable economy, but taxes had to be considered in any ambitious program to "buy up
                    the town." Excess capital went into enterprises whose profits were not so distantly
                    removed.

        Lawyers made an early appearance in the town, and from the number who professed to practice law,
                    there was considerable legal business to be attended to. Much of the work consisted in preparing
                    briefs in debt collection cases, or giving advice to one or another of the participants in a land
                        dispute.42 Occasionally a divorce suit served as a break in the routine.
                    What training was required, or what standards prevailed in the profession at this time, is not
                    revealed, but the New 
            Albany

           lawyers kept their few law books at their elbows as they prepared their impressive
                    legal tracts. The Latin terms often suffered at the hands of the printer when the notices were
                    published in the Chronicle or other papers, but this detracted little from their
                    air of authority.
        
          
            40
            Ibid., November 18, 1820.
          
            41 Nine sheriff sales of land were advertised in the November 18, 1821,
                        New 
              Albany
            
            Chronicle for Levari Facias, Fieri Facias, and Vendetioni Exponas.
          
          
            42 One of the first acts of the new county government in May, 1819, was
                        the selection of six petit and three grand juries. Minutes of the Commissioners of 
              Floyd County
            , 25.
        
      
      
      
        Indiana Historical Workshop
        Another workshop of three days at McCormick's Creek State Park, April 5 to 8, is being
                    sponsored by the Indiana Historical Bureau, Indiana State Library, and Indiana University.

        A very interesting program has been planned. Lectures on the pioneer period will be given by R.
                    Carlyle Buley, professor of history at Indiana University, author of The Old
                    Northwest, and Pulitzer Prize winner in 1951. A. W. Crandall, professor of history at DePauw
                    University and Civil War expert will speak on the Battle of 
            Gettysburg
           and Indiana's part in it. Another scholar of Indiana history, Donald F.
                    Carmony, will discuss the "home front" during the war. An illustrated lecture on
                    Morgan's Raid through Indiana in 1863 will be given by Howard H. Peckham.
        Literary Figures of Indiana will be discussed by William E. Wilson, novelist and professor of English
                    at Indiana University, and Mrs. Jeanette C. Nolan, novelist and children's writer.
        Margaret Waters of 
            Indianapolis
          , an experienced genealogist, will share her knowledge with family "tree
                    clinibers." An opportunity for a discussion of genealogical problems with Eleanor Peterson,
                    head of the Indiana State Library Genealogy Division; on writing local history with Dorothy Riker
                    and Gayle Thornbrough; and information about county societies with Howard H. Peckham, may be counted
                    on by those who attend.
        The nominal fee of twenty dollars will cover all expenses except transportation. Reservation should
                    be made directly with Canyon Inn, McCormick's Creek State Park, 
            Spencer
          , Indiana. A deposit of five dollars should be made. For further information on the
                    workshop write to
        Howard H. Peckham,
        Director Indiana Historical Bureau
        
          
            Indianapolis
           4, Indiana
      
      
      
        An Analysis of Northern Indiana's Population in 1850
        
          Elfrieda Lung
          *
        
        Statistics have been sought after in the past by only a few scholars, and in fact avoided by others.
                    In recent years a number of historians have been more interested in social history than in the
                    political story and have gleaned the original census returns to produce their narrative. Among some
                    of those who have been actively engaged in working with the census are Frank L. Owsley of 
            Alabama
           and his student, Chase C. Mooney of Indiana University, who has completed an extensive
                    study on slaves in 
            Tennessee
          . Another student of the census, Hildegard Binder Johnson of 
            Minnesota
          , has won wide acclaim for her scholarly articles on a number of Middle Western States
                    and especially on Germans. And more recently, Barnes F. Lathrop has completed a study of 
            Texas
          . The authors of most of the studies that have been published or are now in progress
                    have used or are using the sampling method to arrive at their conclusions.
        The most detailed study now available for any state was completed in 1950. This research covers
                    twenty-one counties in Indiana north of the 
            Wabash River
          . Because of the time element in reading microfilm and compiling statistics, it may
                    require another ten years before an exhaustive account can be given for the entire state of Indiana.

        Not until 1830 was a census taken in northern Indiana. At that time there were 3,380 inhabitants,
                    exclusive of Indians, living in this region. By 1840 the number totaled 65,-897. During the next
                    decade the population had increased to 165,286, representing thirty states and twenty-six foreign
                    countries. Some of those individuals may have migrated to this Hoosier wilderness to improve their
                    financial s'tatus, while others may have been imbued by the spirit of adventure. 
            
              * Elfrieda Lang is a research associate and assistant
                            editor of the Indiana Magazine of History. These statistics are the heart
                            of the Ph.D. dissertation completed at Indiana University in 1950 under the direction of
                            John D. Barnhart. The tables which follow were compiled from the Original Returns of the
                            Seventh 
                United States
               Census, 1850, Indiana. A copy of this census in microfilm is on file in the
                            Documents Division of the Indiana University Library, 
                Bloomington

              , Indiana. It should be noted that the boundaries of the counties in this study
                            were those of 1850 and not as of today. For changes of county boundaries see, George Pence
                            and Nellie C. Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries, Tewitory, State, and County (
                Indianapolis
              , 1933).
          
           Many on the frontier found there an opportunity to develop
                    talents which might have remained dormant in the state or country of their birth.
        By the time the 1830 census was taken only four northern counties were settled. Allen, 
            Elkhart
          , and 
            St. Joseph
           were border counties, and 
            Cass County
           in the interior had proved the more popular area for settlement. Ten years later
                    twen'ty-one counties north of the 
            Wabash River
           in the Hoosier State had been populated. 
            La Porte
           County with over eight thousand inhabitants was the more densely settled. In 1850,
                    however, 
            Allen County
           had more people living within its borders than any other county in the region.
        While the increase in population in these northern counties is of interest, the more noteworthy
                    factor may be the nativity of those inhabitants who were living there at the time of the seventh
                    census. Over sixty-three per cent had been born in the North Central States and in all probability
                    were the children of parents who had migrated from other sections and from foreign countries. A
                    further analysis of the above percentage indicated that more than thirty-five per cent were native
                    Hoosiers. Six counties had more Ohioans than Indianans. Of this number four: 
            Kosciusko
          , 
            Noble, Starke
          , and 
            Whitley
          , were interior counties; and only two, 
            Steuben
           and 
            De Kalb
          , bordered 
            Ohio
          . That immigration from the Buckeye State to this area was of more recent date than to
                    other counties in northern Indiana is substantiated by the fact that the younger children had been
                    born in 
            Ohio
          .
        After 1830 the National Road no longer served as a dividing line for the Southerners, who now began
                    to swing their axes to clear areas for settlement in the region north of the 
            Wabash River
          . In the next twenty years approximately twelve thousand had settled in northern
                    Indiana, representing thirteen states from the South. Fifty per cent of this number were Virginians.
                    Kentuckians and Marylanders were also well represented. 
            Miami
           and 
            Wabash counties
           were more favored for settlement by Southerners. As a rule, immigrants from the South
                    reached Indiana by traveling through 
            Ohio
          . Then, too, there were those who lived for a number of years in southern Indiana before
                    removing to the area north of the 
            Wabash River
          . Children were born in 
            Ohio
           and in counties south of the National Road.

        Slightly less than thirty-two thousand came from the Middle Atlantic States. Over fifteen thousand
                    were natives of 
          
            Pennsylvania
           with approximately sixteen hundred choosing 
            Elkhart
           County. Since the natives of the Keystone State surpassed the number of New Yorkers in
                    the interior counties, it is likely that the Pennsylvanians may have traveled on such a central
                    route as the National Road which linked with the 
            Michigan
           Road at 
            Indianapolis
          , and then gradually distributed themselves on either side of the latter highway. That
                    such a route was probably followed is further substantiated by the fact that many children of
                    Pennsylvanians were born in 
            Ohio
          . On the other hand, more than fourteen thousand came from 
            New York
          , of which two thousand had settled in 
            La Porte
           County. With only a few exceptions the counties along the lake and the 
            Michigan
           border were more favored by natives from the Empire State than the interior counties.
                    Except for approximately twenty-two hundred citizens from 
            Delaware
           and 
            New Jersey
          , the immigrants from 
            New York
           and 
            Pennsylvania
           comprised the entire population of the Middle Atlantic States who moved into northern
                    Indiana.
        Among the native-born population about three per cent were New Englanders, who had left the rolling
                    hills and rocky ledges for the open prairies and marshes of northern Indiana. 
            La Porte
           and 
            Steuben
           counties were the choice of the largest number of Yankees. There were more sons and
                    daughter from 
            Vermont
           than from any other New 
            England State
          , although 
            Connecticut
           and 
            Massachusetts
           each were represented by slightly more than eleven hundred. The Yankees settled in
                    larger numbers in the border counties, and as early as 1850 had to their credit the founding of
                    Orland Academy in 
            Steuben
           County, thus giving some indication of Yankee interest in higher education. John
                    Stocker from the Green Mountain State did the spade work in this county and no doubt was responsible
                    for luring New Englanders to the region. Another Yankee, Solon Robinson, who came from 
            Connecticut
          , was the leading spirit in 
            Lake County
          . In all likelihood the New 
            England
           group made its entrance into Indiana by a northern route. Judging by the nativity of
                    children, some Yankees came by way of 
            Michigan
           and others lived for a number of years in 
            Ohio
           after leaving the Wolverine State before settling in Indiana. A number of New
                    Englanders and Southerners, as well as some foreigners, by-passed the Hoosier State for 
            Illinois
           and lived there from five to ten years before retreating into Indiana.
        
        Interestingly enough, the counties, which were popular with New Englanders were also the choice of
                    natives from the Empire State. One may, therefore, conclude that many of the ancestors of New
                    Yorkers were Yankees. Probably fifty per cent or more of the native New Yorkers who settled in
                    northern Indiana were of New 
            England
           extraction.
        Approximately eleven thousand inhabitants of the total population were natives of foreign countries,
                    and over a third of the entire alien population was concentrated in 
            Allen County
          . Furthermore, the Germans made the most indelible impression of any group. Their
                    numbers were more pronounced in Allen and Lake counties than those of all other aliens put together.
        In 1850, there were 433 Negroes in northern Indiana, and about thirty per cent of this number were
                    natives of the Southern States. The majority of them were living in 
            Allen, Cass
          , and 
            Whitley counties
          . 
            Lake, Marshall, Pulaski
          , and 
            Starke counties
           had no colored population. Approximately fifty-eight per cent of the Negroes were
                    natives of the North Central States, to which their parents may have migrated from the Southern
                    States. In all probability some of the colored people accompanied a master from the South to the
                    Hoosier State and once on free soil continued in his employ or pursued some other occupation.
        At the time of the 1850 census 110 Indians were living in northern Indiana. Of this number seven had
                    settled in 
            Cass County
          ; five, in Marshall; eighty-three, in Miami; and fifteen, in 
            Wabash
          . Four were born in 
            Michigan
          , one each, in 
            Ohio
          , 
            Pennsylvania
          , and 
            Virginia
          ; and one hundred and two, in Indiana. The birthplace of one was unknown. One may assume
                    that they had never become a part of an emigration trek or that if they had removed to a western
                    state, at the time of the seventh census they had returned to their old stamping grounds.

        In addition to the nativity of northern Indiana's population, the age distribution of the
                    inhabitants is worthy of consideration. The largest number below twenty years were born in the North
                    Central States, with the majority being natives of the Hoosier State. Hence, the parents in most
                    cases were born in other states and foreign countries. Eighty-eight per cent of the New Englanders
                    were above twenty and fifty-four per cent above forty. The Southerners ranked next with eighty-five
                    per cent above twenty and forty-four per cent above forty,  and
                    they in turn were followed by the natives from the Middle Atlantic States with seventy-three per
                    cent above twenty and twenty-nine per cent above forty. While seventy-four per cent of the
                    foreigners were above twenty, there were only twenty-seven per cent above forty in this group.
                    Almost seventy-eight per cent of the Middle Westerners were below twenty years of age, but for the
                    Hoosiers it was ninety-three per cent in the same range.
        Although the Hoosiers constituted over thirty-five per cent of the population in the region, it
                    should be noted that the majority of them were below ten years of age. For this reason one might,
                    therefore, conclude that the number of Indianans is not of any great significance, especially since
                    the parents themselves had come from New 
            England
          , from the South, from the Middle Atlantic States, or from foreign countries. It was,
                    after all, the older generation that made the furrow which the children followed.
        
          Population of Northern Indiana, 1830-1850
          
            County
            1830
            1840
            1850
          
          
            Allen
            996
            5,942
            16,919
          
          
            Cass
            1,162
            5,480
            10,986
          
          
            
              
                De Kalb
              
            
            
            1,968
            8,251
          
          
            
              
                Elkhart
              
            
            935
            6,660
            12,697
          
          
            
              
                Fulton
              
            
            
            1,993
            5,982
          
          
            
              
                Jasper
              
            
            
            1,267
            3,548
          
          
            
              
                Kosciusko
              
            
            
            4,170
            10,244
          
          
            
              
                Lagrange
              
            
            
            3,664
            8,387
          
          
            Lake
            
            1,468
            3,991
          
          
            
              
                La Porte
              
            
            
            8,184
            12,146
          
          
            Marshall
            
            1,651
            5,349
          
          
            Miami
            
            3,048
            11,303
          
          
            Noble
            
            2,702
            7,946
          
          
            Porter
            
            2,162
            5,236
          
          
            
              
                Pulaski
              
            
            
            561
            2,596
          
          
            
              
                St. Joseph
              
            
            287
            6,425
            10,955
          
          
            Starke
            
            149
            557
          
          
            
              
                Steuben
              
            
            
            2,578
            6,105
          
          
            
              
                Wabash
              
            
            
            2,756
            12,138
          
          
            White
            
            1,832
            4,760
          
          
            
              
                Whitley
              
            
            
            1,237
            5,190
          
          
            Total
            3,380
            65,897
            165,286
          
        
        
        
          Age Groups of Northern Indiana in 1850
        
        
        
          Age Groups of Northern Indiana in 1850
        
        
        
          Nativity of Northern Indiana in 1850 by Counties
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            At
            
          
          
            County
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Sea
            Total
          
          
            Allen
            397
            2,730
            562
            9,275
            5,327
            3,902
            46
            7
            16,919
          
          
            Cass
            117
            1,595
            1,137
            7,408
            4,597
            574
            155
            0
            10,986
          
          
            
              
                De Kalb
              
            
            283
            1,954
            229
            5,496
            2,135
            228
            61
            0
            8,251
          
          
            
              
                Elkhart
              
            
            433
            2,872
            686
            8,093
            4,360
            518
            95
            0
            12,697
          
          
            
              
                Fulton
              
            
            93
            892
            584
            4,199
            2,516
            199
            15
            0
            5,982
          
          
            
              
                Jasper
              
            
            56
            318
            445
            2,655
            1,678
            71
            3
            0
            3,548
          
          
            
              
                Kosciusko
              
            
            139
            1,648
            871
            7,296
            3,522
            276
            14
            0
            10,244
          
          
            
              
                Lagrange
              
            
            466
            2,549
            269
            4,686
            2,260
            328
            89
            0
            8,387
          
          
            Lake
            256
            960
            81
            1,800
            1,147
            862
            32
            0
            3,991
          
          
            
              
                La Porte
              
            
            703
            3,083
            924
            6,590
            4,583
            783
            62
            1
            12,146
          
          
            Marshall
            102
            935
            436
            3,583
            2,250
            284
            9
            0
            5,349
          
          
            Miami
            190
            1,475
            1,444
            7,793
            4,447
            360
            41
            0
            11,303
          
          
            Noble
            216
            1,791
            390
            5,239
            2,163
            239
            71
            0
            7,946
          
          
            Porter
            303
            1,086
            309
            3,121
            1,779
            416
            1
            0
            5,236
          
          
            
              
                Pulaski
              
            
            23
            425
            233
            1,798
            975
            113
            4
            0
            2,596
          
          
            
              
                St. Joseph
              
            
            374
            2,134
            698
            6,910
            4,259
            833
            6
            0
            10,955
          
          
            Starke
            9
            111
            24
            404
            197
            9
            0
            0
            557
          
          
            
              
                Steuben
              
            
            532
            2,120
            80
            3,131
            1,412
            235
            7
            0
            6,105
          
          
            
              
                Wabash
              
            
            102
            1,556
            1,490
            8,541
            5,054
            413
            35
            1
            12,138
          
          
            White
            49
            622
            630
            3,328
            2,065
            70
            61
            0
            4,760
          
          
            
              
                Whitley
              
            
            101
            963
            398
            3,476
            1,571
            242
            9
            1
            5,190
          
          
            Total
            4,944
            31,819
            11,920
            104,822
            58,297
            10,955
            816
            10
            165,286
          
          
            Percentage
            2.99
            19.25
            7.21
            63.43
            35.27
            6.63
            .49
            
            
          
          
            
              * The figures listed under Indiana are included in the
                            figures listed under the North Central States.
          
        
        
          Nativity of Northern Indiana in 1850 by Counties in Percentage
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            At
          
          
            County
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Sea
          
          
            Allen
            2.35
            16.14
            3.32
            54.82
            31.49
            23.06
            .27
            .04
          
          
            Cass
            1.06
            14.52
            10.35
            67.43
            41.84
            5.23
            1.41
            .00
          
          
            
              
                De Kalb
              
            
            3.43
            23.68
            2.78
            66.61
            25.88
            2.76
            .74
            .00
          
          
            
              
                Elkhart
              
            
            3.41
            22.61
            5.40
            63.75
            34.34
            4.08
            .75
            .00
          
          
            
              
                Fulton
              
            
            1.55
            14.91
            9.77
            70.19
            42.06
            3.33
            .25
            .00
          
          
            
              
                Jasper
              
            
            1.58
            8.96
            12.54
            74.83
            47.29
            2.00
            .09
            .00
          
          
            
              
                Kosciusko
              
            
            1.36
            16.09
            8.50
            71.22
            34.38
            2.69
            .14
            .00
          
          
            
              
                Lagrange
              
            
            5.55
            30.39
            3.22
            55.87
            26.94
            3.91
            1.06
            .00
          
          
            Lake
            6.42
            24.05
            2.03
            45.10
            28.74
            21.60
            .80
            .00
          
          
            
              
                La Porte
              
            
            5.79
            25.38
            7.61
            54.26
            37.73
            6.45
            .51
            .00
          
          
            Marshall
            1.91
            17.48
            8.13
            67.00
            42.06
            5.31
            .17
            .00
          
          
            Miami
            1.68
            13.05
            12.77
            68.95
            39.34
            3.19
            .36
            .00
          
          
            Noble
            2.72
            22.55
            4.91
            65.93
            27.22
            3.00
            .89
            .00
          
          
            Porter
            5.79
            20.74
            5.90
            59.60
            33.98
            7.90
            .07
            .00
          
          
            
              
                Pulaski
              
            
            .89
            16.34
            8.98
            69.29
            37.56
            4.35
            .15
            .00
          
          
            
              
                St. Joseph
              
            
            3.40
            19.48
            6.37
            63.07
            38.88
            7.63
            .05
            .00
          
          
            Starke
            1.62
            19.93
            4.30
            72.53
            35.37
            1.62
            .00
            .00
          
          
            
              
                Steuben
              
            
            8.71
            34.73
            1.31
            51.29
            23.13
            3.85
            .11
            .00
          
          
            
              
                Wabash
              
            
            .84
            12.82
            12.28
            70.37
            41.64
            3.40
            .29
            .00
          
          
            White
            1.03
            13.07
            13.24
            69.91
            43.38
            1.47
            1.28
            .00
          
          
            
              
                Whitley
              
            
            1.95
            18.56
            7.67
            66.98
            30.27
            4.67
            .17
            .00
          
        
        
        
          Inhabitants in Northern Indiana by Counties from the New England States in 1850
          
            
            
            
            
            New
            Rhode
            
            
          
          
            County
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            Hampshire
            Island
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            Total
          
          
            Allen
            64
            66
            103
            38
            9
            117
            397
          
          
            Cass
            17
            18
            26
            7
            3
            46
            117
          
          
            
              
                De Kalb
              
            
            83
            5
            71
            19
            5
            100
            283
          
          
            
              
                Elkhart
              
            
            92
            26
            78
            31
            8
            198
            433
          
          
            
              
                Fulton
              
            
            30
            4
            33
            3
            1
            22
            93
          
          
            
              
                Jasper
              
            
            12
            18
            8
            1
            3
            14
            56
          
          
            
              
                Kosciusko
              
            
            42
            3
            36
            17
            3
            38
            139
          
          
            
              
                Lagrange
              
            
            142
            17
            108
            25
            17
            157
            466
          
          
            Lake
            63
            21
            47
            25
            6
            94
            256
          
          
            
              
                La Porte
              
            
            222
            30
            168
            72
            21
            190
            703
          
          
            Marshall
            23
            2
            18
            12
            6
            41
            102
          
          
            Miami
            40
            7
            33
            21
            4
            85
            190
          
          
            Noble
            42
            12
            49
            14
            5
            94
            216
          
          
            Porter
            68
            11
            69
            45
            23
            87
            303
          
          
            
              
                Pulaski
              
            
            6
            1
            7
            1
            1
            7
            23
          
          
            
              
                St. Joseph
              
            
            84
            62
            80
            31
            7
            110
            374
          
          
            Starke
            3
            0
            0
            5
            0
            1
            9
          
          
            
              
                Steuben
              
            
            87
            18
            147
            41
            11
            228
            532
          
          
            
              
                Wabash
              
            
            18
            10
            33
            4
            2
            35
            102
          
          
            White
            10
            12
            9
            4
            1
            13
            49
          
          
            
              
                Whitley
              
            
            26
            12
            18
            10
            4
            31
            101
          
          
            Total
            1,174
            355
            1,141
            426
            140
            1,708
            4,944
          
        
        
          Inhabitants in Northern Indiana by Counties from the North Central States in 1850
          
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            Wis-
            Northwest
            
          
          
            County
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            Indiana
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            consin
            Territory
            Total
          
          
            Allen
            6
            5,327
            0
            79
            3
            3,854
            6
            0
            9,275
          
          
            Cass
            23
            4,597
            3
            13
            9
            2,763
            0
            0
            7,408
          
          
            
              
                De Kalb
              
            
            4
            2,135
            0
            44
            0
            3,312
            1
            0
            5,496
          
          
            
              
                Elkhart
              
            
            21
            4,360
            11
            187
            6
            3,505
            3
            0
            8,093
          
          
            
              
                Fulton
              
            
            21
            2,516
            7
            14
            7
            1,634
            0
            0
            4,199
          
          
            
              
                Jasper
              
            
            26
            1,678
            4
            22
            2
            921
            2
            0
            2,655
          
          
            
              
                Kosciusko
              
            
            15
            3,522
            2
            37
            0
            3,720
            0
            0
            7,296
          
          
            
              
                Lagrange
              
            
            17
            2,260
            7
            144
            2
            2,250
            5
            1
            4,686
          
          
            Lake
            63
            1,147
            0
            72
            4
            510
            4
            0
            1,800
          
          
            
              
                La Porte
              
            
            92
            4,583
            13
            228
            19
            1,632
            23
            0
            6,590
          
          
            Marshall
            24
            2,250
            2
            31
            0
            1,276
            0
            0
            3,583
          
          
            Miami
            15
            4,447
            12
            54
            5
            3,259
            1
            0
            7,793
          
          
            Noble
            19
            2,163
            0
            62
            0
            2,994
            1
            0
            5,239
          
          
            Porter
            29
            1,779
            4
            123
            11
            1,168
            7
            0
            3,121
          
          
            
              
                Pulaski
              
            
            3
            975
            0
            1
            3
            814
            2
            0
            1,798
          
          
            
              
                St. Joseph
              
            
            32
            4,259
            11
            288
            6
            2,301
            13
            0
            6,910
          
          
            Starke
            3
            197
            0
            3
            0
            201
            0
            0
            404
          
          
            
              
                Steuben
              
            
            8
            1,412
            0
            180
            2
            1,527
            2
            0
            3,131
          
          
            
              
                Wabash
              
            
            23
            5,054
            6
            19
            12
            3,426
            1
            0
            8,541
          
          
            White
            19
            2,065
            3
            5
            2
            1,234
            0
            0
            3,328
          
          
            
              
                Whitley
              
            
            3
            1,571
            0
            16
            1
            1,885
            0
            0
            3,476
          
          
            Total
            466
            58,297
            85
            1,622
            94
            44,186
            71
            1
            104,822
          
        
        
        
          Inhabitants in Northern Indiana by Counties from the Middle Atlantic States in 1850
          
            County
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            
              
                New York
              
            
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            Total
          
          
            Allen
            16
            168
            1,235
            1,311
            2,730
          
          
            Cass
            71
            127
            315
            1,082
            1,595
          
          
            
              
                De Kalb
              
            
            3
            52
            764
            1,135
            1,954
          
          
            
              
                Elkhart
               27
            103
            1,156
            1,586
            2,872
          
          
            
              
                Fulton
               36
            73
            248
            535
            892
          
          
            
              
                Jasper
               8
            20
            98
            192
            318
          
          
            
              
                Kosciusko
              
            
            20
            102
            435
            1,091
            1,648
          
          
            
              
                Lagrange
              
            
            17
            158
            1,593
            781
            2,549
          
          
            Lake
            0
            45
            650
            265
            960
          
          
            
              
                La Porte
              
            
            7
            204
            1,991
            881
            3,083
          
          
            Marshall
            16
            73
            420
            426
            935
          
          
            Miami
            30
            91
            398
            956
            1,475
          
          
            Noble
            13
            57
            835
            886
            1,791
          
          
            Porter
            3
            32
            691
            360
            1,086
          
          
            
              
                Pulaski
              
            
            35
            22
            67
            301
            425
          
          
            
              
                St. Joseph
              
            
            57
            162
            1,169
            746
            2,134
          
          
            Starke
            25
            0
            30
            56
            111
          
          
            
              
                Steuben
              
            
            0
            71
            1,585
            464
            2,120
          
          
            
              
                Wabash
              
            
            60
            119
            292
            1,085
            1,556
          
          
            White
            25
            44
            104
            449
            622
          
          
            
              
                Whitley
              
            
            15
            50
            349
            549
            963
          
          
            Total
            484
            1,773
            14,425
            15,137
            31,819
          
        
        
          Inhabitants in Northern Indiana by Counties from the Southern States in 1850
          
            
            
            
            North
            South
            
            
            Southern
            
          
          
            County
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            Carolina
            Carolina
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            States*
            
            Total
          
          
            Allen
            65
            164
            33
            11
            5
            273
            11
            562
          
          
            Cass
            229
            159
            81
            32
            52
            563
            21
            1,137
          
          
            
              
                De Kalb
              
            
            8
            112
            1
            0
            1
            104
            3
            229
          
          
            
              
                Elkhart
              
            
            43
            132
            30
            9
            23
            448
            1
            686
          
          
            
              
                Fulton
              
            
            193
            40
            33
            19
            34
            263
            2
            584
          
          
            
              
                Jasper
              
            
            138
            31
            44
            5
            28
            197
            2
            445
          
          
            
              
                Kosciusko
              
            
            89
            129
            62
            8
            22
            549
            12
            871
          
          
            
              
                Lagrange
              
            
            19
            122
            6
            0
            1
            121
            0
            269
          
          
            Lake
            11
            11
            6
            1
            8
            40
            4
            81
          
          
            
              
                La Porte
              
            
            114
            54
            107
            11
            25
            572
            41
            924
          
          
            Marshall
            155
            50
            28
            14
            19
            170
            0
            436
          
          
            Miami
            247
            202
            216
            26
            60
            670
            23
            1,444
          
          
            Noble
            25
            109
            19
            2
            3
            230
            2
            390
          
          
            Porter
            50
            49
            25
            2
            13
            168
            2
            309
          
          
            
              
                Pulaski
              
            
            63
            32
            20
            4
            12
            102
            0
            233
          
          
            
              
                St. Joseph
              
            
            108
            111
            96
            20
            17
            340
            6
            698
          
          
            Starke
            2
            2
            0
            2
            2
            15
            1
            24
          
          
            
              
                Steuben
              
            
            4
            29
            1
            0
            3
            40
            3
            80
          
          
            
              
                Wabash
              
            
            361
            160
            238
            27
            52
            640
            12
            1,490
          
          
            White
            155
            60
            32
            11
            68
            299
            5
            630
          
          
            
              
                Whitley
              
            
            27
            61
            49
            11
            27
            215
            8
            398
          
          
            Total
            2,106
            1,819
            1,127
            215
            475
            6,019
            159
            11,920
          
          
            
              * Allen: 
                Alabama
               1, District of 
                Columbia
               4, 
                Georgia
               6. 
                Louisiana
               1. Cass: 
                Alabama
               1, 
                Arkansas
               1. District of 
                Columbia
               12, 
                Georgia
               6, 
                Louisiana
               1. 
                De Kalb
              : 
                Arkansas
               1, 
                Louisiana
               2. 
                Elkhart
              : District of 
                Columbia
               1. 
                Fulton
              : 
                Georgia
               2. 
                Jasper
              : District of 
                Columbia
               1, 
                Louisiana
               1. 
                Kosciusko
              : 
                Alabama
               6, District of 
                Columbia
               3. 
                Georgia
               4. Lake: 
                Georgia
               2. 
                Mississippi
               1. 
                Texas
               1. 
                La Porte
              : 
                Alabama
               1, District of 
                Columbia
               30. 
                Georgia
               3, 
                Louisiana
               4, 
                Mississippi
               1. 
                Texas
               2. Miami: 
                Alabama
               1, 
                Arkansas
               1, District of 
                Columbia
               3, 
                Georgia
               18. Noble: 
                Georgia
               1. 
                Louisiana
               1. Porter: 
                Arkansas
               2. 
                St. Joseph
              : 
                Alabama
               1, 
                Georgia
               4. 
                Louisiana
               1. Starke: 
                Alabama
               1. 
                Steuben
              : District of 
                Columbia
               3. 
                Wabash
              : 
                Alabama
               6. 
                Arkansas
               1. District of 
                Columbia
               1. 
                Georgia
               3, 
                Louisiana
               1, 
                Mississippi
               1. White: District of 
                Columbia
               1, 
                Georgia
               3, 
                Louisiana
               1. 
                Whitley
              : 
                Alabama
               5, District of 
                Columbia
               1, 
                Georgia
               2. 
                Alabama
               21, 
                Arkansas
               6, District of 
                Columbia
               60, 
                Georgia
               63, 
                Louisiana
               13, 
                Mississippi
               3. 
                Texas
               3.
          
        
        
        
          Inhabitants in Northern Indiana by Counties from the Foreign Countries in 1850
          
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            Other
            
          
          
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            Switzer-
            Foreign
            
          
          
            County
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            
              
                France
              
            
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            land
            Countries*
            
            Total
          
          
            Allen
            124
            197
            554
            2,439
            424
            56
            96
            12
            3,902
          
          
            Cass
            21
            96
            19
            178
            243
            11
            3
            3
            574
          
          
            
              
                De Kalb
              
            
            30
            33
            10
            112
            22
            9
            12
            0
            228
          
          
            
              
                Elkhart
              
            
            178
            35
            10
            196
            57
            20
            6
            16
            518
          
          
            
              
                Fulton
              
            
            44
            15
            7
            85
            32
            12
            2
            2
            199
          
          
            
              
                Jasper
              
            
            33
            19
            0
            8
            6
            0
            0
            5
            71
          
          
            
              
                Kosciusko
              
            
            22
            53
            4
            119
            53
            5
            15
            5
            276
          
          
            
              
                Lagrange
              
            
            66
            181
            2
            38
            15
            19
            1
            6
            328
          
          
            Lake
            171
            60
            5
            560
            60
            3
            0
            3
            862
          
          
            
              
                La Porte
              
            
            155
            173
            17
            122
            249
            46
            0
            21
            783
          
          
            Marshall
            45
            25
            3
            187
            17
            4
            0
            3
            284
          
          
            Miami
            3
            34
            4
            254
            46
            9
            9
            1
            360
          
          
            Noble
            15
            35
            4
            158
            14
            2
            11
            0
            239
          
          
            Porter
            226
            46
            2
            23
            100
            9
            0
            10
            416
          
          
            
              
                Pulaski
              
            
            11
            9
            9
            69
            8
            1
            5
            l
            113
          
          
            
              
                St. Joseph
              
            
            91
            78
            43
            415
            149
            31
            7
            19
            833
          
          
            Starke
            2
            2
            0
            0
            4
            0
            0
            1
            9
          
          
            
              
                Steuben
              
            
            45
            92
            2
            51
            22
            8
            15
            0
            235
          
          
            
              
                Wabash
              
            
            18
            34
            10
            138
            190
            4
            15
            4
            413
          
          
            White
            8
            22
            1
            13
            19
            4
            2
            1
            70
          
          
            
              
                Whitley
              
            
            15
            11
            9
            168
            36
            1
            0
            2
            242
          
          
            Total
            1,323
            1,250
            715
            5,333
            1,766
            254
            199
            115
            10,955
          
          
            
              * Allen: 
                India
               1, 
                Norway
               1, 
                Nova Scotia
               3, Russia 1, 
                Wales
               6. Cass: 
                New Brunswick
               2, 
                Norway
               1. 
                Elkhart
              : 
                India
               1, 
                New Brunswick
               6, 
                Norway
               1, 
                Prince Edward Island
               2, 
                Sweden
               1, Europe 6. 
                Fulton
              : 
                Wales
               2. 
                Jasper
              : 
                Norway
               2, 
                Wales
               3. 
                Kosciusko
              : Isle of Man 1, 
                Wales
               4. 
                Lagrange
              : East Indies 2, 
                New Brunswick
               1, 
                Nova Scotia
               3. Lake: 
                Nova Scotia
               3. 
                La Porte
              : 
                Spain
               1, Isle of Man 3, Madeira Island 3, 
                New Brunswick
               4, 
                Norway
               1, 
                Nova Scotia
               4, 
                Sweden
               2, 
                Wales
               2, West Indies 1. Marshall: 
                Norway
               3. Miami: Holland 1. Porter: 
                Hungary
               1, Isle of Man 2, 
                New Brunswick
               5, 
                Norway
               1, 
                Wales
               1. 
                Pulaski
              : 
                New Brunswick
               1. 
                St. Joseph
              : 
                Austria
               3, 
                Belgium
               4, British America 1, 
                Denmark
               1, Holland 2, Isle of Man 4, 
                New Brunswick
               1, 
                Nova Scotia
               2, 
                Wales
               1. Starke: 
                New Brunswick
               1. 
                Wabash
              : 
                Wales
               4. White: 
                Norway
               1. 
                Whitley
              : 
                Belgium
               1, 
                Nova Scotia
               1, 
                Austria
               3, 
                Belgium
               6, British America 1, 
                Spain
               1, 
                Denmark
               1, East Indies 2, Holland 3, 
                Hungary
               1, 
                India
               2, Isle of Man 10, Madeira Island 3, 
                New Brunswick
               20, 
                Norway
               11, 
                Nova Scotia
               16, 
                Prince Edward Island
               2, Russia 1, 
                Sweden
               3, 
                Wales
               23, West Indies 1, Europe 6.
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Allen County
            , Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New England States
            223
            174
            397
            2.35
          
          
            
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            35
            29
            64
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            42
            24
            66
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            48
            55
            103
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            22
            16
            38
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            6
            3
            9
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            70
            47
            117
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            1,451
            1,279
            2,730
            16.14
            
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            12
            4
            16
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            91
            77
            168
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            631
            604
            1,235
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            717
            594
            1,311
            
          
          
            North Central States
            4,752
            4,523
            9,275
            54.82
            
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            0
            6
            6
            
          
          
            Indiana
            2,752
            2,575
            5,327
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            34
            45
            79
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            3
            0
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            1,959
            1,895
            3,854
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            4
            2
            6
            
          
          
            Southern States
            316
            246
            562
            3.32
            
          
          
            
              
                Alabama
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            District of 
                Columbia
              
            
            2
            2
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Georgia
              
            
            4
            1
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            37
            28
            65
            
          
          
            
              
                Louisiana
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            90
            74
            164
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            17
            16
            33
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina 
              
            
            9
            2
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            2
            3
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            153
            120
            273
            
          
          
            Foreign
            2,119
            1,783
            3,902
            23.06
            
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            60
            64
            124
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            117
            80
            197
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            299
            256
            554
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            1,322
            1,117
            2,439
            
          
          
            
              
                India
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            227
            197
            424
            
          
          
            
              
                Norway
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Nova Scotia
              
            
            2
            1
            3
            
          
          
            Russia
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            34
            22
            56
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            54
            42
            96
            
          
          
            
              
                Wales
              
            
            3
            3
            6
            
          
          
            Unknown
            33
            13
            46
            .27
            
          
          
            Born at Sea
            1
            6
            7
            .04
            
          
          
            Grand Total
            8,895
            8,024
            16,919
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Cass County
            , Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New England States
            66
            51
            117
            1.06
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            7
            10
            17
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            12
            6
            18
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            15
            11
            26
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            4
            3
            7
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            2
            1
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            26
            20
            46
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            856
            739
            1,595
            14.52
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            36
            35
            71
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            62
            65
            127
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            170
            145
            315
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            588
            494
            1,082
            
          
          
            North Central States
            3,854
            3,554
            7,408
            67.43
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            12
            11
            23
            
          
          
            Indiana
            2,374
            2,223
            4,597
            
          
          
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            0
            3
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            9
            4
            13
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            3
            6
            9
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            1,456
            1,307
            2,763
            
          
          
            Southern States
            618
            519
            1,137
            10.35
          
          
            
              
                Alabama
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Arkansas
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            District of 
                Columbia
              
            
            7
            5
            12
            
          
          
            
              
                Georgia
              
            
            5
            1
            6
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            120
            109
            229
            
          
          
            
              
                Louisiana
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            83
            76
            159
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            43
            38
            81
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            18
            14
            32
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            23
            29
            52
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            316
            247
            563
            
          
          
            Foreign
            341
            233
            574
            5.23
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            9
            12
            21
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            55
            41
            96
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            12
            7
            19
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            108
            70
            178
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            144
            99
            243
            
          
          
            
              
                New Brunswick
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Norway
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            8
            3
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            2
            1
            3
            
          
          
            Unknown
            74
            81
            155
            1.41
          
          
            Grand Total
            5,809
            5,177
            10,986
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              De Kalb
             County, Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            148
            135
            283
            3.43
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            41
            42
            83
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            1
            4
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            41
            30
            71
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            13
            6
            19
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            4
            1
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            48
            52
            100
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            1,025
            929
            1,954
            23.68
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            1
            2
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            30
            22
            52
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            403
            361
            764
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            591
            544
            1,135
            
          
          
            North Central States
            2,869
            2,627
            5,496
            66.61
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            2
            2
            4
            
          
          
            Indiana
            1,104
            1,031
            2,135
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            24
            20
            44
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            1,738
            1,574
            3,312
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            Southern States
            120
            109
            229
            2.78
          
          
            
              
                Arkansas
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            4
            4
            8
            
          
          
            
              
                Louisiana
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            55
            57
            112
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            58
            46
            104
            
          
          
            Foreign
            132
            96
            228
            2.76
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            14
            16
            30
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            16
            17
            33
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            5
            5
            10
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            68
            44
            112
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            16
            6
            22
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            6
            3
            9
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            7
            5
            12
            
          
          
            Unknown
            41
            20
            61
            .74
          
          
            Grand Total
            4,335
            3,916
            8,251
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Elkhart
             County, Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            238
            195
            433
            3.41
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            46
            46
            92
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            16
            10
            26
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            44
            34
            78
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            15
            16
            31
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            3
            5
            8
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            114
            84
            198
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            1,537
            1,335
            2,872
            22.61
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            14
            13
            27
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            57
            46
            103
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            605
            551
            1,166
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            861
            725
            1,586
            
          
          
            North Central States
            4,141
            3,952
            8,093
            63.75
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            10
            11
            21
            
          
          
            Indiana
            2,237
            2,123
            4,360
            
          
          
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            5
            6
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            78
            109
            187
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            2
            4
            6
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            1,808
            1,697
            3,505
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            1
            2
            3
            
          
          
            Southern States
            365
            321
            686
            5.40
          
          
            District of 
                Columbia
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            20
            23
            43
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            72
            60
            132
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            16
            14
            30
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            6
            3
            9
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            12
            11
            23
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            238
            210
            448
            
          
          
            Foreign
            286
            232
            518
            4.08
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            92
            86
            178
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            21
            14
            35
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            8
            2
            10
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            110
            86
            196
            
          
          
            
              
                India
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            31
            26
            57
            
          
          
            
              
                New Brunswick
              
            
            3
            2
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Norway
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Prince Edward Island
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            11
            9
            20
            
          
          
            
              
                Sweden
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            3
            3
            6
            
          
          
            Europe
            5
            1
            6
            
          
          
            Unknown
            51
            44
            95
            .75
          
          
            Grand Total
            6,618
            6,079
            12,697
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Fulton County
            , Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            56
            37
            93
            1.55
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            21
            9
            30
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            0
            4
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            19
            14
            33
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            2
            1
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            13
            9
            22
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            492
            400
            892
            14.91
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            22
            14
            36
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            47
            26
            73
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            131
            117
            248
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            292
            243
            535
            
          
          
            North Central States
            2,179
            2,020
            4,199
            70.19
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            10
            11
            21
            
          
          
            Indiana
            1,336
            1,180
            2,516
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            7
            7
            14
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            3
            4
            7
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            817
            817
            1,634
            
          
          
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            6
            1
            7
            
          
          
            Southern States
            319
            265
            584
            9.77
          
          
            
              
                Georgia
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            102
            91
            193
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            22
            18
            40
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            20
            13
            33
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            7
            12
            19
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            19
            15
            34
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            148
            115
            263
            
          
          
            Foreign
            106
            93
            199
            3.33
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            16
            28
            44
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            10
            5
            15
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            4
            3
            7
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            48
            37
            85
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            20
            12
            32
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            7
            5
            12
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Wales
              
            
            0
            2
            2
            
          
          
            Unknown
            6
            9
            15
            .25
          
          
            Grand Total
            3,158
            2,824
            5,982
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Jasper County
            , Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            30
            26
            56
            1.58
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            9
            3
            12
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            5
            13
            18
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            5
            3
            8
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            1
            2
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            9
            5
            14
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            161
            157
            318
            8.96
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            5
            3
            8
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            13
            7
            20
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            49
            49
            98
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            94
            98
            192
            
          
          
            North Central States
            1,383
            1,272
            2,655
            74.83
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            14
            12
            26
            
          
          
            Indiana
            870
            808
            1,678
            
          
          
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            1
            3
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            12
            10
            22
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            0
            2
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            484
            437
            921
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            Southern States
            260
            185
            445
            12.54
          
          
            District of 
                Columbia
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            73
            65
            138
            
          
          
            
              
                Louisiana
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            17
            14
            31
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            25
            19
            44
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            2
            3
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            15
            13
            28
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            127
            70
            197
            
          
          
            Foreign
            40
            31
            71
            2.00
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            16
            17
            33
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            13
            6
            19
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            5
            3
            8
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            5
            1
            6
            
          
          
            
              
                Norway
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Wales
              
            
            0
            3
            3
            
          
          
            Unknown
            1
            2
            3
            .09
          
          
            Grand Total
            1,875
            1,673
            3,548
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Kosciusko County
            , Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            76
            63
            139
            1.36
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            24
            18
            42
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            1
            2
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            23
            13
            36
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            10
            7
            17
            
          
          
            Rhode Island
            3
            0
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            15
            23
            38
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            901
            747
            1,648
            16.09
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            9
            11
            20
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            64
            38
            102
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            234
            201
            435
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            594
            497
            1,091
            
          
          
            North Central States
            3,710
            3,586
            7,296
            71.22
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            6
            9
            15
            
          
          
            Indiana
            1,785
            1,737
            3,522
            
          
          
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            21
            16
            37
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            1,896
            1,824
            3,720
            
          
          
            Southern States
            463
            408
            871
            8.50
          
          
            
              
                Alabama
              
            
            2
            3
            5
            
          
          
            District of 
                Columbia
              
            
            2
            1
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Georgia
              
            
            2
            2
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            48
            41
            89
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            31
            31
            62
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            72
            57
            129
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            5
            3
            8
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            10
            12
            22
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            291
            258
            549
            
          
          
            Foreign
            166
            110
            276
            2.69
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            11
            11
            22
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            35
            18
            53
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            2
            2
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            71
            48
            119
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            31
            22
            53
            
          
          
            Isle of Man
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            4
            1
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            7
            8
            15
            
          
          
            
              
                Wales
              
            
            4
            0
            4
            
          
          
            Unknown
            7
            7
            14
            .14
          
          
            Grand Total
            5,323
            4,921
            10,244
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Lagrange County
            , Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            263
            203
            466
            5.55
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            75
            67
            142
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            11
            6
            17
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            61
            47
            108
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            16
            9
            25
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            9
            8
            17
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            91
            66
            157
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            1,325
            1,224
            2,549
            30.39
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            6
            11
            17
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            81
            77
            158
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            823
            770
            1,593
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            415
            366
            781
            
          
          
            North Central States
            2,448
            2,238
            4,686
            56.87
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            9
            8
            17
            
          
          
            Indiana
            1,153
            1,107
            2,260
            
          
          
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            2
            5
            7
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            79
            65
            144
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            1,198
            1,052
            2,250
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            4
            1
            5
            
          
          
            Northwest Territory
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            Southern States
            142
            127
            269
            3.22
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            7
            12
            19
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            65
            57
            122
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            3
            3
            6
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            66
            55
            121
            
          
          
            Foreign
            181
            147
            328
            3.91
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            30
            36
            66
            
          
          
            East Indies
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            103
            78
            181
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            20
            18
            38
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            10
            5
            15
            
          
          
            
              
                New Brunswick
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Nova Scotia
              
            
            3
            0
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            11
            8
            19
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            Unknown
            51
            38
            89
            1.06
          
          
            Grand Total
            4,410
            3,977
            8,387
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Lake County
            , Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            151
            105
            256
            6.42
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            38
            25
            63
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            13
            8
            21
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            26
            21
            47
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            15
            10
            25
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            3
            3
            6
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            56
            38
            94
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            512
            448
            960
            24.05
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            26
            19
            45
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            342
            308
            650
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            144
            121
            265
            
          
          
            North Central States
            997
            803
            1,800
            45.10
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            35
            28
            63
            
          
          
            Indiana
            632
            515
            1,147
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            38
            34
            72
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            2
            2
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            288
            222
            510
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            2
            2
            4
            
          
          
            Southern States
            43
            38
            81
            2.03
          
          
            
              
                Georgia
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            6
            5
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            6
            5
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                Mississippi
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            4
            2
            6
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            7
            1
            8
            
          
          
            
              
                Texas
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            17
            23
            40
            
          
          
            Foreign
            500
            362
            862
            21.60
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            94
            77
            171
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            43
            17
            60
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            2
            3
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            323
            237
            560
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            35
            25
            60
            
          
          
            
              
                Nova Scotia
              
            
            0
            3
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            3
            0
            3
            
          
          
            Unknown
            21
            11
            32
            .80
          
          
            Grand Total
            2,224
            1,767
            3,991
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              La Porte
             County, Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            393
            310
            703
            5.79
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            119
            103
            222
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            19
            11
            30
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            94
            74
            168
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            40
            32
            72
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            13
            8
            21
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            108
            82
            190
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            1,666
            1,417
            3,083
            25.38
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            4
            3
            7
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            103
            101
            204
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            1,081
            910
            1,991
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            478
            403
            881
            
          
          
            North Central States
            3,344
            3,246
            6,590
            54.26
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            49
            43
            92
            
          
          
            Indiana
            2,319
            2,264
            4,583
            
          
          
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            6
            7
            13
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            110
            118
            228
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            13
            6
            19
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            835
            797
            1,632
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            12
            11
            23
            
          
          
            Southern States
            468
            456
            924
            7.61
          
          
            
              
                Alabama
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            District of 
                Columbia
              
            
            19
            11
            30
            
          
          
            
              
                Georgia
              
            
            1
            2
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            59
            55
            114
            
          
          
            
              
                Louisiana
              
            
            3
            1
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            30
            24
            54
            
          
          
            
              
                Mississippi
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            53
            54
            107
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            6
            5
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            10
            15
            25
            
          
          
            
              
                Texas
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            283
            289
            572
            
          
          
            Foreign
            438
            345
            783
            6.46
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            77
            78
            155
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            103
            70
            173
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            11
            6
            17
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            80
            42
            122
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            134
            115
            249
            
          
          
            Isle of Man
            1
            2
            3
            
          
          
            Madeira Island
            2
            1
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                New Brunswick
              
            
            0
            4
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Nova Scotia
              
            
            2
            2
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Norway
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            25
            21
            46
            
          
          
            
              
                Spain
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Sweden
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Wales
              
            
            0
            2
            2
            
          
          
            West Indies
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            Unknown
            40
            22
            62
            .51
          
          
            Born at Sea
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            Grand Total
            6,349
            5,797
            12,146
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Marshall County
            , Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            64
            38
            102
            1.91
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            14
            9
            23
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            0
            2
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            15
            3
            18
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            6
            6
            12
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            3
            3
            6
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            26
            15
            41
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            507
            428
            935
            17.48
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            8
            8
            16
            
          
          
            New, Jersey
            35
            38
            73
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            224
            196
            420
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            240
            186
            426
            
          
          
            North Central States
            1,810
            1,773
            3,583
            67.00
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            13
            11
            24
            
          
          
            Indiana
            1,130
            1,120
            2,250
            
          
          
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            18
            13
            31
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            648
            628
            1,276
            
          
          
            Southern States
            245
            191
            436
            8.13
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            81
            74
            155
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            29
            21
            50
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            16
            12
            28
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            8
            6
            14
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            11
            8
            19
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            100
            70
            170
            
          
          
            Foreign
            155
            129
            284
            5.31
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            25
            20
            45
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            14
            11
            25
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            2
            1
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            102
            85
            187
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            8
            9
            17
            
          
          
            
              
                Norway
              
            
            1
            2
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            3
            1
            4
            
          
          
            Unknown
            4
            5
            9
            .17
          
          
            Grand Total
            2,785
            2,564
            5,349
            
          
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              Wabash County
            , Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            For-
            Un-
            At
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            eign
            known
            Sea
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            1
            0
            414
            404
            0
            0
            0
            415
            3.42
          
          
            1-4
            1
            30
            34
            1,777
            1,544
            2
            0
            0
            1,844
            15.19
          
          
            5-9
            2
            69
            51
            1,895
            1,289
            22
            0
            0
            2,039
            16.80
          
          
            10-14
            1
            104
            64
            1,369
            744
            22
            1
            0
            1,561
            12.86
          
          
            15-19
            1
            146
            99
            1,005
            428
            25
            5
            1
            1,282
            10.56
          
          
            20-29
            13
            351
            293
            1,278
            473
            113
            20
            0
            2,068
            17.04
          
          
            30-39
            29
            366
            359
            646
            151
            95
            4
            0
            1,499
            12.35
          
          
            40-49
            28
            231
            237
            134
            18
            69
            1
            0
            700
            5.77
          
          
            50-59
            16
            159
            242
            21
            2
            51
            4
            0
            493
            4.06
          
          
            60-69
            9
            73
            80
            0
            0
            12
            0
            0
            174
            1.43
          
          
            70-79
            1
            18
            27
            1
            0
            1
            0
            0
            48
            .40
          
          
            80-89
            1
            7
            4
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            13
            .10
          
          
            90-100
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            .01
          
          
            Unknown
            0
            0
            0
            1
            1
            0
            0
            0
            1
            .01
          
          
            Total
            102
            1,556
            1,490
            8,541
            5,054
            413
            054
            1
            12,138
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Miami County
            , Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            99
            91
            190
            1.68
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            20
            20
            40
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            3
            4
            7
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            19
            14
            33
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            10
            11
            21
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            3
            1
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            44
            41
            85
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            804
            671
            1,475
            13.05
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            19
            11
            30
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            44
            47
            91
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            216
            182
            398
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            525
            431
            956
            
          
          
            North Central States
            3,953
            3,840
            7,793
            68.95
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            7
            8
            15
            
          
          
            Indiana
            2,235
            2,212
            4,447
            
          
          
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            8
            4
            12
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            22
            32
            54
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            2
            3
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            1,678
            1,581
            3,259
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            Southern States
            792
            652
            1,444
            12.77
          
          
            
              
                Alabama
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Arkansas
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            District of 
                Columbia
              
            
            0
            3
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Georgia
              
            
            10
            8
            18
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            126
            121
            247
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            106
            96
            202
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            123
            93
            216
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            12
            14
            26
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            36
            24
            60
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            379
            291
            670
            
          
          
            Foreign
            188
            172
            360
            3.19
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            2
            1
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            20
            14
            34
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            3
            1
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            123
            131
            254
            
          
          
            Holland
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            29
            17
            46
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            5
            4
            9
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            5
            4
            9
            
          
          
            Unknown
            25
            16
            41
            .36
          
          
            Grand Total
            5,861
            5,442
            11,303
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in Noble County, Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            120
            96
            216
            2.72
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            26
            16
            42
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            7
            5
            12
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            31
            18
            49
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            7
            7
            14
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            2
            3
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            47
            47
            94
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            971
            820
            1,791
            22.55
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            8
            5
            13
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            34
            23
            57
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            451
            384
            835
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            478
            408
            886
            
          
          
            North Central States
            2,651
            2,588
            5,239
            65.93
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            16
            3
            19
            
          
          
            Indiana
            1,078
            1,085
            2,163
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            31
            31
            62
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            1,525
            1,469
            2,994
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            Southern States
            216
            174
            390
            4.91
          
          
            
              
                Georgia
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            13
            12
            25
            
          
          
            
              
                Louisiana
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            63
            46
            109
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            13
            6
            19
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            1
            2
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            123
            107
            230
            
          
          
            Foreign
            135
            104
            239
            3.00
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            12
            3
            15
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            21
            14
            35
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            3
            1
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            84
            74
            158
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            5
            9
            14
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            8
            3
            11
            
          
          
            Unknown
            38
            33
            71
            .89
          
          
            Grand Total
            4,131
            3,815
            7,946
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Porter County
            , Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            176
            127
            303
            5.79
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            38
            30
            68
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            6
            5
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            44
            25
            69
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            27
            18
            45
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            10
            13
            23
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            51
            36
            87
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            554
            532
            1,086
            20.74
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            3
            0
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            19
            13
            32
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            344
            347
            691
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            188
            172
            360
            
          
          
            North Central States
            1,643
            1,478
            3,121
            59.60
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            15
            14
            29
            
          
          
            Indiana
            914
            865
            1,779
            
          
          
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            1
            3
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            66
            57
            123
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            9
            2
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            635
            533
            1,168
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            3
            4
            7
            
          
          
            Southern States
            163
            146
            309
            5.90
          
          
            
              
                Arkansas
              
            
            0
            2
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            25
            25
            50
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            24
            25
            49
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            11
            14
            25
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            8
            5
            13
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            93
            75
            168
            
          
          
            Foreign
            249
            167
            416
            7.90
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            122
            104
            226
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            27
            19
            46
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            15
            8
            23
            
          
          
            
              
                Hungary
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            68
            32
            100
            
          
          
            Isle of Man
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                New Brunswick
              
            
            3
            2
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Norway
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            8
            1
            9
            
          
          
            
              
                Wales
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            Unknown
            1
            0
            1
            .07
          
          
            Grand Total
            2,786
            2,450
            5,236
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Pulaski
             County, Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            18
            5
            23
            .89
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            4
            2
            6
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            5
            2
            7
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            6
            1
            7
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            221
            204
            425
            16.34
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            18
            17
            35
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            13
            9
            22
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            30
            37
            67
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            160
            141
            301
            
          
          
            North Central States
            958
            840
            1,798
            69.29
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            1
            2
            3
            
          
          
            Indiana
            526
            449
            975
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            1
            2
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            428
            386
            814
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            Southern States
            118
            115
            233
            8.98
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            31
            32
            63
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            15
            17
            32
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            10
            10
            20
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            1
            3
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            8
            4
            12
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            53
            49
            102
            
          
          
            Foreign
            69
            44
            113
            4.35
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            6
            5
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            5
            4
            9
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            7
            2
            9
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            40
            29
            69
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            7
            1
            8
            
          
          
            
              
                New Brunswick
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            3
            2
            5
            
          
          
            Unknown
            4
            0
            4
            .15
          
          
            Grand Total
            1,388
            1,208
            2,596
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in St Joseph County, Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            211
            163
            374
            3.40
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            55
            29
            84
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            33
            29
            62
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            50
            30
            80
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            18
            13
            31
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            1
            6
            7
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            54
            56
            110
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            1,156
            978
            2,134
            19.48
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            32
            25
            57
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            93
            69
            162
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            607
            562
            1,169
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            424
            322
            746
            
          
          
            North Central States
            3,478
            3,432
            6,910
            63.07
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            17
            15
            32
            
          
          
            Indiana
            2,117
            2,142
            4,259
            
          
          
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            6
            5
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            150
            138
            288
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            3
            3
            6
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            1,181
            1,120
            2,301
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            4
            9
            13
            
          
          
            Southern States
            355
            343
            698
            6.37
          
          
            
              
                Alabama
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Georgia
              
            
            3
            1
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            45
            63
            108
            
          
          
            
              
                Louisiana
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            50
            61
            111
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            47
            49
            96
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            9
            11
            20
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            6
            11
            17
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            193
            147
            340
            
          
          
            Foreign
            491
            342
            833
            7.63
          
          
            
              
                Austria
              
            
            2
            1
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Belgium
              
            
            2
            2
            4
            
          
          
            British America
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            48
            43
            91
            
          
          
            
              
                Denmark
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            49
            29
            78
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            28
            15
            43
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            238
            177
            415
            
          
          
            Holland
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            91
            58
            149
            
          
          
            Isle of Man
            2
            2
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                New Brunswick
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Nova Scotia
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            22
            9
            31
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            4
            3
            7
            
          
          
            
              
                Wales
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            Unknown
            4
            2
            6
            .05
          
          
            Grand Total
            5,695
            56,260
            10,955
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in Starke County, Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            5
            4
            9
            1.62
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            2
            1
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            3
            2
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            53
            58
            111
            19.93
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            13
            12
            25
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            14
            16
            30
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            26
            30
            56
            
          
          
            North Central States
            216
            188
            404
            72.53
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            2
            1
            3
            
          
          
            Indiana
            101
            96
            197
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            0
            3
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            113
            88
            201
            
          
          
            Southern States
            15
            9
            24
            4.30
          
          
            
              
                Alabama
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            7
            8
            15
            
          
          
            Foreign
            6
            3
            9
            1.62
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            3
            1
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                New Brunswick
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            Grand Total
            295
            262
            557
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Steuben
             County, Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            263
            269
            532
            8.71
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            52
            35
            87
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            9
            9
            18
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            69
            78
            147
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            24
            17
            41
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            3
            8
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            106
            122
            228
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            1,129
            991
            2,120
            34.73
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            42
            29
            71
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            854
            731
            1,585
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            233
            231
            464
            
          
          
            North Central States
            1,594
            1,537
            3,131
            51.29
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            4
            4
            8
            
          
          
            Indiana
            708
            704
            1,412
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            86
            94
            180
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            0
            2
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            796
            731
            1,527
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            0
            2
            2
            
          
          
            Southern States
            38
            42
            80
            1.31
          
          
            District of 
                Columbia
              
            
            1
            2
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            2
            2
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            14
            15
            29
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            3
            0
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            17
            23
            40
            
          
          
            Foreign
            131
            104
            235
            3.85
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            24
            21
            45
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            54
            38
            92
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            27
            24
            51
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            12
            10
            22
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            6
            2
            8
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            6
            9
            15
            
          
          
            Unknown
            5
            2
            7
            .11
          
          
            Grand Total
            3,160
            2,945
            6,105
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Wabash County
            , Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            63
            39
            102
            .84
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            10
            8
            18
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            4
            6
            10
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            22
            11
            33
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            3
            1
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            22
            13
            35
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            821
            735
            1,556
            12.82
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            29
            31
            60
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            63
            56
            119
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            157
            135
            292
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            572
            513
            1,085
            
          
          
            North Central States
            4,473
            4,068
            8,541
            70.37
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            12
            11
            23
            
          
          
            Indiana
            2,636
            2,418
            5,054
            
          
          
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            3
            3
            6
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            8
            11
            19
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            9
            3
            12
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            1,805
            1,621
            3,426
            
          
          
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            Southern States
            767
            723
            1,490
            12.28
          
          
            
              
                Alabama
              
            
            4
            1
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Arkansas
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            District of 
                Columbia
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Georgia
              
            
            2
            1
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            172
            189
            361
            
          
          
            
              
                Louisiana
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            87
            73
            160
            
          
          
            
              
                Mississippi
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            .125
            113
            238
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            11
            16
            27
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            26
            26
            52
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            340
            300
            640
            
          
          
            Foreign
            244
            169
            413
            3.40
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            13
            5
            18
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            25
            9
            34
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            6
            4
            10
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            78
            60
            138
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            109
            81
            190
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            3
            1
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            8
            7
            15
            
          
          
            
              
                Wales
              
            
            2
            2
            4
            
          
          
            Unknown
            27
            8
            35
            .29
          
          
            Born at Sea
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            Grand Total
            6,395
            5,743
            12,138
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in White County, Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            32
            17
            49
            1.03
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            8
            2
            10
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            8
            4
            12
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            8
            1
            9
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            3
            1
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            5
            8
            13
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            342
            280
            622
            13.07
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            16
            9
            25
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            25
            19
            44
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            62
            42
            104
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            239
            210
            449
            
          
          
            North Central States
            1,695
            1,633
            3,328
            69.91
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            12
            7
            19
            
          
          
            Indiana
            1,035
            1,030
            2,066
            
          
          
            
              
                Iowa
              
            
            2
            1
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            3
            2
            5
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            0
            2
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            643
            591
            1,234
            
          
          
            Southern States
            328
            302
            630
            13.24
          
          
            District of 
                Columbia
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Georgia
              
            
            0
            3
            3
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            90
            65
            155
            
          
          
            
              
                Louisiana
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            29
            31
            60
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            15
            17
            32
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            5
            6
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            36
            32
            68
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            152
            147
            299
            
          
          
            Foreign
            50
            20
            70
            1.47
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            4
            4
            8
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            17
            5
            22
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            8
            5
            13
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            15
            4
            19
            
          
          
            
              
                Norway
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            2
            2
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Switzerland
              
            
            2
            0
            2
            
          
          
            Unknown
            43
            18
            61
            1.28
          
          
            Grand Total
            2,490
            2,270
            4,760
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Free Inhabitants in 
              Whitley County
            , Indiana, 1850
          
            
            Men
            Women
            Total
            %
          
          
            New 
                England States
              
            
            60
            41
            101
            1.95
          
          
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            17
            9
            26
            
          
          
            
              
                Maine
              
            
            7
            5
            12
            
          
          
            
              
                Massachusetts
              
            
            9
            9
            18
            
          
          
            
              
                New Hampshire
              
            
            6
            4
            10
            
          
          
            
              
                Rhode Island
              
            
            3
            1
            4
            
          
          
            
              
                Vermont
              
            
            18
            13
            31
            
          
          
            Middle Atlantic States
            510
            453
            963
            18.56
          
          
            
              
                Delaware
              
            
            10
            5
            15
            
          
          
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            34
            16
            50
            
          
          
            
              
                New York
              
            
            185
            164
            349
            
          
          
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            281
            268
            549
            
          
          
            North Central States
            1,807
            1,669
            3,476
            66.98
          
          
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            1
            2
            3
            
          
          
            Indiana
            806
            765
            1,571
            
          
          
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            7
            9
            16
            
          
          
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            992
            893
            1,885
            
          
          
            Southern States
            213
            185
            398
            7.67
          
          
            
              
                Alabama
              
            
            0
            5
            5
            
          
          
            District of 
                Columbia
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Georgia
              
            
            1
            1
            2
            
          
          
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            12
            15
            27
            
          
          
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            31
            30
            61
            
          
          
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            25
            24
            49
            
          
          
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            8
            3
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            17
            10
            27
            
          
          
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            119
            96
            215
            
          
          
            Foreign
            133
            109
            242
            4.67
          
          
            
              
                Belgium
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Canada
              
            
            7
            8
            15
            
          
          
            
              
                England
              
            
            6
            5
            11
            
          
          
            
              
                France
              
            
            7
            2
            9
            
          
          
            
              
                Germany
              
            
            91
            77
            168
            
          
          
            
              
                Ireland
              
            
            20
            16
            36
            
          
          
            
              
                Nova Scotia
              
            
            0
            1
            1
            
          
          
            
              
                Scotland
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            Unknown
            5
            4
            9
            .17
          
          
            Born at Sea
            1
            0
            1
            
          
          
            Grand Total
            2,729
            2,461
            5,190
            
          
        
        
        
          Nativity of Negroes in Northern Indiana by Counties in 1850
          
            County
            
              
                Connecticut
              
            
            
              
                New Jersey
              
            
            New York
            
              
                Pennsylvania
              
            
            
              
                Alabama
              
            
            District of 
                Columbia
              
            
            
              
                Kentucky
              
            
            
              
                Maryland
              
            
            
              
                North Carolina
              
            
            
              
                South Carolina
              
            
            
              
                Tennessee
              
            
            
              
                Virginia
              
            
            
              
                Illinois
              
            
            Indiana
            
            
              
                Michigan
              
            
            
              
                Missouri
              
            
            
              
                Ohio
              
            
            
              
                Wisconsin
              
            
            Unknown
            Total
          
          
            Allen
            0
            1
            1
            0
            0
            0
            5
            1
            4
            1
            1
            19
            0
            37
            3
            0
            26
            0
            1
            100
          
          
            Cass
            0
            0
            0
            2
            0
            1
            9
            1
            8
            0
            2
            2
            0
            28
            0
            0
            8
            0
            0
            61
          
          
            
              
                De Kalb
              
            
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            7
            0
            0
            10
          
          
            
              
                Elkhart
              
            
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            1
            0
            0
            0
            2
            0
            1
            8
            0
            1
            15
          
          
            
              
                Fulton
              
            
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
          
          
            
              
                Jasper
              
            
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            i
            1
          
          
            
              
                Kosciusko
              
            
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
          
          
            
              
                Lagrange
              
            
            1
            0
            1
            5
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            5
            0
            0
            4
            0
            0
            17
          
          
            Lake
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
          
          
            
              
                La Porte
              
            
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            1
            2
            1
            0
            24
            0
            9
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            39
          
          
            Marshall
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
          
          
            Miami
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            5
            0
            0
            2
            0
            8
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            16
          
          
            Noble
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            3
            0
            0
            2
            0
            0
            6
          
          
            Porter
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            2
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            5
          
          
            
              
                Pulaski
              
            
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
          
          
            
              
                St. Joseph
              
            
            0
            1
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            6
            1
            17
            3
            0
            8
            1
            0
            39
          
          
            Starke
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
          
          
            
              
                Steuben
              
            
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            2
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            2
          
          
            
              
                Wabash
              
            
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            8
            0
            0
            2
            0
            4
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            14
          
          
            White
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            6
            0
            1
            9
          
          
            
              
                Whitley
              
            
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            4
            7
            5
            23
            0
            44
            0
            0
            12
            0
            0
            97
          
          
            Total
            1
            3
            4
            9
            1
            4
            14
            7
            32
            10
            9
            85
            1
            158
            7
            1
            81
            1
            5
            433
          
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of Northern Indiana According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            For-
            Un-
            At
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            eign
            known
            Sea
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            3
            41
            5
            5,598
            5,425
            13
            17
            0
            5,677
            3.44
          
          
            1-4
            25
            476
            144
            22,106
            19,030
            198
            47
            1
            22,997
            13.90
          
          
            5-9
            85
            1,730
            282
            24,240
            16,667
            635
            75
            4
            27,051
            16.36
          
          
            10-14
            155
            2,645
            403
            17,612
            9,143
            896
            78
            0
            21,789
            13.18
          
          
            15-19
            298
            3,782
            829
            11,737
            3,854
            1,195
            103
            1
            17,945
            lg.86
          
          
            20-29
            733
            7,181
            2,414
            14,402
            3,080
            2,715
            190
            1
            27,636
            16.73
          
          
            30-39
            997
            6,831
            2,652
            6,857
            909
            2,346
            113
            2
            19,798
            11.97
          
          
            40-49
            1,111
            4,710
            2,438
            1,855
            132
            1,460
            79
            1
            11,654
            7.05
          
          
            50-59
            889
            2,807
            1,775
            288
            19
            973
            56
            0
            6,788
            4.11
          
          
            60-69
            478
            1,176
            708
            54
            11
            376
            22
            0
            2,814
            1.70
          
          
            70-79
            146
            341
            223
            21
            5
            110
            S
            0
            849
            .51
          
          
            80-89
            18
            67
            39
            5
            1
            20
            3
            0
            142
            .10
          
          
            90-100
            2
            9
            2
            0
            0
            5
            0
            0
            18
            .01
          
          
            Unknown
            4
            33
            6
            47
            21
            13
            25
            0
            128
            .08
          
          
            Total
            4,944
            31,819
            11,920
            104,822
            58,297
            10,955
            816
            10
            165,286
            
          
          
            
              *The figures listed under Indiana are included in
                            the figures listed under the North Central States.
          
        
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of Northern Indiana According to Place of Birth by
                        Percentage
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
          
          
            Below 1
            .06
            .13
            .04
            5.34
            9.31
            .12
          
          
            1-4
            .50
            1.49
            1.21
            21.09
            32.64
            1.80
          
          
            5-9
            1.72
            5.44
            2.37
            23.13
            28.59
            5.80
          
          
            10-14
            3.14
            8.31
            3.38
            16.80
            15.68
            8.19
          
          
            15-19
            6.03
            11.89
            6.95
            11.20
            6.61
            10.91
          
          
            20-29
            14.83
            22.57
            20.25
            13.74
            5.28
            24.78
          
          
            30-39
            20.16
            21.47
            22.24
            6.54
            1.56
            21.42
          
          
            40-49
            22.47
            14.80
            20.46
            1.77
            .23
            13.33
          
          
            50-59
            17.98
            8.82
            14.89
            .27
            .03
            8.88
          
          
            60-69
            9.67
            3.70
            5.94
            .05
            .02
            3.43
          
          
            70-79
            2.96
            1.07
            1.87
            .02
            .01
            1.00
          
          
            80-89
            .36
            .18
            .33
            .005
            .00
            .18
          
          
            90-100
            .04
            .03
            .02
            .00
            .00
            .04
          
          
            Unknown
            .08
            .10
            .05
            .045
            .04
            .12
          
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants I of 
              Allen County
            , Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            For-
            Un-
            At
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            eign
            known
            Sea
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            4
            1
            530
            515
            5
            0
            0
            540
            3.19
          
          
            1-4
            3
            59
            9
            2,281
            1,999
            85
            0
            1
            2,438
            14.41
          
          
            5-9
            10
            162
            13
            2,255
            1,642
            247
            0
            4
            2,691
            15.90
          
          
            10-14
            18
            274
            14
            1,431
            760
            348
            4
            0
            2,089
            12.35
          
          
            15-19
            30
            336
            39
            840
            233
            445
            8
            0
            1,698
            10.04
          
          
            20-29
            70
            634
            125
            1,138
            139
            965
            15
            1
            2,948
            17.42
          
          
            30-39
            87
            562
            141
            590
            31
            804
            9
            1
            2,194
            12.97
          
          
            40-49
            74
            381
            101
            161
            5
            500
            7
            0
            1,224
            7.23
          
          
            50-59
            56
            193
            76
            39
            1
            338
            3
            0
            705
            4.17
          
          
            60-69
            34
            92
            35
            7
            2
            124
            0
            0
            292
            1.72
          
          
            70-79
            14
            29
            8
            3
            0
            32
            0
            0
            86
            .51
          
          
            80-89
            1
            4
            0
            0
            0
            6
            0
            0
            11
            .07
          
          
            90-100
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            1
            .01
          
          
            Unknown
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            2
            0
            0
            2
            .01
          
          
            Total
            397
            2,730
            562
            9,275
            56,327
            3,902
            46
            7
            16,919
            
          
        
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              Cass County
            , Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            1
            2
            0
            388
            381
            0
            6
            397
            3.62
          
          
            1-4
            2
            21
            9
            1,376
            1,261
            16
            12
            1,436
            13.07
          
          
            5-9
            1
            80
            34
            1,534
            1,222
            30
            25
            1,704
            15.51
          
          
            10-14
            4
            143
            41
            1,268
            839
            27
            26
            1,509
            13.74
          
          
            15-19
            8
            186
            81
            920
            431
            53
            23
            1,271
            11.57
          
          
            20-29
            20
            335
            220
            1,180
            343
            148
            23
            1,926
            17.53
          
          
            30-39
            22
            308
            230
            537
            95
            142
            17
            1,256
            11.43
          
          
            40-49
            32
            272
            250
            163
            16
            64
            11
            792
            7.21
          
          
            50-59
            14
            144
            174
            27
            1
            57
            6
            422
            3.84
          
          
            60-69
            7
            81
            72
            3
            1
            22
            2
            187
            1.70
          
          
            70-79
            5
            20
            16
            2
            2
            12
            0
            55
            .50
          
          
            80-89
            0
            3
            4
            0
            0
            1
            0
            8
            .07
          
          
            90-100
            1
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            2
            .02
          
          
            Unknown
            0
            0
            5
            10
            5
            2
            4
            21
            .19
          
          
            Total
            117
            1,595
            1,137
            7,408
            4,597
            574
            155
            10,986
            
          
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              De Kalb
             County, Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            1
            0
            327
            319
            0
            1
            329
            3.99
          
          
            1-4
            0
            23
            2
            1,238
            956
            5
            0
            1,268
            15.37
          
          
            5-9
            1
            74
            4
            1,355
            642
            5
            4
            1,443
            17.49
          
          
            10-14
            2
            126
            6
            946
            184
            10
            5
            1,095
            13.27
          
          
            15-19
            10
            195
            9
            563
            22
            17
            3
            797
            9.66
          
          
            20-29
            38
            448
            24
            683
            6
            48
            12
            1,253
            15.19
          
          
            30-39
            64
            499
            55
            312
            3
            61
            9
            1,000
            12.12
          
          
            40-49
            61
            333
            54
            63
            2
            41
            13
            565
            6.85
          
          
            50-59
            58
            154
            44
            7
            0
            26
            8
            297
            3.59
          
          
            60-69
            37
            81
            22
            1
            0
            11
            3
            155
            1.88
          
          
            70-79
            11
            19
            9
            0
            0
            4
            1
            44
            .53
          
          
            80-89
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            .oo
          
          
            90-100
            1
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            2
            .02
          
          
            Unknown
            0
            0
            0
            1
            1
            0
            2
            3
            .04
          
          
            Total
            283
            1,954
            229
            5,496
            2,135
            228
            61
            8,251
            
          
        
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              Elkhart
             County, Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            2
            5
            0
            374
            362
            0
            0
            381
            3.00
          
          
            1-4
            3
            38
            3
            1,726
            1,486
            7
            4
            1,781
            14.03
          
          
            5-9
            3
            161
            2
            1,945
            1,334
            21
            6
            2,138
            16.84
          
          
            10-14
            14
            215
            8
            1,386
            771
            35
            6
            1,664
            13.10
          
          
            15-19
            33
            332
            46
            919
            268
            50
            14
            1,394
            10.99
          
          
            20-29
            49
            671
            140
            1,084
            108
            127
            19
            2,090
            16.46
          
          
            30-39
            86
            615
            152
            484
            28
            121
            15
            1,473
            11.60
          
          
            40-49
            107
            416
            155
            143
            1
            82
            3
            906
            7.14
          
          
            50-59
            70
            250
            110
            18
            0
            41
            3
            492
            3.88
          
          
            60-69
            46
            117
            45
            4
            0
            21
            5
            238
            1.87
          
          
            70-79
            16
            39
            19
            1
            1
            10
            2
            87
            .68
          
          
            80-89
            1
            2
            6
            0
            0
            0
            1
            10
            .08
          
          
            90-100
            0
            2
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            2
            -01
          
          
            Unknown
            3
            9
            0
            9
            1
            3
            17
            41
            .32
          
          
            Total
            433
            2,872
            686
            8,093
            4,360
            518
            95
            12,697
            
          
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              Fulton County
            , Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            1
            1
            225
            219
            0
            0
            227
            3.79
          
          
            1-4
            0
            20
            5
            860
            742
            3
            0
            888
            14.83
          
          
            5-9
            2
            45
            9
            926
            686
            8
            0
            990
            16.55
          
          
            10-14
            4
            80
            18
            693
            387
            8
            0
            803
            13.43
          
          
            15-19
            6
            91
            26
            493
            215
            19
            1
            636
            10.63
          
          
            20-29
            13
            185
            124
            604
            207
            46
            1
            973
            16.27
          
          
            30-39
            18
            195
            145
            294
            52
            39
            4
            695
            11.62
          
          
            40-49
            20
            131
            106
            87
            7
            34
            7
            385
            6.44
          
          
            50-59
            16
            90
            99
            14
            0
            29
            2
            250
            4.18
          
          
            60-69
            10
            41
            41
            3
            1
            11
            0
            106
            1.77
          
          
            70-79
            4
            8
            8
            0
            0
            2
            0
            22
            .37
          
          
            80-89
            0
            5
            2
            0
            0
            0
            0
            7
            .12
          
          
            90-100
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            .00
          
          
            Total
            93
            892
            584
            4,199
            2,516
            199
            2,5
            5,982
            
          
        
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              Jasper County
            , Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            0
            0
            148
            147
            0
            0
            148
            4.17
          
          
            1-4
            0
            0
            6
            498
            451
            2
            0
            506
            14.26
          
          
            5-9
            2
            5
            11
            568
            450
            6
            0
            592
            16.68
          
          
            10-14
            5
            15
            15
            455
            295
            9
            1
            500
            14.09
          
          
            15-19
            4
            38
            15
            335
            166
            9
            0
            401
            11.30
          
          
            20-29
            10
            67
            108
            384
            136
            13
            0
            582
            16.41
          
          
            30-39
            8
            64
            95
            196
            26
            8
            0
            371
            10.46
          
          
            40-49
            9
            64
            93
            63
            7
            12
            1
            242
            6.82
          
          
            50-59
            12
            35
            72
            8
            0
            9
            1
            137
            3.86
          
          
            60-69
            5
            24
            26
            0
            0
            1
            0
            56
            1.58
          
          
            70-79
            1
            4
            4
            0
            0
            1
            0
            10
            .28
          
          
            80-89
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            .03
          
          
            90-100
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            2
            .06
          
          
            Total
            56
            318
            445
            2,655
            1,678
            71
            3
            3,548
            
          
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              Kosciusko County
            , Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            0
            1
            370
            363
            I
            0
            372
            3.63
          
          
            1-4
            0
            26
            6
            1,389
            1,219
            5
            0
            1,426
            13.92
          
          
            5-9
            2
            49
            7
            1,678
            1,092
            16
            1
            1,753
            17.11
          
          
            10-14
            3
            111
            32
            1,260
            519
            23
            0
            1,429
            13.95
          
          
            15-19
            12
            161
            62
            855
            179
            31
            5
            1,126
            10.99
          
          
            20-29
            18
            318
            178
            1,038
            113
            59
            1
            1,612
            15.74
          
          
            30-39
            26
            410
            197
            544
            35
            60
            1
            1,238
            12.08
          
          
            40-49
            36
            289
            174
            144
            1
            46
            1
            690
            6.74
          
          
            50-59
            22
            167
            125
            13
            0
            24
            3
            354
            3.46
          
          
            60-69
            18
            88
            65
            3
            1
            11
            1
            186
            1.82
          
          
            70-79
            2
            28
            18
            2
            0
            0
            0
            50
            .48
          
          
            80-89
            0
            1
            6
            0
            0
            0
            1
            8
            .08
          
          
            90-100
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            .00
          
          
            Total
            139
            1,648
            871
            7,296
            3,522
            276
            1
            10,244
            
          
        
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of Lagrange County, Indiana, According to Place of
                        Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            2
            0
            274
            263
            2
            6
            284
            3.39
          
          
            1-4
            1
            24
            7
            954
            767
            7
            5
            998
            11.90
          
          
            5-9
            8
            137
            5
            1,153
            729
            17
            17
            1,337
            15.94
          
          
            10-14
            10
            208
            9
            825
            359
            28
            10
            1,090
            13.00
          
          
            15-19
            20
            335
            24
            548
            92
            39
            9
            975
            11.63
          
          
            20-29
            81
            674
            53
            595
            27
            79
            14
            1,496
            17.83
          
          
            30-39
            84
            518
            47
            228
            12
            68
            11
            956
            11.40
          
          
            40-49
            106
            323
            65
            80
            6
            29
            7
            610
            7.27
          
          
            50-59
            99
            212
            46
            15
            3
            30
            5
            407
            4.85
          
          
            60-69
            43
            77
            8
            4
            1
            20
            4
            156
            1.86
          
          
            70-79
            10
            31
            4
            3
            0
            6
            0
            54
            .65
          
          
            80-89
            3
            3
            1
            1
            0
            3
            0
            11
            .13
          
          
            90-100
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            .01
          
          
            Unknown
            1
            4
            0
            6
            1
            0
            1
            12
            .14
          
          
            Total
            466
            2,549
            269
            4,686
            2,260
            328
            89
            8,387
            
          
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              Lake County
            , Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            0
            0
            133
            131
            1
            0
            134
            3.36
          
          
            1-4
            0
            12
            1
            527
            450
            19
            3
            562
            14.08
          
          
            5-9
            2
            78
            0
            483
            341
            87
            3
            653
            16.36
          
          
            10-14
            7
            94
            1
            293
            159
            115
            4
            514
            12.88
          
          
            15-19
            16
            142
            8
            134
            25
            110
            2
            412
            10.32
          
          
            20-29
            44
            215
            20
            157
            31
            192
            6
            634
            15.89
          
          
            30-39
            45
            182
            19
            59
            10
            151
            8
            464
            11.63
          
          
            40-49
            57
            126
            14
            14
            0
            90
            5
            306
            7.67
          
          
            50-59
            49
            79
            12
            0
            0
            64
            0
            204
            5.11
          
          
            60-69
            28
            25
            5
            0
            0
            25
            1
            84
            2.10
          
          
            70-79
            8
            6
            1
            0
            0
            7
            0
            22
            .55
          
          
            80-89
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            .00
          
          
            90-100
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            2.05
          
          
            Total
            256
            960
            81
            1,800
            1,147
            862
            32
            3,991
            
          
        
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              La Porte
             County, Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            For-
            Un-
            At
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            eign
            known
            Sea
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            6
            0
            276
            266
            0
            0
            0
            282
            2.32
          
          
            1-4
            3
            36
            11
            1,414
            1,295
            11
            1
            0
            1,476
            12.15
          
          
            5-9
            7
            182
            31
            1,562
            1,286
            43
            4
            0
            1,829
            15.06
          
          
            10-14
            10
            267
            28
            1,165
            836
            60
            7
            0
            1,537
            12.66
          
          
            15-19
            37
            465
            80
            759
            393
            101
            11
            0
            1,453
            11.96
          
          
            20-29
            116
            733
            194
            884
            363
            228
            20
            0
            2,175
            17.91
          
          
            30-39
            130
            596
            189
            383
            118
            147
            3
            0
            1,448
            11.92
          
          
            40-49
            178
            400
            192
            117
            15
            102
            6
            1
            996
            8.20
          
          
            50-59
            138
            255
            127
            12
            0
            50
            6
            0
            588
            4.84
          
          
            60-69
            62
            88
            51
            5
            1
            23
            2
            0
            231
            1.90
          
          
            70-79
            21
            28
            15
            0
            0
            9
            1
            0
            74
            .61
          
          
            80-89
            1
            7
            5
            0
            0
            3
            0
            0
            16
            .13
          
          
            90-100
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            -00
          
          
            Unknown
            0
            20
            1
            13
            10
            6
            1
            0
            41
            .34
          
          
            Total
            703
            3,083
            924
            6,590
            4,583
            783
            62
            1
            12,146
            
          
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              Marshall County
            , Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            1
            0
            189
            177
            1
            0
            191
            3.57
          
          
            1-4
            0
            9
            3
            708
            604
            2
            0
            722
            13.50
          
          
            5-9
            0
            39
            11
            914
            654
            15
            1
            980
            18.32
          
          
            10-14
            2
            81
            13
            637
            396
            15
            3
            751
            14.04
          
          
            15-19
            5
            100
            25
            421
            200
            38
            1
            590
            11.03
          
          
            20-29
            10
            179
            60
            431
            163
            69
            2
            751
            14.04
          
          
            30-39
            17
            223
            123
            208
            50
            52
            2
            625
            11.68
          
          
            40-49
            23
            151
            111
            61
            5
            44
            0
            390
            7.29
          
          
            50-59
            27
            96
            44
            11
            1
            31
            0
            209
            3.91
          
          
            60-69
            12
            38
            29
            2
            0
            12
            0
            93
            1.74
          
          
            70-79
            4
            13
            16
            0
            0
            3
            0
            36
            .67
          
          
            80-89
            2
            5
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            8
            .15
          
          
            90-100
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            2
            0
            2
            .04
          
          
            Unknown
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            1
            .02
          
          
            Total
            102
            935
            436
            3,583
            2,250
            284
            9
            5,349
            
          
        
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              Miami County
            , Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            6
            1
            420
            399
            2
            2
            431
            3.82
          
          
            1-4
            1
            41
            29
            1,580
            1,348
            3
            5
            1,659
            14.68
          
          
            5-9
            3
            102
            38
            1,693
            1,164
            13
            5
            1,854
            16.40
          
          
            10-14
            7
            142
            53
            1,291
            665
            15
            2
            1,510
            13.36
          
          
            15-19
            12
            150
            115
            875
            355
            31
            5
            1,188
            10.51
          
          
            20-29
            36
            307
            287
            1,130
            356
            83
            12
            1,855
            16.41
          
          
            30-39
            43
            297
            336
            602
            122
            101
            2
            1,381
            12.22
          
          
            40-49
            36
            231
            276
            151
            25
            49
            1
            744
            6.58
          
          
            50-59
            25
            133
            193
            35
            7
            35
            5
            426
            3.77
          
          
            60-69
            21
            50
            88
            10
            3
            22
            1
            192
            1.69
          
          
            70-79
            5
            12
            23
            4
            2
            5
            0
            49
            .43
          
          
            80-89
            1
            4
            4
            2
            1
            1
            1
            13
            .12
          
          
            90-100
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            .01
          
          
            Total
            190
            1,475
            1,444
            7,793
            4,447
            360
            41
            11,303
            
          
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of Noble County, Indiana, According to Place of
                        Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            1
            0
            269
            257
            0
            1
            271
            3.41
          
          
            1-4
            3
            38
            3
            1,094
            872
            1
            16
            1,155
            14.54
          
          
            5-9
            4
            102
            6
            1,214
            654
            13
            7
            1,346
            16.94
          
          
            10-14
            5
            143
            10
            907
            287
            11
            5
            1,081
            13.60
          
          
            15-19
            14
            193
            19
            569
            51
            18
            3
            816
            10.27
          
          
            20-29
            26
            406
            65
            721
            23
            64
            15
            1,297
            16.32
          
          
            30-39
            52
            404
            90
            341
            14
            60
            10
            957
            12.04
          
          
            40-49
            44
            255
            89
            105
            2
            35
            7
            535
            6.73
          
          
            50-59
            41
            176
            72
            11
            2
            25
            5
            330
            4.15
          
          
            60-69
            21
            53
            32
            2
            0
            9
            1
            118
            1.49
          
          
            70-79
            5
            18
            4
            2
            0
            3
            1
            33
            .42
          
          
            80-89
            1
            2
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            3
            .04
          
          
            90-100
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            .00
          
          
            Unknown
            0
            0
            0
            4
            1
            0
            0
            4
            .05
          
          
            Total
            216
            1,791
            390
            5,239
            2,163
            239
            71
            7,946
            
          
        
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              Porter County
            , Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            1
            0
            147
            145
            1
            1
            150
            2.87
          
          
            1-4
            2
            12
            2
            673
            572
            9
            0
            698
            13.33
          
          
            5-9
            12
            68
            7
            724
            500
            23
            0
            834
            15.93
          
          
            10-14
            12
            91
            12
            535
            296
            56
            0
            706
            13.48
          
          
            15-19
            21
            141
            15
            359
            114
            65
            0
            601
            11.48
          
          
            20-29
            39
            257
            72
            423
            111
            108
            0
            899
            17.17
          
          
            30-39
            53
            205
            68
            198
            35
            90
            0
            614
            11.73
          
          
            40-49
            80
            163
            61
            52
            5
            31
            0
            387
            7.39
          
          
            50-59
            50
            104
            45
            8
            0
            23
            0
            230
            4.39
          
          
            60-69
            22
            37
            19
            2
            1
            9
            0
            89
            1.70
          
          
            70-79
            10
            7
            7
            0
            0
            0
            0
            24
            .46
          
          
            80-89
            2
            0
            1
            0
            0
            1
            0
            4
            .07
          
          
            90-100
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            .00
          
          
            Total
            303
            1,086
            309
            3,121
            1,779
            416
            1
            5,236
            
          
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              Pulaski
             County, Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            1
            0
            114
            110
            0
            0
            115
            4.43
          
          
            1-4
            0
            6
            0
            354
            309
            1
            0
            361
            13.91
          
          
            5-9
            0
            26
            7
            395
            271
            8
            0
            436
            16.80
          
          
            10-14
            0
            37
            8
            298
            155
            13
            0
            356
            13.71
          
          
            15-19
            0
            53
            17
            179
            61
            11
            0
            260
            10.02
          
          
            20-29
            2
            71
            52
            282
            48
            20
            0
            427
            16.45
          
          
            30-39
            6
            88
            52
            135
            18
            25
            2
            308
            11.86
          
          
            40-49
            6
            74
            49
            33
            3
            19
            1
            182
            7.01
          
          
            50-59
            7
            51
            31
            6
            0
            8
            1
            104
            4.01
          
          
            60-69
            1
            10
            6
            2
            0
            2
            0
            21
            .81
          
          
            70-79
            1
            6
            10
            0
            0
            6
            0
            23
            .88
          
          
            80-89
            0
            2
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            3
            .11
          
          
            90-100
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            .00
          
          
            Total
            23
            425
            233
            1,798
            975
            113
            4
            2,596
            
          
        
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              St. Joseph County
            , Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            1
            0
            388
            374
            0
            0
            389
            3.55
          
          
            1-4
            2
            27
            5
            1,431
            1,248
            9
            1
            1,475
            13.46
          
          
            5-9
            6
            116
            12
            1,555
            1,197
            26
            0
            1,715 -
            15.66
          
          
            10-14
            18
            137
            22
            1,125
            723
            65
            1
            1,368
            12.49
          
          
            15-19
            15
            236
            55
            797
            366
            92
            0
            1,195
            10.91
          
          
            20-29
            57
            484
            128
            1,003
            273
            217
            3
            1,892
            17.27
          
          
            30-39
            82
            490
            139
            454
            70
            194
            0
            1,359
            12.41
          
          
            40-49
            75
            328
            167
            137
            6
            144
            0
            851
            7.77
          
          
            50-59
            62
            197
            111
            13
            1
            59
            0
            442
            4.03
          
          
            60-69
            42
            83
            39
            3
            0
            17
            0
            184
            1.68
          
          
            70-79
            12
            27
            19
            2
            0
            6
            1
            67
            .61
          
          
            80-89
            3
            7
            1
            1
            0
            4
            0
            16
            .14
          
          
            90-100
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            .01
          
          
            Unknown
            0
            0
            0
            1
            1
            0
            0
            1
            .01
          
          
            Total
            374
            2,134
            698
            6,910
            4,259
            833
            6
            10,955
            
          
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of Starke County Indiana, According to Place of
                        Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            0
            0
            26
            25
            0
            0
            26
            4.67
          
          
            1-4
            0
            0
            0
            71
            58
            0
            0
            71
            12.75
          
          
            5-9
            0
            3
            0
            100
            65
            0
            0
            103
            18.49
          
          
            10-14
            1
            5
            0
            67
            27
            0
            0
            73
            13.10
          
          
            15-19
            1
            11
            0
            53
            10
            0
            0
            65
            11.67
          
          
            20-29
            0
            30
            5
            53
            8
            3
            0
            91
            16.34
          
          
            30-39
            0
            27
            6
            24
            4
            2
            0
            59
            10.59
          
          
            40-49
            4
            19
            6
            8
            0
            2
            0
            39
            7.00
          
          
            50-59
            1
            9
            5
            2
            0
            1
            0
            18
            3.23
          
          
            60-69
            2
            6
            2
            0
            0
            0
            0
            10
            1.80
          
          
            70-79
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            1
            .18
          
          
            80-89
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            .18
          
          
            90-100
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            .00
          
          
            Total
            9
            111
            24
            404
            197
            9
            0
            557
            
          
        
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              Steuben
             County, Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            5
            0
            193
            183
            0
            0
            198
            3.24
          
          
            1-4
            4
            22
            0
            762
            612
            8
            0
            796
            13.04
          
          
            5-9
            17
            142
            0
            799
            426
            19
            0
            977
            16.00
          
          
            10-14
            29
            230
            3
            538
            169
            17
            1
            818
            13.40
          
          
            15-19
            47
            311
            8
            326
            13
            18
            0
            710
            11.63
          
          
            20-29
            74
            504
            14
            343
            7
            57
            0
            992
            16.25
          
          
            30-39
            109
            428
            15
            136
            2
            52
            2
            742
            12.15
          
          
            40-49
            103
            272
            19
            22
            0
            27
            2
            445
            7.29
          
          
            50-59
            91
            155
            17
            9
            0
            29
            2
            303
            4.96
          
          
            60-69
            46
            41
            3
            1
            0
            8
            0
            99
            1.62
          
          
            70-79
            10
            8
            1
            1
            0
            0
            0
            20
            .33
          
          
            80-89
            2
            2
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            4
            .07
          
          
            90-100
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            .00
          
          
            Unknown
            0
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            1
            .02
          
          
            Total
            532
            2,120
            80
            3,131
            1,412
            235
            7
            6,105
            
          
        
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of White County, Indiana, According to Place of
                        Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            
            
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            Foreign
            Unknown
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            2
            1
            190
            187
            0
            0
            193
            4.05
          
          
            1-4
            0
            16
            9
            625
            581
            2
            0
            652
            13.69
          
          
            5-9
            2
            35
            28
            674
            550
            1
            2
            742
            15.59
          
          
            10-14
            3
            56
            28
            581
            417
            1
            2
            671
            14.09
          
          
            15-19
            1
            66
            59
            446
            198
            1
            13
            586
            12.31
          
          
            20-29
            6
            110
            157
            487
            105
            20
            25
            805
            16.91
          
          
            30-39
            14
            114
            114
            243
            21
            16
            11
            512
            10.75
          
          
            40-49
            6
            109
            136
            69
            6
            13
            5
            338
            7.14
          
          
            50-59
            12
            68
            67
            10
            0
            14
            0
            171
            3.59
          
          
            60-69
            3
            39
            20
            2
            0
            1
            1
            66
            1.38
          
          
            70-79
            2
            7
            9
            0
            0
            1
            2
            21
            .44
          
          
            80-89
            0
            0
            2
            1
            0
            0
            0
            3
            .06
          
          
            90-100
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            .00
          
          
            Total
            49
            622
            630
            3,328
            2,065
            70
            61
            4,760
            
          
        
        
          Age Distribution in 1850 of the Inhabitants of 
              Whitley County
            , Indiana, According to Place of Birth
          
            
            New
            Middle
            
            North
            
            For-
            Un-
            At
            
            
          
          
            
            
              
                England
              
            
            Atlantic
            Southern
            Central
            Indiana*
            
            eign
            known
            Sea
            Total
            %
          
          
            Below 1
            0
            1
            0
            203
            198
            0
            0
            0
            204
            3.93
          
          
            1-4
            0
            16
            0
            768
            656
            1
            0
            0
            785
            15.13
          
          
            5-9
            1
            55
            6
            818
            473
            15
            0
            0
            895
            17.25
          
          
            10-14
            0
            86
            18
            542
            155
            18
            0
            0
            664
            12.79
          
          
            15-19
            5
            94
            27
            341
            34
            22
            0
            0
            489
            9.42
          
          
            20-29
            11
            202
            95
            504
            40
            56
            2
            0
            870
            16.76
          
          
            30-39
            22
            240
            80
            243
            12
            58
            3
            1
            647
            12.47
          
          
            40-49
            26
            142
            83
            48
            2
            27
            1
            0
            327
            6.30
          
          
            50-59
            23
            80
            63
            9
            1
            29
            2
            0
            206
            3.97
          
          
            60-69
            9
            32
            20
            0
            0
            15
            1
            0
            77
            1.48
          
          
            70-79
            4
            13
            5
            0
            0
            1
            0
            0
            23
            .44
          
          
            80-89
            0
            1
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            2
            .04
          
          
            90-100
            0
            1
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            0
            1
            .02
          
          
            Total
            101
            963
            398
            3,476
            1,571
            242
            9
            1
            5,190
            
          
        
      
      
      
        Political Activities of Joseph Rodes Buchanan
        Hugh M. Ayer*
        

        By the end of 1856, Joseph Rodes Buchanan was ready for a change of environment. The events of that
                    year, which had led to the disruption of the Eclectic Institute and the establishment of a rival
                    school, had convinced him that he was "out of his element." He felt that he had
                    been "placed in a false light by appearing as a representative of practical medicine rather
                    than as the promulgator of a new philosophy," and he longed to be away from the scene of
                    his defeats.1 In addition, for more than five years he had been separated from
                    his family—except perhaps for infrequent visits—because the failing health of
                    his wife, "and other personal reasons," had necessitated their removal to 
            Louisville
           in July, 1851.2 Thus, early in 1857, Buchanan severed his relations
                    with the newly established Eclectic College of Medicine and rejoined his family in 
            Louisville
          .
        He arrived in 
            Louisville
           just in time to get into the thick of the political strife which grasped 
            Kentucky
           in the years preceding and during the Civil War. Heretofore Buchanan had taken no part
                    in politics, having regarded politicians as nothing more than a necessary evil; but disappointments
                    in his chosen career, plus his apparent realization of the fact that basic principles were at issue,
                    now prompted him to enter the political arena.

        Because of their centralized location, which enabled them to understand better the governmental
                    problems confronting the nation, Kentuckians of 1861 were "the most 
            
              * Hugh M. Ayer is a member of the history faculty at Culver
                            Military Academy, Culver, Indiana. This article is a part of a chapter of his
                            master's thesis at Indiana University, 1950, written under the direction of R.
                            Carlyle Buley.
            
              1 Harvey W. Felter, History of the Eclectic Medical
                                Institute, 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
                , 1845-1902 (
                Cincinnati
              , 1902), 99.
            
              2 "Announcements," Buchanan's Journal of Man (6 vols., 
                Cincinnati
               and 
                Boston
              , 1849-1856), III (1851), 2. In 
                Cincinnati
               the Buchanan family had lived in the old Lytle home, one of the most historic
                            houses in the city. The house, belonging to the family of Mrs. Buchanan's mother,
                            was torn down many years ago, but it is said that at one time the D.A.R. offered fifty
                            thousand dollars for the purchase of it in order to preserve it as a shrine. Mrs. Henry B.
                            Howry to the author, 
                Louisville, Kentucky
              , March 14, 1949.
          
           Constitution-abiding and peaceable of all
                        Americans."3 But by the logic of events, "it was only a
                    few months before the one issue in 
            Kentucky

           became union or secession. Every election from 1861 to 1864 hinged on that
                    question…, whatever the office to be filled might be."4 To
                    thinking Kentuckians, Civil War meant the direst of calamities, for they were on good terms with
                    their northern neighbors, and had no means of defending the 
            Ohio River
           line in case of war with them.5 But there were others in the state
                    to whom the institution of slavery was more sacred than the Union, and who apparently did not
                    realize the consequences of, secession. Thus the die was cast for conflict between the two groups.
        Humanitarian that he was, Buchanan was fundamentally opposed to slavery, and he quickly lined up with
                    the anti-secession group. As early as 1849 he had taken his stand on the slavery issue, when he
                    applauded the gradual emancipation plan proposed by Henry 
            Clay
          . Though he took issue with several points of the 
            Clay

           plan, he was glad to see that emancipation was receiving the consideration of
                    statesmen, and he hoped to see the day "when our National authorities and State governments
                    shall all regard it as the great end of government to secure the happiness and full educational
                    development of every human being under their control, of all ages and sexes,
                    colors, conditions, and characters."6
        
        Just how soon after his return to 
            Louisville
           Buchanan began to take part in 
            Kentucky
          's political affairs is not 
            
              3 Mary Scrugham, "The Peaceable Americans of
                            1860-1861," in 
                Columbia
               University Studies in History, Economics and Public Law (
                New York
              , 1891-), XCVI (1921), 421.
            
              4 James R. Robertson, "Sectionalism in 
                Kentucky
               from 1855 to 1865," 
                
                  Mississippi Valley
                 Historical Review (Cedar Rapids, 
                Iowa
              , 1914-),IV (1917-1918), 59.
            
              5 Scrugham, "The Peaceable Americans," in 
                Columbia
               University Studies in History, Economics and Public Law,
                            XCVI, 519-20.
            
              6 "Familiar Table Talk," Buchanan's Journal of Man, I (1849), 138. Buchanan differed with 
                Clay
               in that: (1) he did not consider colonization essential, though he would favor
                            it if it would prevent a political conflict between the two races; (2) he did not think it
                            necessary to prolong slavery longer than to the age of eighteen, or possibly twenty-one (
                Clay

               recommended twenty-five); and (3) he thought the mere emancipation and
                            colonization of the Nero wholly insufficient. "If the negro is to be restored at
                            last to his rights," he said, "let it be done fully and freely; let him be
                            elevated to the proper level of a freeman, by a solid education, which shall qualify him for
                            self-government, and enable him, if he returns to Africa, to carry with him civilization,
                            freedom, science, art, and all the elements of happiness." Ibid.
                            By 1852 he had concluded that separation of the two races was a necessity. Ibid., III, 31.
          
           revealed. But by 1863 he had become sufficiently established to
                    seek election to the 
            United States

           Congress. Campaigning under the banner of the Peace party, he was unsuccessful in this
                    venture. But not to be outdone, he joined the ranks of the regular Democratic party, rapidly
                    advanced to a position of leadership in that organization, and late in 1863—or early in
                    1864—was elected chairman of the Democratic State Central Committee.7
        
        One of Buchanan's first acts in his new position was to call a state convention, which met
                    at 
            Frankfort
           on February 18, 1864. Two hundred delegates, representing forty counties, met to make
                    nominations for the various state offices, but after six resolutions "embodying the views
                    of this meeting" had been drawn up Colonel E. A. Gilbert, commander of the Union forces at 
            Frankfort

          , disbanded the convention and ordered the delegates home. Dr. A. B. Chambers promptly
                    presented the six resolutions to Colonel Gilbert, but the latter refused to let them be read and
                    said positively that "the convention must not be holden [sic]";
                    he did, however, retain a list of the delegates, remarking that "it might be of great
                    importance." Buchanan probably attended this convention, though no record of his presence
                    has been found. At any rate, his name was one of those appearing on a resolution which was presented
                    to the 
            Kentucky

           House of Representatives on the following day, requesting the adoption "of
                    such legislation as will best conserve the constitutional right of citizens peacefully to assemble
                    together, the right of sufferage, and the right of free speech, and protect the citizens from
                    military violence."8 The resolution was rejected, thus setting the
                    stage for further coercion.
        With the approach of the presidential campaign of 1864 the Democrats of 
            Kentucky
           made preparations for their representation at the national convention. Among the
                    delegates elected were John W. Leathers, from the 
            Covington
          
          
            
              7 H. A. Kelly and W. L. Burrage, Dictionary of American
                                Medical Biographies (
                New York
              , 1928), 163; Ernest S. Bates, "Joseph Rodes Buchanan," Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                New York

              , 1943), III, 217. Buchanan was equally opposed to secession and to war, and
                            even after the former had become an accomplished fact he still sought to prevent, and later
                            to end, war. 
                
                  Louisville
                 Past and Present: Its Industrial History (
                Louisville
              , 1875), 175.
            
              8 Lewis Collins, History of 
                  Kentucky
                
               (2 vols., 
                Louisville
              , 1924), I, 119, 120.
          
           district, and Buchanan, from the state at large. The convention
                    was scheduled to meet in 
            Chicago
           on August 29. On August 2 both Buchanan and Leathers were arrested, apparently without
                    charge. Deprived of seeing his friends or lawyers, and robbed of his papers "referring to
                    the credentials of the 
            Kentucky
           delegates to the 
            Chicago
           convention,"9 Buchanan remained in the federal prison at 
            Louisville
           until after the work of the convention had been completed.
        On hand when the convention opened, however, was 
            Kentucky
          's former Governor Charles A. Wickliffe, bearing letters from both Buchanan
                    and Leathers to explain their absence. According to his letter, which was promptly read before the
                    convention, Buchanan had been arrested "upon vague suspicions," and he declared
                    that he was guilty of no crime "but devotion to democracy and abhorence of war."
                    He noted that many of 
            Kentucky
          's most prominent citizens continued to be spirited away and secretly
                    confined, and asserted his belief that it was all a part of Mr. 
            Lincoln
          's bold schemes for the perpetuation of his despotism, by the aid of a
                    fictitious vote in 
            Kentucky
           and other border states. There is no freedom of election in 
            Kentucky
           but by gracious permission. The life, liberty and property of every
                    citizen are at the mercy of the President and his subordinates. It is customary with them to
                    pronounce every man disloyal who is opposed to Mr. 
            Lincoln
          , and to the continuance of the present ferocious war."10
                    He then concluded by urging the national convention to take a firm stand against these practices of
                    the administration.
        The letters were tabled and Wickliffe took the floor to reveal his knowledge of conditions in 
            Kentucky
          . Many of the state's most loyal citizens, among them twenty or thirty
                    ladies, he declared, were at that time imprisoned, by the military forces in 
            Louisville
          , "in damp and dirty cells, with 
            
              9
              Ibid., 139; Official Proceedings of the Democratic National
                                Convention Held in 1864 in 
                  Chicago
                
               (
                Chicago

              , 1864), 7-8. The arrest of Buchanan, and other leading citizens, was ordered by
                            General Burbridge, acting under the instruction of General Sherman, "and partly
                            upon Gen. Carrington's information to Gov. O. P. Morton, of Indiana."
                            Collins, History of 
                  Kentucky
                
              , I, 137. Just how the information of Indiana's governor was
                            connected with the situation in 
                Kentucky
               is not revealed.
            
              10
              Official Proceedings of the Democratic National Convention Held in 1864 in 
                  Chicago
                
              , 7-8. See also, The Crisis (10 vols.,
                                    
                Columbus, Ohio
              , 1861-1871), IV (1864-1865), 258.
          
           only straw to lie upon, and the coarsest fare"; local
                    newspapers were "forbidden to make the slightest allusion to this terrible state of
                    affairs." In regard to these charges Dr. E. O. Brown, surgeon in charge of the prison,
                    subsequently "denied that the female prisoners are confined in 'damp, dark, and
                    filthy cells,'" but he did not deny that male prisoners were poorly situated.11
        
        Buchanan's imprisonment and his letter to the convention, however, had no apparent effect
                    on the proceedings of the Democratic organization. The convention continued with its work in the
                    usual manner, nominated its candidate, and adjourned on August 31, while Buchanan and his political
                    cohorts remained in the unsavory prison a few more weeks and finally were dismissed sometime in
                    September.
        Following his release from prison, Buchanan continued to guide the policy of his party in 
            Kentucky

           in "a wise and conservative manner." In May, 1866, contrary to the
                    wishes of the leading politicians of the state, he called another state convention, which resulted
                    in the re-establishment of the party in power. The favorable results of this action were so
                    appreciated by Buchanan's friends that they urged him to run for governor of the state.
                    But, "believing that his proper vocation was not in politics," he declined the
                    request and, in addition, resigned his position as chairman of the state organization.12
        
        There is no record of how Buchanan occupied the time not devoted to politics during the years from
                    1856 to 1866. One writer has said that from 1856 to 1861 he devoted himself mainly to the care of
                    "his family and property" in 
            Louisville

          . The family mentioned consisted of his wife— who for several years had been
                    in poor health, and therefore probably required a good deal of his attention—and four
                        children.13
          
            
              11 Collins, History of 
                  Kentucky
                
              , I, 139.
            
              12
              
                
                  Louisville
                 Past and Present, 175. See also, Biographical
                                Encyclopedia of 
                  Kentucky
                
               (
                Cincinnati
              , 1878), 653. A local cartoon represented Buchanan with a huge mortar and
                            pestle, coat tails flying, over the caption: "Dr. Buchanan, chief cook and
                            Bottle-Washer of the Democratic Party." Mrs. Henry B. Howry to the author,
                                    
                Louisville, Kentucky
              , March 14, 1949.
            
              13
              Biographical Encyclopedia of 
                  Kentucky
                
              , 653. The four children were: Rowan and Lytle Buchanan, both of whom
                            became lawyers and practiced in 
                Louisville
              ; Anselan, who was an Episcopal minister; and Alice Wakefield Buchanan, who
                            married Samuel E. Wevnall of Bourbon County, 
                Kentucky
              , and moved to 
                Kansas City
              , 
                Missouri
              . Lytle married Mary 
                Houston
               of 
                Louisville
              , and Anselan married Willia Thompson, also of 
                Louisville
              . Rowan remained a bachelor. Mrs. Henry B. Howry to the author, Bartlesville, 
                Oklahoma
              , July 8, 1949.
          
           But of the nature of Buchanan's property in 
            Louisville
           nothing has been found. Quite likely he owned his home, though frequent references to
                    his residence would seem to indicate otherwise; but whether he possessed any rental or business
                    property is merely a matter of speculation. In order to support a family of five, however, he must
                    have had some source of income during the years that he was not employed as a teacher, and the fact
                    that Judge John Rowan was quite wealthy leads to the suggestion that Mrs. Buchanan may have
                    inherited some property in 
            Louisville
          .

        It is also possible that Buchanan devoted a part of his time during these years to experiments in
                    mechanical science. Like his father, he had always been interested in new inventions, and
                    occasionally he tried his hand at the art. In 1849, while discussing the various proposals for a
                    transcontinental railroad, he questioned whether, in the future, "the line of quickest
                    travel will be on solid iron rails… or whether it will be THROUGH THE AIR!"
                    Continuing this line of thought, he wrote: "For my own part, I do not believe the air line
                    of travel impossible, even without the wire-way to guide it, and the balloon to support it. It is
                    only requisite that we obtain a sufficient amount of power in proportion to the weight of machinery
                    employed. Such an apparatus, capable of generating the necessary power for an
                    aerial flight, I have invented some years since. It is possible that I may find
                    time and means to put the invention into operation. It is needless to say, that, for such a purpose,
                    a much more efficient power than steam or galvanism will be required—a power which may be
                    dangerous, if not carefully guarded by strong apparatus.

        "Such machinery I have invented: the principles are simple enough, and if my own machinery
                    should not be executed, I doubt not that others will grasp the same idea, and that in a few years
                    more, aerial navigation will be as common-place a fact as the magnetic telegraph."14
        

        It cannot be denied that Buchanan called this one right; and it would be of interest to know the
                    nature of this apparatus 
            
              14 "Our Destiny," Buchanan's
                                Journal of Nan, I, 128-29. The italics are the writer's.
          
           and mode of power that he had devised, but apparently no record
                    of it, other than that quoted above, has been left.
        But whatever other activities may have held his attention during his sojourn in 
            Louisville

          , the rigors of political life were too demanding for the restless, exploring nature of
                    the neurologist. For ten years he had been separated from the things dearest to
                    him—teaching and research;15 no doubt he longed for the lecture room
                    and the rostrum, and it is more than remarkable that one of his nature remained for so long
                    separated from these things. Thus, soon after resigning his chairmanship of the Democratic Central
                    Committee of 
            Kentucky
          , Buchanan was on the move once more, and for the second time he decided to try his
                    fortunes in the East.
        
          
            15 It is probable that he continued his research and experimental work
                        during this period, but there is no record of such.
        
      
      
      
        Economic and Business History
        Thomas P. Martin*
        
        A session on economic and business history similar to that of last year was held on Friday evening,
                    December 5, 1952, in connection with the Indiana History Conference. Herschel Hollopeter of the
                    State Chamber of Commerce presided. Kathryn Troxel gave a brief account of eighteenth century
                    business and economic history materials at Indiana University, and announced the preparation of a
                    check list supplementary to 
            Harvard
          's catalogue of the Kress Collection.1 Stephen G. Savage
                    presented a summary and some appendix (statistical) material from his recently completed thesis
                    entitled, "James Howard of 
            Jeffersonville
          , Master Builder of Steamboats;" and Thomas Wells Meloan, read a paper, on the
                    "Development of the House Trailer Industry in Indiana." A panel consisting of John
                    D. Barnhart, Joseph A. Batchelor, Thomas P. Martin, Bernard Olsen, and L. L. Waters discussed
                    "Those Old Records: Dead Today, Alive Tomorrow." A record of this discussion will
                    be used for radio broadcasting.
        
          
            * Thomas P. Martin is Secretary of the 
              Bloomington
             Committee on Economic and Business History.
          
            1
            The Kress Library of Business and Economics, founded upon the collection of books
                            made by Herbert Somerton… (
              Boston
            , 1939).
        
      
      
      
        Archeology and Local History
        J. C. Harrington*
        
        It is becoming more and more evident that archeology no longer limits its interests and activities to
                    the study of prehistoric peoples or to ancient civilizations that have produced great works of art
                    and architecture. Experience in this country over the past fifteen or twenty years has demonstrated
                    quite convincingly that the methods and techniques of archeology can be applied advantageously to
                    the field of local history. This has come about, I believe, not only because archeologists have been
                    willing to enter new fields, but also because the interests of local history have broadened.
                    Archeology cannot contribute much to a study of genealogy, but local history groups have certainly
                    advanced far beyond the narrower objectives of genealogical societies.
        It is surprising that historians in the 
            United States
           have been so slow in making use of this obvious historical tool, for in European
                    countries, especially Great Britain, historians and archeologists have been working hand in hand for
                    a long time. This has been especially noticable in their county "antiquarian"
                    societies.
        In my talk to you today I am for the most part, going to be strictly practical and discuss with you
                    how you might go about getting some digging done when and if you decide you can use more information
                    than you can find in books, letters, deeds, and other historical standbys. I am not going to try to
                    sell you on the advantages of tackling local history with a pick and shovel, for I am confident that
                    all of you are acquainted with the accomplishments and possibilities of archeological research in
                    the study of American history.
        I would like nothing better than to tell you about some of these projects—the recent work
                    at the site of the iron furnace at Saugus; the work on Pilgrim plantation sites around 
            Plymouth
          ; the important information on the era of westward expansion that is coming to light
                    from combined archeological and historical research in the 
            Missouri River
          
          
            
              * J. C. Harrington is regional archaeologist of the
                            National Park Service, 
                United States
               Department of the Interior. He is stationed in Region One, with headquarters at
                                    
                Richmond, Virginia
              . He has worked extensively in that state and read this paper at the annual
                            meeting of the American Association for State and Local History.
          
           basin and other sections of the west and northwest; and I would
                    like particularly to describe the contributions that have been made by archeologists in the study of
                    the Spanish, French, and English colonial periods. Then there are the numerous projects connected
                    with the restoration of historic structures; projects, by the way, that are especially susceptible
                    to the application of archeological procedures. Since I will not be able to discuss any of these
                    projects associated with historic house restoration, I want to emphasize that the contributions of
                    archeology in this particular field have furnished much more information of historical interest than
                    just the reconstruction data.
        To point up some of the problems, more than to show accomplishments, I will take time to describe
                    briefly one example—the work carried on by the National Park Service over the past four
                    years at Fort Raleigh on 
            Roanoke
           Island, 
            North Carolina
          . Although we have completed the project there with a reconstruction of the original
                    fort, this was not the original objective. In fact, when we started the work in 1947, we had no idea
                    that reconstruction would be at all possible or desirable. Our primary aims were to locate and
                    identify the site and to add any information possible to the scant documentary sources as to the
                    layout of the settlement, types of structures built, and other facts concerning the history of this
                    first English colony. There were no maps or drawings dating from the period of the settlement and no
                    written descriptions. In fact, we were not at all certain that we were exploring the actual site
                    where the Raleigh colonists settled.
        It was not entirely a matter of working in the dark, for there did exist a small rise of ground which
                    tradition had long held to be the site of the, "Citie of Ralegh in 
            Virginia
          ." During the first season, funds were inadequate to carry out a large-scale
                    excavation, so it was important that every trench be so placed that it would be most apt to produce
                    tangible results. The first thing we did was to excavate an exploratory trench, five feet wide,
                    straight across one edge of the traditional fort site. Tradition proved to be right. Our first
                    trench cut across two old ditches, which further exploring proved beyond a doubt to be the remains
                    of an old earthwork.

        The next question was to determine whether these were remains of the 1585 fort, or a later defensive
                    work, possibly  even a Civil War fort, of which there are several
                    nearby. We were prejudiced against accepting this immediately as the 1585 fort, both because of the
                    usual "scientific caution" for which archeologists are famous, and because we had
                    always conceived of Fort Raleigh as having been a rugged structure of immense logs set upright in
                    the ground, rather than a simple earthwork.
        We recognized that one definite means of identification would be the finding of objects of the
                    Elizabethan period in such a position that their presence could only be explained by the acceptance
                    of this ditch as part of the original fort. Archeologists, of course, depend a lot on artifacts. Our
                    first season's work, however, failed to discover such objects, but we did uncover enough
                    of the original fort ditch to enable us to determine the approximate size and shape of the
                    earthwork. When plotted on paper the fort outline strongly resembled the earthwork built by Ralph
                    Lane on the island of 
            Puerto Rico
           where the colonists stopped on their way to 
            Roanoke
           Island. By good fortune, this Puerto Rican fort was sketched by one of the colonists
                    and the drawing is preserved to this day.
        The next season, 1948, we worked out the shape of the fort more exactly and even located its
                    principal entrance. It was now apparent that this was actually the fort built by the Raleigh
                    colonists for it was almost identical in plan to the one at 
            Puerto Rico
          . Moreover, it was typically medieval in form, especially in the absence of conventional
                    bastions which became so systematized and stylized in defensive works of this nature soon after this
                    time. The point of real interest is that the identification came about, not from direct
                    archeological evidence, but from the fortunate opportunity for combining archeological information
                    with historical knowledge.
        The earthwork erected on 
            Roanoke

           Island in 1585 proved to be a small defensive work with an open space inside only about
                    fifty feet square. The ditch, which entirely surrounded the fort, except at the two entrances, was
                    roughly five feet deep and ten feet wide at the ground level. With the shape and orientation of the
                    fort determined, we were then in a better position to look for remains of the settlement itself.
                    Exploration within a reasonable distance of the fort has  thus
                    far failed to uncover any remains which indicate the presence of habitations, although we have run
                    some 4100 feet of test trenches. Either the remains were too superficial to have survived through
                    the years, or we have not yet explored the proper area.
        The final step in the study of the fort, and one that was carried out primarily for interpretive
                    purposes, was its complete excavation and reconstruction. Fairly authentic reconstruction was
                    possible because the exact shape of the ditch, as originally dug when the fort was built, could be
                    determined. First of all the entire area within the ditch line was carefully excavated, revealing
                    important information concerning the fort's construction and providing objects of the
                    period. The earth that had accumulated in the fort ditch through the years was then removed and
                    thrown up to form a parapet, much as the colonists had done in 1585.
        The earlier identification of the fort from its peculiar outline was substantiated by discovery of
                    several objects definitely of the period of the fort's construction. In addition to
                    information about the fort, the excavations provided other facts of interest and value. For example,
                    it was determined that the sand dunes lying between the fort and the shore of the sound had been
                    deposited since the fort was built. This helps materially in explaining the fort's
                    apparent unmilitary position behind a ridge which would have furnished perfect protection for any
                    enemy landing party. Information of this type, as well as the fort's reconstruction,
                    required extremely painstaking excavating and interpretation of the archeological evidence. The net
                    results include an informative and dramatic field exhibit and much new information concerning the
                    first English settlement in America.
        You are probably more interested in some of the practical problems encountered in a project of this
                    type than in the results, interesting as they are. I would say that this was a small sized project,
                    as far as work of this type goes. Even so, it represents an investment that would be out of reach of
                    many local history groups.

        The work, including the test trenching search for the area of habitation, was carried on during three
                    field seasons, each lasting from two to three months. Exclusive of the work of final shaping and
                    stabilizing the reconstructed fort  and the test trenching
                    outside the fort site, some 420 man-days of labor were used in the archeological explorations at the
                    fort site itself. Added to this was the cost of technical archeological supervision and necessary
                    supplies.
        We found that a crew of from six to eight men could be worked to best advantage on a project of this
                    nature. During the later stages of excavating, when considerable dirt had to be moved to shape up
                    the parapets, the crew was increased to around ten men.
        Now let us face the real problem of how a local history group can, and should, go about a project of
                    this sort. The problem, in fact, may be even more critical when the project is a small one, for it
                    is often more difficult to get a small job done than a large one. It is neither easy to raise funds
                    for a small project, nor to secure competent supervision, both of which are primary essentials for
                    any excavation. Many local history projects, important as they are in themselves, are not of a
                    nature that their sponsors can tap the resources of large research institutions, the Federal
                    government, or philanthropically inclined individuals.
        I could spend an hour admonishing you not to try to do the job without the services of a trained
                    archeologist. Even if I were to launch upon such a discourse, you could not accuse me of trying to
                    keep the plums for the profession, for there are many more projects waiting to be done than there
                    are archeologists to do them. The practical difficulty lies in the fact that the archeological
                    profession is not like architecture and most other technical professions from which you can secure
                    specified technical services no matter how large or how small your needs may be. I doubt if even the
                    classified directory for 
            New York City
           carries a listing for "Archeologists."

        Another, and even more serious problem, is that there are relatively few archeologists with
                    experience in this sort of work, and essentially none who have had the specialized academic training
                    that would give them the necessary background. Most archeological students in this country do their
                    academic work in the general field of anthropology, having a course or so in archeological methods
                    and various courses on prehistoric cultures. Others receive highly specialized  training in the Oriental and Classical fields, but none have academic
                    training which qualifies them to excavate and interpret an early nineteenth century frontier
                    settlement, a Revolutionary War earthwork, a Colonial house site, or a seventeenth century Jesuit
                    mission site.
        Obviously, some means must be found for training enough men in the field of historic site archeology
                    to meet the growing demand for this type of research. There will be no candidates for these college
                    courses, however, until there are year-around positions available. But this is a broader problem
                    than the one we started out to discuss, and you are not necessarily concerned as individuals. As a
                    group, however, it is something that the American Association for State and Local History should
                    concern itself with.
        Confronted with this despairing picture, what is your course when you have an excavating project to
                    get done? Again, I am taking for granted that you have decided where you are going and
                    why you are going there, and that you have come to the conclusion, improperly or not, that your
                    problem calls for some archeology.
        Possibly this discussion will be more valuable if we use a hypothetical example, and let us take for
                    this purpose a traditional site of an old pottery kiln.
        You have, we will say, decided that, since pottery making has long been a key industry in your
                    community, it would be well to learn all you can about the presumably earliest factory, and to
                    develop the site, if feasible, as a supplement to related exhibits in your local historical museum.
        First of all you will need some money. If I knew something about your project, I could tell you
                    approximately how much money you would need, but I am not sufficiently clairvoyant to tell you where
                    you can get it. But the first step, even before you consider the cost of excavating and development,
                    is to gather together all available information you possibly can concerning the site, and then
                    systematically assemble the data into a comprehensive report. This material should include not only
                    that dealing with We physical history of the factory, but also information concerning the operation
                    itself; the people who operated it; the products made there; how they were made; the workmen who
                    made them; disposition of the products; and other pertinent data.
        
        Compilation of this material will be needed in planning your archeological program; in fact, it is a
                    requisite to making your initial decision as to whether an archeological program should be
                    considered. The really important use of this compilation of documentary material will come during
                    the excavating and the interpretation of the archeological finds.
        Experience has shown that you will seldom, if ever, have the necessary information already assembled,
                    although you may have some fine studies and publications having to do with the site under
                    consideration. No single study is likely, however, to be sufficiently broad in its approach to meet
                    the present needs.
        This task of assembling and coordinating pertinent documentary material can often be carried out by
                    members of your local society, either as a joint project, with competent historical editing, or by
                    an individual, if one can be found with the time, interest, and ability. Do not leave this
                    documentary study for the archeologist to do. He, and you too, will be anxious to get at the
                    digging, and he will be too busy then to do any library research. Besides, you must have this
                    historical study at hand as a basis for planning the archeologist's project.
        The next step is to secure some good professional advice. If there is any one time in your entire
                    project when you need good, sound, experienced advice, now is that time. This advice should cost you
                    nothing, except possible disillusionment and exasperation. The counsel you are looking for at this
                    point is not how to excavate—that will come later; but you need to know the answers to
                    some fundamental questions: Is the idea of excavating the site feasible? How much will it
                    cost? How should the project be organized? How can it be
                    accomplished? Your state archeologist, if you have one, might well be the first person to
                    see, or there may be a qualified archeologist in your community or in a nearby university. But, by
                    all means, get the best possible professional help at this point.

        As to the expense of excavating, the two major costs are technical supervision and labor. Local
                    societies often ask if it is not possible to offset the high labor costs by voluntary help from
                    members of the society. Of course this is feasible under some circumstances, if your members are  willing to work. Excavating is no picnic, and it is usually not
                    practicable to carry on a project as a week-end activity. Students can often be employed during the
                    summer at nominal cost, which is preferable to hit-and-miss voluntary labor. And never, of course,
                    underestimate the ability of women in this respect.
        But no matter how successful you are in securing voluntary labor, I advise that you plan, if at all
                    possible, on providing a basic crew of hired laborers, say a minimum of two, to do the heavier work,
                    such as wheeling dirt. Also, be sure to save back enough money in your account to take care of
                    backfilling and final clean-up, because archeology suddenly becomes very tedious and tiresome when
                    there is nothing left but backfilling.
        There are other ways in which you can put local volunteers to work advantageously. Draftsmen and
                    engineers can help in mapping the site and setting the reference stakes, both of which should be
                    completed before the excavating begins. They can also help in recording finds, preparing measured
                    drawings of structural remains, and making photos and drawings for the final report. The cleaning
                    and cataloguing of excavated objects can be done by society members, and with a minimum of
                    supervision.
        Equipment needs are not great, and for a relatively small job they can usually be met within the
                    community. A few supplies may have to be purchased, such as photographic film, paper sacks, special
                    preservatives, and possibly certain specialized tools. Then there will be the cost of photographic
                    processing, and other incidentals. All told, these expenses can be kept relatively low without
                    jeopardizing the results of the work.
        Your most difficult problem will probably be the securing of a competent supervisor. You occasionally
                    hear of a baby being born in a taxi cab, but at least the mother presumably is headed for the
                    hospital. Emergencies also arise in our field, although rarely, when an inexperienced layman has, so
                    to speak, to deliver the archeological baby; but, as with childbirth, these matters can best be put
                    in the hands of a trained and experienced specialist.

        It is easy to say, "Hire a specialist." But, as I indicated earlier, this is seldom
                    possible on a small project that will  last only a few weeks, and
                    for which funds are often limited. If the work can be done during the summer, you can usually employ
                    a graduate student, but he will probably lack both the training and experience desired for the job.
                    It is not just knowing the fundamental field techniques that is important, but the supervisor should
                    preferably have had some experience with basic historical research and a knowledge of the cultural
                    remains likely to be encountered in the course of the excavating.

        If the project is primarily that of uncovering remains of a building for purposes of reconstruction,
                    then I am rather of the opinion you might do better with an architectural student than an
                    inexperienced archeological student. He would not know the tricks of archeology, but he would at
                    least know something about the things he would uncover. The important thing is, no matter whom you
                    get for this job, make certain that he can give full time supervision to the work. An alert,
                    intelligent person can learn quickly, but he cannot learn how to excavate from behind an office
                    desk; nor can even the most experienced man properly direct an excavation in
                    absentia.
        
        The technical supervisor's responsibility does not end with the backfilling of the last
                    trench; nor does yours as the sponsoring agency. The excavated objects must be cleaned and
                    catalogued and field notes and drawings have to be put in shape as part of the permanent record.
                    Then there is the final responsibility of a good report. This may necessitate further library
                    research or work with museum collections. It is best to allow a minimum of three months post-season
                    work on the part of the archeologist for every month of field work, and a safer estimate would be
                    six months.

        Now, if you are determined to do your digging and cannot employ a fully qualified archeologist for
                    the immediate supervision, then you should make sure that you can fall back on an experienced
                    archeologist for periodic consultation. He should be available for preliminary discussion with the
                    full time supervisor and with members of the society for working out the details of the excavating,
                    recording, laboratory processing, preservation and stabilization of structural remains, preparation
                    of reports, and other procedures. He should be consulted occasionally as the work progresses,
                    preferably at  the site. But if that is not practicable, the
                    supervisor can load up his field records and go to the consultant for a conference. Almost any
                    responsible archeologist, if he is not away on an expedition of his own, would be willing to
                    contribute this much, and even more, to a local project.

        In a nutshell, then, this is what you should plan for if you decide within your local society that
                    you would like to embark on an archeological project at an historic site: 
            (1) Assemble all readily available documentary data relating to the site and prepare a
                            well-organized report.
            (2) Consult a reliable, experienced archeologist, who can tell you how much the project
                            will cost and how to go about getting it done.
            (3) Based upon this advice, coupled with good, practical common sense on your own part,
                            secure necessary funds and set up your project. Funds should be sufficient to provide full
                            time technical supervision, adequate recordation, good photographs, laboratory processing
                            and adequate storage of artifacts and records, care of exposed remains, backfilling and
                            clean-up, and the preparation of a final report. These are "musts." You
                            should also have enough money to hire a small labor crew, even if volunteer help is
                            available.
            (4) Now go ahead and do the job as thoroughly and scientifically and scholarly as you
                            possibly can. Lean heavily on advice and consultation from men with the widest experience in
                            this field. Plan the job so that there is the least possible chance of having to terminate
                            it before it is finished; and it is not finished until the artifacts and exposed remains are
                            taken care of and the final report is written.
          
        

        Archeology, when properly done, can contribute a great deal to local history. It is of particular
                    value in securing knowledge about specific sites, whether the objective is restoration or simply
                    learning more about the physical history and appearance of the site, and about the people who lived
                    or worked there and the things they had and used. But archeology is not just digging, nor is it
                    simply a means of  acquiring museum objects; it is a useful
                    historical tool. It has come to have a very definite place in historical research, but its use as an
                    adjunct to American history is relatively new and it has a long way to go before it can be fully and
                    adequately utilized.
        This does not mean, however, that we must hold up on this type of research. We are bound to lose some
                    data from improper digging and through lack of adequately trained men, but if we recognize the
                    hazards and do all we can to meet them as soundly and competently as possible, then this new
                    historical tool will become increasingly valuable to the students of local history.
        The following books will be found helpful in developing field methods: R. J. C. Atkinson, Field Archaeology (Methuen & Co., Ltd., 
            London
          , 1946); William L. Calver and Reginald P. Bolton, History Written with
                        Pick and Shovel (
            New York
           Historical Society, 
            New York
          , 1950); Robert F. Heizer, A Manual of Archaeological Field Methods
                    (National Press, Millbrae, 
            California
          , 1950); National Research Council, Guide Leaflet for Amateur
                        Archaeologists (Reprint and Circular Series No. 93, 
            Washington
          , D.C., 1930); Clark Wissler, State and Local Archaeological Surveys;
                        Suggestions in Method and Technique (
            Iowa
           State Historical Society, 
            Iowa City
          , 1923).
      
      
      
        Daniel W. Voorhees
        Any one having letters, journals, diaries, etc. on Voorhees, please contact
        Forrest L. Seal Department of Speech DePauw University 
            Greencastle
          , Indiana
      
      
        Martin County, Indiana
        Harry Q. Holt of Shoals, Indiana, has just published a History of Martin County,
                        Indiana. This is the first history of the county which has been published. Orders for this
                    work should be addressed to
        County Historical Compilation Committee
        P. O. Box 127
        Shoals, Indiana
      
      
        Indiana Historical Bureau Report
        The Biennial Report of the Indiana Historical Bureau covering the period from July 1950 to July 1952
                    is now available. Anyone interested in a copy of this report may have the same free of charge by
                    writing to the
        Indiana Historical Bureau
        State Library and Historical Building
        
          
            Indianapolis
           4, Indiana
      
      
      
        Documents
        Caleb Mills and the Indiana Free School Law
        
          Val Nolan Jr.*
        

        Historians have long assigned to Caleb Mills the leading role in Indiana's free school
                    movement of the middle 1800's, a movement that culminated over one hundred years ago in the
                    passage of the state's first truly systematic free school law.1
                    Mills' most enduring claim to generalship in the victory lies in his six
                    widely-read "Educational Messages" written under the nom de plume
                    "One of the People."2 Why he preferred to conceal his
                    identity, and how and when his secret eventually became public are facts not revealed in the rather
                    meager biographical materials.3 A recently discovered letter4 from Mills to John Barron Niles is interesting therefore, both because in it Mills divulges
                    his identity as "One of the People" and because it reveals how thoroughly Mills
                    was a fighter and not simply a philosopher of the revolution. A brief narrative will place the
                    letter in its setting.
        Despite the truly memorable educational article in its Constitution of 1816,5
                    Indiana approached mid-nineteenth century with its ideal of free popular education still a lofty
                    concept rather than a reality. Most common schools, where 
            
              * Val Nolan Jr. is an associate professor at the Indiana
                            University School of Law, Bloomington, Indiana.
            
              1 Mills was only one, of course, of a group promoting the adoption of
                            a better school system. Fassett A. Cotton in his Education in Indiana
                            (Bluffton, Indiana, 1934), 44, holds that Robert Dale Owen was "largely
                            responsible" for Indiana's eventual improvement. Logan Esarey, History
                                of Indiana (2d ed.; 2 vols., Indianapolis, 1918), II, 681-714, gives a
                            brief account of the progress of the free school movement and mentions other men prominent
                            in the campaign. The best survey of early legislative efforts to give Indiana a school
                            system is to be found in Richard C. Boone, History of Education in Indiana
                            (New York, 1892), chapters III and IV.
            
              2 The messages, written over a period of years and printed as pamphlets
                            or in Indianapolis newspapers, are readily accessible today only in Charles W. Moores,
                            "Caleb Mills and the Indiana School System," Indiana Historical Society
                                Publications (Indianapolis, 1895- ), III (1905),
                            363-638.
            
              3 The best sources on the life of Mills are Moores; George I. Reed,
                                Encyclopedia of Biography of Indiana (2 vols., Chicago,
                            1895-1899), I, 280; A Biographical History of Eminent and
                                Self-Made Men of the State of Indiana (2 vols., Cincinnati, 1880), II,
                            District 8, p. 36.
            
              4 This letter is part of a collection of John B. Niles'
                            papers deposited in the Indiana University Library.
            
              5 Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in
                            Indiana (3 vols., Indianapolis, 1916-1930), I, 112-15.
          
           they existed at all, were locally maintained and therefore
                    cheaply administered and poorly taught, their doors open for brief periods each year only to those
                    who could afford and were willing to pay tuition.6 County seminaries, on their
                    level, were no better;7 and Indiana University reached only a few.8 Private academies9 and colleges10 brightened a
                    little the gloom of the state's educational picture (some were good, and the mere existence
                    of private schools indicated considerable interest in education) ; but they were not, of course,
                    free. The harvest of such apathetic cultivation is not surprising. The 1840 census revealed that one
                    of seven of Indiana's 
            
              6 The completely inadequate physical conditions under which most
                            common school education was conducted are described in the "First Annual Report of
                            the Superintendent of Public Instruction," Indiana Documentary
                            Journal, 1853, Part II, pp. 247-320, especially pages 297- 99. See
                            also, Esarey, History of Indiana, II, 681-714. A committee
                            appointed by the Common School Convention held at Indianapolis, May 25- 28, 1846,
                            prepared "An Address in Relation to Free Common Schools" in which it
                            pointed out that only 129,500 Indiana children, 37 per cent of those of school age, were
                            attending common schools and added "Then again it will be remembered that those who
                            attend school at all, generally do it only for a small part of the year." Indiana Documentary Journal, 1847, Part II, 161ff. The convention
                            recommended as a reform measure that every district school in the state be open at least
                            three months per year. Ibid., 146.
            
              7 Discussion of the county seminaries may be found in Boone, History of Education in Indiana, chapter V, and throughout Mills'
                            "Educational Messages." Of the seminaries, Esarey concludes:
                            "There was no uniformity in the management, course of study, length of term, method
                            of instruction, textbooks, or any other material consideration connected with these
                            seminaries. Like the common schools, while most of the seminaries were of no value, some
                            rendered long and meritorious service to the community. Lack of funds, dishonest trustees
                            and factional quarrels make up the burden of their history." History
                                of Indiana, I, 333-34.
            
              8 Theophilus A. Wylie, Indiana University, Its History
                                from 1820, when founded, to 1890 (Indianapolis, 1890), stated that the enrollment
                            was 64 students in 1840, 115 in 1843. Records of enrollment and class attendance in the
                            Office of Records and Admissions, Indiana University show the 1845 enrollment as 104, that
                            of 1846 as 115. There was some disagreement in the Constitutional Convention of
                            1850-1851 as to the enrollment of the University. Report of the Debates
                                and Proceedings if the Convention for the Revision of the Constitution of the State of
                                Indiana 1850 (2 vols., Indianapolis, 1850), II, 1864.
            
              9 These institutions are named and discussed in Boone, History of Education in Indiana, chapters VI and VII.
            
              10 Private colleges in Indiana prior to 1850, the dates of their
                            foundations, and the religious sects that controlled them were: Hanover, 1827, Presbyterian;
                            Wabash, 1832, "Christian in spirit" but non- denominational;
                            Franklin, 1834, Baptist; Earlham, 1837, Quaker; Asbury (DePauw), 1837, Methodist; Concordia,
                            1839, German Evangelical Lutheran; St. Mary of the Woods, 1840, Catholic; University of
                            Notre Dame, 1844, Catholic; and Taylor University, 1846, Methodist. The histories of these
                            institutions are briefly reviewed in Cotton, Education in Indiana, chapter
                            IV-VI.
          
           adults could not read or write, and its illiteracy rate exceeded
                    that of all northern and of three slave states.11
        

        "Among all those who saw the calamitous ignorance of the people and were ambitious of better
                    things for the State ... was one whose contributions to the question were sufficiently
                    definite and sound to be recognized as the chief factor in its solution."12 On the day following the opening of the 1846 session of the General Assembly, The Indiana State Journal carried "An Address to the Legislature" over
                    the signature "One of the People."13 The writer pointed to
                    Indiana's lamentable inadequacy in the vital field of education, then passed to concrete
                    consideration of particular evils and of remedies. Public funds at that time devoted to schools came
                    largely from the federal land grant of one section in each congressional township.14 The money derived from these sections was not consolidated and then distributed equally
                    throughout the state; instead each township kept whatever it could realize from its own section.
                    Thus the very commu- nities that most needed public assistance and could least af- ford to support
                    schools from local funds, i.e., communities where land values were low and farms
                    poor, in fact received the least help from the land donation; prosperous townships got the highest
                    incomes from their more valuable lands. Such inefficient use of the funds must be rectified, said
                    the Address, by equal state-wide distribution. Furthermore and even more significant, the
                    really basic support for free schools must be raised by taxation. Finally, only if higher schools
                    improve will well-trained teachers be available; therefore let the county seminaries and the
                    state university be reorganized. Sell all the physical facilities of the seminaries and of the uni-
                    versity; distribute the interest on the proceeds to one private 
            
              11
              Sixth Census of the United States, 1840, pp. 373-74, 475. Of a
                            total population of 685,866 (678,698 whites), illiterate whites over 20 years of age
                            numbered 38,100. For the most readily accessible table of illiteracy statistics for 1840
                            (taken from Caleb Mills' statistics, themselves derived from the census), see
                            Boone, History of Education in Indiana, 88.
            
              12 Boone, History of Education in Indiana, 91.
            
              13
              Indiana State Journal, December 8, 1846, reprinted in Moores,
                            "Caleb Mills," Indiana Historical Society Publications,
                            III, 397.
            
              14 The composition of the school fund in 1852 is discussed by Esarey,
                                History of Indiana, II, 694. A detailed analysis of the fund, with a
                            history of its component parts, is presented in Boone, History of Education in
                                Indiana, chapter XIII-XVI.
          
           seminary in each county and to every college whose governors
                    will agree to maintain certain stipulated standards, to train teachers, and to devote the money
                    received to provide prospective teachers with free tuition.

        Eight days after the address appeared, Governor James Whitcomb in his annual message to the
                    legislature urged that body to revise the entire school system and place it under the charge of a
                    state superintendent.15 The General Assembly passed no such statute, but it
                    indicated its interest by adopting a joint resolution calling upon the friends of education in
                    Indiana to meet at Indianapolis in a convention to consider the school problem.16
        
        Mills' second address,17 to the 1847 legislature, expanded upon many of
                    the points already made, called taxation a necessity not only as a money raising device but also as
                    the most effective way to insure public interest in education, and explored problems of requisite
                    buildings, adequate salaries for teachers, books, and integrated school superintendence. Probably at
                    least partly in response to the messages,18 the General Assembly ordered a
                    referendum to determine the public will on a free school bill introduced at the session;19
          
            
              15
              Indiana Documentary Journal, 1846, Part I, 83, 91-92.
            
              16
              Indiana House Journal, 1846, p. 387; Indiana Senate
                            Journal, 1846, pp. 360, 387. The work of the convention that met on May 25, 1847, and
                            of subsequent meetings of that body, is discussed in Boone, History of
                                Education in Indiana, chapter VIII; Esarey, History of Indiana,
                            II, 683ff.
            
              17 Printed as a pamphlet "Read, Circulate and Discuss. An
                            Address to The Legislature of Indiana," and distributed to legislators on December
                            6, 1847. Reprinted in Moores, "Caleb Mills," Indiana Historical Society
                                Publications, III, 429.
            
              18
              Ibid., 388. It would be well here to call attention again to the fact that
                            Mills was only one of many influential men who were active in championing the school
                            movement. For example the Common School Convention was attended by many men with a deep and
                            effective interest in education. Among its committees was one which, working with a
                            committee of the General Assembly, drafted a school bill for submission to the legislature.
                            The Common School Convention met on December 10, 1847, to review the report of this drafting
                            committee. This report may be found in the Indiana Documentary Journal,
                            1847, Part II, 145. The report of the committee of the legislature is on page 355.
                            Simultaneously, another group from the Common School Convention prepared a public appeal for
                            support for the free school movement, see page 161.
            
              19 This is the bill whose origin is discussed in footnote 18. It
                            passed the House of Representatives but was amended by the Senate to call for a referendum
                            to determine the public will concerning its passage; the Senate proposed this delay because
                            it felt it had insufficient time to consider the bill. Laws of Indiana,
                            General, 1847-1848, pp. 48-49; Indiana House Journal,
                            1847, pp. 243, 250, 304, 310, 440-42, 452, 634, 652, 665, 680; Indiana
                                Senate Journal, 1847, pp. 507, 528, 553, 574, 575, 655; Esarey, History of Indiana, II, 687-88.
          
           the referendum vote was in favor of the bill.20 The third address21 analyzed this vote by counties, pointing to the
                    close correlation between a county's high illiteracy rate and its hostility to the bill.
                    The 1848 legislature to which the third message was addressed passed a new school law22 adopting taxation as a means of support of common schools and equalizing the periods of
                    instruction in all schools in each congressional township. But this step forward was largely
                    vitiated by a local option provision whereby each county could decide for itself whether to operate
                    under the new system. The act also failed to consolidate the school funds and to require equal
                    distribution. The fourth address23 was therefore a criticism of this statute,
                    which had meanwhile been rejected by twenty-nine counties.24
        
        "One of the People" directed his fifth appeal, in the form of four letters in The Indiana Statesman,25 to the men who assembled in
                    Indianapolis in October, 1850, to draft a new constitution for the state. Like so many in his time
                    and since, he sought to incorporate the details of the particular project close to his heart in the
                    fundamental law of the state, where it would be relatively secure from future legislative tampering.
                    The only real novelty of this address, which reiterated all the familiar arguments, was a proposal
                    to divide the permanent public education money into three parts, the 
            
              20 Fifty-nine counties favored free schools,
                            thirty-one opposed. Of 140,410 votes cast, 78,523 favored, 61,887 opposed. See
                            Mills' analysis in Moores, "Caleb Mills," Indiana Historical
                            Society Publications, III, 501 ff. A county by county analysis is
                            presented in Boone, History of Education in Indiana, 106-8.
            
              21 Part of this address appeared in the Indiana State
                                Journal, December 11, 1848; the entire address appeared as a pamphlet dated 1849.
                            It is reprinted in Moores, "Caleb Mills," Indiana Historical Society Publications, III, 501.
            
              22
              Laws of Indiana, General, 1848-1849, pp. 124-31.
            
              23
              Indiana State Journal, January 7, 1850, reprinted in Moores,
                            "Caleb Mills," Indiana Historical Society Publications,
                            III, 537.
            
              24 In 1849 the counties voted on the question of operating under the
                            law; sixty-one accepted and twenty-nine rejected it. "Report of the
                            Superintendent of Common Schools," Indiana Documentary Journal,
                            1849, Part II, 235, 248. The vote is analyzed in detail by Mills. Moores, "Caleb
                            Mills," Indiana Historical Society Publications, III, 537-43. See
                            also, Boone, History of Education in Indiana, 124-28.
            
              25 The four letters, only the last of which bore any signature, were
                            addressed to "Gentlemen of the Constitutional Convention." They appeared
                            in the issues of November 6, 13, 20, and December 4, 1850. They are reprinted in Moores,
                            "Caleb Mills," Indiana Historical Society Publications,
                            III, 550ff.
          
           Common School, the Literature, and the University Funds. The
                    interest from the Literature Fund was, in addition to being used to subsidize private academies, to
                    be spent to establish and increase common school libraries, a recently recognized instrument of
                    public instruction.

        It was after his fifth address that Mills wrote Niles and revealed himself as "One of the
                    People." How the Wabash College professor and the influential lawyer delegate had become
                    acquainted can be conjectured: Mills graduated from Dartmounth College in 1828, Niles in 1830.
                    Mills' reference to "scenes of bygone years" has just that touch of
                    nostalgia which supports the inference of an undergraduate acquaintanceship. Obviously Mills
                    expected sympathy from the well- educated Niles, himself a former teacher of chemistry in
                    the medical department of the Indiana Medical College of La Porte.26
        
        
          
            
              
                
                  
                    John B. Niles Esq.,
                    (Constitutional Convention)
                    Indianapolis, Ind.
                    [Postmark Crawfordsville, Dec. 10.]
                    Wabash College
                  
                  Dec. 7, 1850
                
                John B. Niles Esq.
                My Dear Sir:

                You may perhaps be surprised to receive a letter from me. It would be pleasant to sit
                                    down and chat over scenes of bygone years, but we revolve in such different orbits
                                    that it is utterly impossible to calculate when two such bodies will be in
                                    conjunction. Were it certain that the convention would not complete their labors by
                                    Christmas & that the portion of the constitution pertaining to Education
                                    would not be disposed of before that time, I think I should confer upon myself the
                                    honor of a lobby membership for a few days. But I presume that period would be too
                                    late for the accomplishment of the principle object of such a visit and therefore I
                                    will venture to propos a conference on the subject of constitutional provision for
                                    popular Education. I presume you feel a deep interest in this subject & are
                                    prepared to favor any plan that bids fair to accomplish the object in the most
                                    effectual manner. There is a strong disposition among timid polititions &
                                    demagogues to skim along the surface and ask what will be popular, disregarding
                                    whatever is essential to their success, providing it is not grateful to the more
                                    ignorant or selfish of the dear people. Presuming that you do not sympathize with
                                    such & are willing & desirous to embody in the fundamental law of
                                    the commonwealth educational provisions of 
                    
                      26 For a brief sketch of Niles' life, see A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men of
                                                the State of Indiana, II, District 13, p. 36.
                  
                   an enlightened and liberal character, I will
                                    proceed to communicate to you what I wish to be considered a secrete, vis, that the Educational Addresses to the Legislature, under the
                                    signature of One of the people, for the last four years, and the
                                        fifth published in the Indiana Statesman, addressed to the
                                    Constitutional Convention came from me. They have been extensively circulated and
                                    read, & have done something to awaken & increase the interest in
                                    fact in popular education. I presume you have read the one addressed to the Body, of
                                    which you are a member. I flatter myself that the plan suggested in that address,
                                    will commend itself to your favorable regard, and if so, I wish you would give it
                                    the benefit of your influence and support when the subject of Education comes up for
                                    discussion. Now is the time to strike, and in the right spot. Can you not make a great speech on the subject and show shallow heads that academies
                                    and colleges are as indispensable to a good educational system as common schools?
                                    Show them that these higher institutions are the intellectual reservoir from which
                                    proceed the controlling influences of society. Whence proceed inventions and
                                    improvements in every department of human industry, but from awakened, cultivated
                                    intellects? Will you carefully read the several nos. if you have not already done it
                                    & suggest any difficulties & modifications & thus give me an
                                    opportunity to explain, obviate & demonstrate the soundness & wisdom
                                    of the scheme. No one, who has seen the operation of free schools
                                    in New England, will question for a moment, the wisdom, nay, the necessity of a
                                    partial support at least by taxation, & the undesirableness of a fund so
                                    large as to superseed the necessity of taxation. This point being established, where
                                    is the necessity of a public fund larger than I have shown we should have from the
                                    three sources indicated. Let the Literature fund derived from the fines &
                                    forfeitures, bank tax & saline funds be consolidated & appropriated
                                    for the encouragement of academics, common school libraries & apparatus. New
                                    York has appropriated $90,000 annually & for a series of years on
                                    the plan suggested securing the raising an equal sum by the recipiants of the grant.
                                    The fine and forfeiture funds, bank tax and saline funds would go but a little way
                                    in sustaining the common schools of the state, not amounting to 25 cents per head on
                                    all the children in the state; but for the purpos proposed, they would be
                                    sufficient, abundantly sufficient to secure a library of 150 or 200 vols such as you
                                    will see in the state library room, to every school district in the state. What a
                                    glorious point gained to secure such a result. Such a library would educate parents
                                    as well as children prove of untold value to every neighborhood. I hope you will
                                    both take hold of it yourself and endeavor to enlist others in its support. I have
                                    urged Jernigan to do what he can with the members of his acquaintance and hope you
                                    will stand up and support the Educational Committee should they propose it. Could
                                    you not get a dozen of your most intelligent & influential members to unite
                                    & push it thro' with a rush. In respect to the University plan, I
                                    see no objection at all. The funds are all in the possession & under the sole & exclusive control of the State on my plan. It
                                    proposes to alienate not a dollar but to make every dollar tell on cultivated mind.
                                    It proposes nothing but what is just, liberal & wise. You can see at a
                                    glance that the influence of its operation would be most happy & efficient.
                                    It would do more to expose imposition & elevate  the standard of collegiate education than anything that
                                    could be done. The adoption of the plan suggested in its threefold division would
                                    both bless & honor us as a state. The facts & statistics embodied in
                                    that address & its predecessors, would furnish you with unanswerable
                                    arguments. I will send you a copy of the second & third for perusal. I
                                    should rejoice to see that plan, or something substantially like it, incorporated
                                    into the organic law of the state. Let me hear from you at an early date &
                                    know the result of your recruiting service. Could you not return by this place
                                    & spend a day with us? Yours truly
                
                  Caleb Mills
                
                P.S. Let this all be "sub rosa."
              
            
          
        

        While Niles may have given his silent support, or may have subscribed to Mills' views but
                    not thought the matter one to be embodied in detail in a constitution, certain it is that he never
                    made a "great address." Nor was the article reported by the committee on education
                    and passed after amendment27 by the convention in any sense an embodiment of
                    Mills' plan. True, the new constitution called for "a general and uniform system
                    of Common Schools, wherein tuition shall be without charge, and equally open to all";28 a perpetual Common School fund was established and the office of
                    Superintendent of Public Instruction created. But county seminaries were abolished.29 with no attempt to find a substitute in private institutions, and Indiana University was
                    left unscathed.30 All details of the school system to be effected under the new
                    government were left to the legislature.
        
          
            27 Principal amendments were the rejection of sections of the article
                        reported by the committee on education calling for establishment of a Normal School in the State
                        University and for a tax on corporate dividends in excess of six per cent, to be used for the
                        commons schools. Debates and Proceedings of the Convention, II, 1078ff, 1862,
                        1869-70. The committee on education through its chairman John I. Morrison reported as an
                        additional section to its original article on education one providing for the office of
                        Superintendent of Public Instruction. The section was adopted. Ibid.,
                        1058-61. The most serious debates in the convention, relating to the article on
                        education, concerned various attempts to abolish, or to make it possible for the legislature to
                        abolish, support for Indiana University. See note 30.
          
            28 Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I,
                        346-49.
          
            29
            Ibid. Section 2 provides simply that the funds derived from sales of the
                        seminaries and their lands, and money and property heretofore held for them, be made part of the
                        Common School Fund. The convention intended to abolish seminaries. Debates and
                            Proceedings of the Convention, II, 1867-68, 2044. In Edwards
                        v. Jagers, 19 Indiana, 407 (1862), the Indiana Supreme Court
                        held the Indiana constitutional provision directing sale of the land and buildings of the
                        Switzerland County seminary void because it violated the contract clause of the United States
                        Constitution.
          
            30 The status of Indiana University was the subject of perhaps the most
                        vigorous debates on education of the entire convention. Some
        
        
        To the 1851 General Assembly, then, Mills directed his last appeal,31 calling
                    attention to the peculiar significance any law passed at this time must have as a sort of
                    interpretation of the spirit of the new constitution.32 Buttressing his call for
                    immediate action by presenting even more depressing data from the recent 1850 census,33 Mills asked for a law embodying those details of his plan which were still permissible
                    under the new constitution. Fundamentally, the statute must provide three essentials; freedom,
                    competence, and supervision.

        The legislature's response must have been gratifying, for the comprehensive School Law of
                        185234 was a long step in the march to organize in the state a system of
                    uniform public-supported schools. A taxing provision contained no such escape clause as
                    ruined the 1849 act; and school funds were to be consolidated and equally distributed.
                    Administrative organization too was revamped; the congressional township was abolished as an
                    administrative unit and local control of schools given to civil townships, under the super- vision
                    of a state Board of Education presided over by the Superintendent of Public Instruction. Other
                    sections of the law taxed for the purpose of establishing township libraries, regulated the
                    examination and licensing of teachers, and 

            members wished to abolish the university and divert the federal funds donated for
                            university purposes to the common school fund. Others wished to make it possible for the
                            legislature to do so. Debates and Proceedings of the Convention, I, 171;
                            II, 1862-67, 1884-93. The university fund was left inviolate by the
                            Constitution as finally adopted. Article 8, Section 7.
            
              31 This address, dated December 10, 1851, was submitted to the
                            legislature as a pamphlet on February 20, 1852. The Senate ordered five thousand copies
                            printed. It is reprinted in Moores, "Caleb Mills," Indiana Historical
                            Society Publications, III, 578.
            
              32 "Your action on this subject will be invested with an
                            influence and importance of a peculiar character, because it will be regarded as the
                            exponent of the views entertained of the educational provisions of the Constitution and will
                            give tone to subsequent legislation." Ibid., 580. Mills is here
                            stating accurately the importance given legislation passed immediately after a
                            constitutional amendment as indicating the basic purposes for which the constitutional
                            provision was adopted. Section 1 of the Civil Rights Act has been used by the United States
                            Supreme Court to throw light on the purposes of the draftsmen of the Fourteenth Amendment.
                            See Buchanan v. Warley, 245 United
                            States, 60, 78 (1917).
            
              33
              Seventh Census of the United States, 1850, pp. 756, 788-89,
                            reveals that 72,710 white adults of Indiana were illiterate in a total population of 988,416
                            (977,154 whites). Only 3,265 of the illiterates were foreign- born.
            
              34
              Revised Statutes of Indiana, 1852, I, chapter 98.
          
           sought to provide for the erection of school buildings. The
                    influence of Mills, or at least the general conformity of the act to many of Mills' most
                    important suggestions, is clearly apparent.

        The fate of the statute in the courts is another and more discouraging story. But despite the fact
                    that Supreme Court decisions35 during the next few years "almost
                    destroyed the school system,"36 legislative tenacity37 and a change of the judicial heart38 eventually gave Indiana a workable
                    school law. In the long war for effective free schools ultimate victory was Caleb Mills'.
        
          
            35 Accounts of judicial treatment of the 1852 and 1855 School Laws are
                        difficult to follow in Boone, History of Education in Indiana, where the
                        subject is nowhere given separate treatment. Esarey, History of Indiana, II,
                        702-714, is somewhat better, but the story will be most readily understood by reference
                        to the leading cases themselves. They are Greencastle Township v. Black, 5 Indiana, 557 (1855); State v. Springfield Township, 6 Indiana, 83 (1854); Quick v. White-Water Township, 7 Indiana,
                        570 (1856); Quick v. Springfield Township, 7 Indiana, 636 (1856); City of Lafayette v. Jenners,
                        10 Indiana, 70 (1857); Adamson v. Auditor,
                        9 Indiana, 174 (1857).
          
            36 Esarey, History of Indiana, II, 709.
          
            37 The attempts by the legislature to remedy the defects which were the
                        bases of adverse judicial decisions and otherwise to adjust the school laws to meet various
                        problems and pressures, are described in ibid., II, 702-714. The tenacity
                        referred to lay in the passage in 1867 of a statute giving local school corporations power to
                        tax to raise tuition, a purpose expressly held unconstitutional in City of
                            Lafayette v. Jenners, 10 Indiana, 70 (1857); Laws of Indiana, 1867, chapter XII.
          
            38
            Robinson v. Schenk, 102 Indiana, 307
                        (1885) discussed "the very few [cases] that follow Greencastle Tp. v. Black,"
                        said the Black case had "long since been overruled insofar as it denies the power of
                        the Legislature to empower school corporations to levy what is called a tuition tax,"
                        and concluded that even if the case had not previously been overruled the court felt it its duty
                        to overrule it now.
        
      
      
      
        Book Reviews
        
          Russia Under Two Tsars, 1682-1689: The Regency of Sophia Alekseevna. By C.
                    Bickford O'Brien, University of 
            California
           Publications in History, Volume 42. (
            Berkeley
           and 
            Los Angeles
          : University of 
            California
           Press, 1952, pp. xiv, 178. Maps, bibliography, and index. $2.50.)
        Tsar Alexis, the second ruler of the Romanov dynasty and the father of Peter the Great, died in 1676.
                    Before his death he had been married twice, to Maria Miloslavskii and to Natalia Naryshkina, both
                    daughters of more or less prominent Russian boyars. These two marriages caused widespread political
                    repercussions in Russia. Before Maria's death her brother, Prince Ivan Miloslavskii, had
                    gained a dominant political influence at court and the names of various Miloslavskii relatives
                    appeared in rosters of high public office. Tsaritsa Maria's death in 1669 caused
                    consternation in the ranks of the Miloslavskiis and Alexis' marriage shortly thereafter
                    to Natalia Naryshkina aroused much resentment, especially after Natalia's favorite,
                    Artemon Matveev, displaced Ivan Miloslavskii as the principal figure at court. Gradually the
                    influence of Matveev and the Naryshkins became pre-eminent-but not for long. Upon Alexis'
                    death in 1676 Feodor, his eldest living son by his first wife, ascended the throne and the
                    Miloslavskiis came back into power. Matveev and the members of his family were immediately exiled.
                    But Feodor was a semi-invalid and it was apparent that he could not live long. The power-hungry
                    Miloslavskiis pinned their hopes on the succession of Feodor's brother, mentally
                    deficient Ivan, the second son of Alexis and Maria Miloslavskii. It was expected that a regency
                    would be needed for the incompetent Ivan, and who would be a more likely regent than Uncle Ivan
                    Miloslavskii. But the Naryshkins also had a candidate for the throne—Peter, the healthy
                    young son of Alexis and Natalia Naryshkina, who had not yet reached his teens. Obviously he, too,
                    would need a regent and who would be a more likely candidate than his mother's favorite,
                    Artemon Matveev.

        But the latter prospect was highly distasteful to the twenty-five-year-old third daughter of Alexis
                    and Maria, Tsarevna Sophia Alekseevna, sister of ruling Tsar Feodor.  Vainly she sought to persuade Feodor to name Ivan as his successor;
                    Feodor hesitated and died without naming anyone. Thereupon Patriarch Joachim, who favored the
                    Naryshkins, called upon a rump Zemskii Sobor (National Assembly) to choose a
                    successor to the throne. Although Miloslavskii partisans raised a few cries for Ivan, demands for
                    the more popular Peter arose on all sides and the nine-year-old tsarevich was proclaimed ruler. Six
                    Naryshkins were forthwith advanced to high places at court and Matveev was hastily summoned to
                    Moscow from exile. But Sophia Miloslavskii, though dumbfounded, was not vanquished. At once she
                    launched a campaign to undermine the Naryshkins. Rumors were circulated that Feodor had been
                    poisoned. Liaisons were established with some of the commanders of the Streltsy, the principal
                    military force in Moscow, and her agents ardently sought to incite revolt by forecasting terrible
                    oppressions to come under Peter. A death list of forty-six, including Matveev, many Naryshkins, and
                    their prominent supporters, was prepared of those to be killed by the Streltsy. The goal?
                    To elevate Ivan to the throne by deposing Peter or by arranging a joint rule, with Sophia as regent.
                    On May 15, 1682, word went out that Ivan was dead. The Streltsy at once moved into the Kremlin.
                    "The next few hours saw the beginning of one of Moscow's ugliest blood baths.
                    The pillage and carnage that gripped the city lasted for a week. At least seventy prominent leaders
                    in the new government were literally butchered…." Too late, it was discovered
                    that Ivan still lived, but by that time Sophia had assumed an active political role, and the
                    Naryshkins had been destroyed or vanquished by her Miloslavskii forces. Next, adopting a suggestion
                    made earlier by Sophia, the Streltsy requested that Ivan and Peter rule jointly. The
                    outcome? A new meeting of the rump Zemskii Sobor elevated the two boys
                    jointly to the throne, with actual control of affairs in the hands of Regent Sophia. For seven years
                    and four months, until she was driven from power by Tsar Peter, Sophia tightly held the reins of
                    government.

        Most of Professor O'Brien's volume is an intensive study of this period of
                    Sophia's rule, years which have usually been slighted by most historians on the ground
                    that they were a time of ineffective government and military failures. "Yet,"  the author contends, "casting aside the issue of
                    legitimacy of rule, it is doubtful whether within the imperial family—during this
                    important period—a more capable regent than Sophia could have been found."
                    Professor O'Brien points to the vital changes which affected the cultural outlook,
                    economy, and foreign relations of Russia during Sophia's regency and shows how they were
                    largely the result of her enlightened and decisive leadership and that of her appointees.
                    "In the realm of cultural and diplomatic achievement, the tsarevna proved herself a worthy
                    daughter of Tsar Alexis and a distinguished representative of the Romanov dynasty. At home she
                    introduced reforms that were practical in purpose, if moderate in scope…. In both Europe
                    and Asia she and her advisers intelligently pursued Russian national interests…. It was a
                    government of distinction and promise which held together against great odds. Its policies were both
                    vigorous and enlightened."
        Professor O'Brien has contributed to a fuller knowledge of Russia in the years 1682-1689.
                    With the increased attention given to Russian history in American universities, it is essential that
                    more and more studies of this type be made, for Russian history under the tsars consists not alone
                    of the achievements of the outstanding and better known rulers. The book is clearly and
                    interestingly written, and is provided with copious footnotes and an extensive bibliography of works
                    in the Russian language. All in all, the author is to be congratulated on a work well done.
        Indiana University
        F. Lee Benns
      
      
        
          Howells & 
              Italy
            . By James Leslie Woodress, Jr. (Durham, 
            North Carolina
          : Duke University Press, 1952, pp. xi, 223. Bibliography and index. $3.50.)
        One sometimes wishes that scholars were less specialized. A new book by an associate professor of
                    English at 
            Butler
           University is a case in point.
        William Dean Howells was 
            United States
           consul at Venice from 1861 to 1865. The experience was a determining one in his life.
                    It transformed him from an 
            Ohio
           newspaperman into a 
            Cambridge
           author. It served him in lieu of the 
            Harvard
           education his associates obtained.
        
        
          Howells & 
              Italy
            
           is a literary study of the effect of this stay in 
            Italy
           upon Howells' literary creations. Woodress finds that five-sixths of
                    Howells' novels have some reference to his Italian experiences.
        The first chapter of the book is a resume of the four years which so influenced Howells. Numerous
                    letters he wrote from Venice to friends are cited; so are the references to Venice in the annual
                    reports of the Department of State. But only one of Howells' dispatches to the department
                    is cited.
        Woodress apparently was familiar with the contents of Howells' dispatches, now in the
                    National Archives. But they apparently did not contribute to his literary ends. Thus the book leaves
                    one wishing that one might know something of the official activities of the young consul in Venice.
                    That would have taken little space, since in one year only four American ships called at the port of
                    Venice. But the literary scholar is not interested in political and commercial history, just as most
                    historical scholars would not be interested in the material Woodress has used.
        The 
            Indianapolis
          
          News
        
        Sexson E. Humphreys
      
      
        
          Walter C. Woodward, Friend on the Frontier: A Biography. By Elizabeth H. Emerson
                    with a Preface by Errol T. Elliot. (
            Richmond
          , Indiana: Walter C. Woodward Memorial Commission, 1952, pp. 316. Illustrations and
                    bibliography. $2.00.)
        The subject of this biography is well known to members of the Society of Friends as editor of the American Friend and General Secretary of the Five Year Meeting of Friends; to
                    others he is not so well known, although state and local historians will remember him as the first
                    director of the Indiana Historical Commission, organized in 1915 to direct the celebration of the
                    state centennial in each community and county of the state.
        Walter Woodward was a native Hoosier, born near 
            Mooresville
           of 
            Quaker
           parents in 1878. The family moved to the frontier 
            Quaker
           settlement at Newberg, 
            Oregon

          , when he was two, and there he grew to manhood. The author gives equal space to his
                    preparation of life with its  background of 
            Quaker
           influence at home, in the community, and in the academies and colleges which he
                    attended in 
            Oregon
          , Indiana, and 
            California
          , and to his life work as teacher, editor, and executive secretary. The first period
                    depicts the deep concern of Friends to set up schools for the education of their children, while in
                    the latter period one sees through Woodward's life the entire panorama of 
            Quaker
           activities in the 
            United States
           and abroad.
        The Five Year Meeting of Friends was instituted in 
            Richmond

          , Indiana, in 1887 to bring together representatives of the Yearly Meetings for
                    interchange of ideas and to bind the growing and scattered groups of Quakers into a closer union and
                    thus better preserve the common perspective and observances. The American Friend
                    became the organ of the Five Year Meeting in 1912. By this time Woodward had returned to his native
                    state as professor of history at Earlham College, and it was from this post that he was called in
                    1917 to become General Secretary of the Five Year Meeting and editor of its weekly magazine with
                    headquarters in 
            Richmond

          . He continued to hold these offices until his death in 1942. As secretary he tried to
                    get the mind and spirit of the Yearly Meetings and other Friends' meetings and to present
                    and interpret them to the church as a whole through the pages of the American
                    Friend. He shared with each subscriber his wide acquaintance and friendship with Quakers around
                    the world and the thinking and contributions of the many meetings and conferences he attended. The
                    editor's life was not an easy one; wartime and depression brought many problems; Quakers
                    in 
            Oregon
           and 
            Kansas
           especially rebelled against Woodward's methods and policies. The author
                    quotes extensively from his writings to portray his thinking and manner of meeting crises. A
                    bibliography is included, but there is no index. The volume was prepared under the direction of the
                    Woodward Memorial Commission. Indianans in general as well as Quakers should be grateful to have
                    this biography of a noted Hoosier whose life should be better known.
        Indiana Historical Bureau
        Dorothy Riker
      
      
      
        
          Indiana Scientists: A Biographical Directory and an Analysis. By Stephen Sargent
                    Visher. (
            Indianapolis
          : The Indiana Academy of Science, 1951, pp. viii, 286. Index. $2.50.)
        Very brief sketches of 4,340 scientists make up the major portion of this volume. The persons
                    included are or were born, trained, or employed in Indiana. The information given involves
                    scientific field, place and date of birth, training, employment, and research field. A series of
                    brief articles describe the growth of instruction and research in the various fields in the
                    universities and colleges of the state. Some additional data particularly concerns distinguished
                    scientists. The author's conclusions, which grew out of his research are found in the
                    first chapter of the volume. He stresses the importance of personal encouragement or stimulation
                    being given to young people during the period of their academic study; the presence of opportunity
                    to obtain adequate training; the presence of the opportunity of earning a living; and of favorable
                    biological and cultural background.
        Considerable educational history is to be found in the articles concerned with teaching and research
                    in the colleges and universities.
        Indiana University
        John D. Barnhart
      
      
        
          Down in the Hills o' 
              Brown
             County. By Frank M. Hohenberger. (Privately printed, 1952, pp. 64. Map and
                    illustrations. $1.00.)
        This small booklet gives a brief popular history of 
            Brown
           County, a sketch of the T. C. Steele Memorial, and an account of a trip
                    "Bill" Herschell took around in the county in 1934. Herschell relates how the
                    villages received their names. Among some of the other subjects covered are the Ghost Town,
                    Liars' Bench, churches, covered bridges, 
            Brown
           County State Park, newspapers, schools, 
            Brown
           County Potteries, weaving, and the Indiana Art Colony.
        Hohenberger is an outstanding photographer, and his pictures have won for him an enviable reputation.
                    Being a versatile man, he wrote articles on 
            Brown
           County. His first column appeared in the 
            Indianapolis
          
          Star on June 10, 1923. For thirty years his wholesome philosophy in defense  of his neighbors has been expressed in the columns of the Star.
        
        The illustrations throughout the booklet are exceptionally good. They demonstrate the photographic
                    ability of the author.
      
      
        
          Doctors Under Three Flags. By Fannie Anderson. (
            Detroit
          : 
            Wayne
           University Press, 1951, pp. x, 185. Illustrations, notes, bibliography.
                    $3.50.)
        It is doubtful if anyone is better qualified to write a medical history of the 
            Detroit
           area than Mrs. Anderson, the bibliographer of medical literature at 
            Wayne
           University. A native Detroiter long interested in the history of her city, especially
                    insofar as it concerns the field of medicine, she has written a compact volume of five chapters
                    tracing the medical history of the strait's city from the date of its founding in 1701 to
                    the end of 
            Michigan
          's territorial period in 1837.
        The result of Mrs. Anderson's investigations into the annals of old 
            Detroit
           (fifty-one of the sixty-one items listed in the bibliography of unpublished accounts
                    were from the Burton Historical Collection in the 
            Detroit
           Public Library) is a most imposing and well-documented presentation of little known
                    factual material about the various men who served that post as physicians during the French,
                    British, and early American period. Yet, while admiring Mrs. Anderson's persistent and
                    careful research into all available sources, one must wonder at the importance of a good bit of the
                    material she has seen fit to include in her study. Much of the biographical data is so meager and
                    insignificant that it can serve no purpose for anyone. Take, for example, the statement regarding
                    Dr. William Holmes (p. 81) : "According to the Macomb books he bought a cow for
                    $10 on August 6, 1790, and rented a house from Captain Henry Bird of the Eighth Regiment
                    from August 10, 1790, to June 10, 1792, paying sixty shillings per month." On the other
                    hand, much of the material on the practice of medicine and surgery, the various prescriptions used
                    and fees charged, as well as the biographical material on the life of Dr. George Christian Anthon,
                    is notably good. Where the sources were adequate, Mrs. Anderson has done well.
        
        It is unfortunate that an index was not included in the volume. A biographical index at least would
                    have made the book more valuable to students of genealogy in the 
            Detroit
           area. Factual and typographical errors are few. Three of the latter were noted, while
                    the "John Hay" mentioned on page 41 is more correctly given as
                    "Jehu" Hay on page 73. The eleven illustrations are most appropriate and add
                    considerably to the interest and value of the book.
        
          
            Evansville
           College
        Orville J. Jaebker
      
      
        
          The Early Histories of 
              St. Louis
            . Edited by John F. McDermott. (
            St. Louis
          : 
            St. Louis
           Historical Documents Foundation, 1952, pp. 171. Index, end maps, illustrations.
                    $4.00.)
        This collection of the first historical sketches of the founding and early years of 
            St. Louis
           which are based on the primary sources is made up of selections from the writings of
                    six of her original citizens. Not intended as a history of the city, it's purpose is,
                    instead, to bring 'together under one cover all such accounts for the benefit, primarily,
                    of the scholar.
        The basic document, and the only eyewitness account of the founding of 
            St. Louis
           is Auguste Chouteau's "Narrative," a fourteen-page
                    fragment which is possibly part of a longer journal which has never been located. Written during the
                    first or second decade of the nineteenth cntury, after the events which it mentions had taken place,
                    the narrative covers the years 1762-1765. The original document in Clioutzau's
                    handwriting is now in possession of the 
            St. Louis
           Mercantile Library. Four of Chouteau's depositions made in 1525 before
                    Theodore Hunt, Recorder of Land Titles, are also given in this volume in their chronological
                    sequence and these, together with the "Narrative" and some recorded conversations
                    with Chouteau form the basis for most of the later accounts.
        The five other selections included are: (1) John A. Paxton's "Notes on 
            St. Louis
          ," an unpaged preface to his 
            
              St. Louis

             Directory of 1821, the first part of which very clearly depends on
                    Chouteau's "Narrative"; (2) Lewis C.  Beck's ten-page historical and descriptive account of 
            St. Louis
           in his Gazetteer of 
            Illinois
           and 
            Missouri
           published in 1822, which says little about the opening years of the city; (3) a brief
                    article, obviously based on Chouteau's "Narrative" in the 
            St. Louis
          
          Beacon of January 24, 1831, written by "A Creole," in which he
                    corrects a statement he had seen about the founding of 
            St. Louis
          ; (4) a lecture given by Wilson Primm before the 
            St. Louis
           Lyceum probably in December, 1831, giving a history of the town based on
                    Chouteau's depositions but rejecting his statement that he had been in charge of the
                    beginning work on the 
            St. Louis
           settlement; and (5) Joseph N. Nicollet's excellent account written in 184,2,
                    rich in details derived from the Chouteau papers.
        In McDermott's scholarly "Introduction" of forty-three pages, he has
                    enumerated and given the significance of some twenty-five other historical comments on 
            St. Louis
           written before 1860 by historians and travelers. Also included is a chronology for the
                    years 1729-1821, and a list of selected references for the early history of 
            St. Louis
          . This introduction is invaluable for, although the "histories" could
                    be located and read elsewhere, their significance might be largely lost without the orientation
                    given here. Few authors would be as ably qualified as Professor McDermott to edit such a volume for
                    he brings to bear on the subject years of research on 
            St. Louis
           and 
            Mississippi Valley
           history. He has used footnotes with discretion, confining them in the
                    "histories" to those of the authors themselves.
        The book is well executed on good paper with clear printing and is carefully indexed.
        State Historical Society of 
            Missouri
          
        
        Floyd C. Shoemaker
      
      
        
          The Quiet Life of Mrs. General Lane. By Victoria Case. (
            Garden City, New
                    York
          : Doubleday & Co. Inc., 1952, pp. 319. $3.75.)
        Two years ago, A. B. Guthrie, writing in the 
            New York
          
          Times, asked some significant questions concerning the function and limitations of
                    the historical novelist: "Should he deal with the actual figures of history and the actual
                    events, or shall he go outside them?… If he employs the record,  what violence, if any, may he do it? May he invent words for
                    the mouths of skeletons, may he have dead limbs acting as live limbs never did, may he amend the
                    facts, extend the annals?" In answering these questions Guthrie expressed a
                    reluctance to assume that an actual historical personality said or did something that has no support
                    in the record, for "liberties like these tend to muddy history, as the little story of
                    George 
            Washington
           and the cherry tree has muddied history." What course, then, is open to the
                    historical novelist? If he has respect for the canons of historical scholarship, he will
                    parallel but not employ the record. His characters will be modeled on real characters, they will
                    speak a similar idiom, their adventures will have been suggested by real adventures, but real
                    persons will figure only in the background to establish time, place, and atmosphere.
        Judged by Guthrie's standards, The Quiet Life of Mrs. General Lane falls
                    short of perfection by no small degree, for it employs as its central figure the wife of Jo Lane,
                    Indiana politician, Mexican War hero, first Territorial Governor of 
            Oregon
          , and Vice-presidential candidate in 1860. Victoria Case has an explanation, however,
                    for handling her material as she did. She fell heir to the research of Nina Lane Faubion, a
                    descendent and would-be biographer of the General. Miss Case determined to use this material in
                    writing a novel rather than a biography presumably because Mrs. Faubion "kept in her memory
                    the family anecdotes and interpretations which are now forever lost."
        This reviewer feels that such a rationalization is untenable. In the first place, the reliability of
                    family anecdotes is open to question, and family "interpretations" suggest an
                    absence of the objectivity which is the shield of truth. Secondly, it may be doubted whether making
                    up the story from an "inner conviction" of the way Polly Lane must have lived and
                    felt is any guarantee of accuracy.

        On the positive side, it must be said that once having chosen the medium for her narrative, the
                    author carries it off as well as could be expected. She writes with vigor and imagination. Arranging
                    in novel form events in the lives of the General and his wife must have been a sizable task, for the
                    range of Jo Lane's interests was wide. If this book fails to enjoy the sales volume of
                    Irving Stone's Immortal  Wife, such
                    deficiency will not be due to any inherent inferiority, but to the fact that the main characters are
                    less known to the average reader. An attempt to cast light upon any of the unfamiliar but
                    influential figures in history is in itself laudable, if not salesworthy, however, for it points the
                    way to an area that could be exploited to the advantage of both the historian and the
                    non-professional student of history. Nevertheless, from the scholarly point of view, The Quiet Life of Mrs. General Lane, unlike the works of A. B. Guthrie and Conrad Richter,
                    will do little to dispel the widely held notion that the historical novel is the illegitimate spawn
                    of history and fiction.
        Hastings College
        Paul Glad
      
      
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Petroleum Administration for War.
                    Compiled by James R. Fuchs and Albert Whimpsey. Preliminary Inventories No. 31. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1951, pp. ix, 152.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Accounting Department of the Office of
                        Price Administration. Compiled by Meyer H. Fishbein and Elaine C. Bennett. Preliminary
                    Inventories No. 32. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1951, pp. vii, 108.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Bureau of Ordnance. Compiled by
                    William F. Shonkwiler. Preliminary Inventories No. 33. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1951, pp. v, 33.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Solid Fuels Administration for War.
                    Compiled by Edward F. Martin. Preliminary Inventories No. 34. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1951, pp. v, 39.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Office of Government Reports.
                    Compiled by H. Stephen Helton. Preliminary Inventories No. 35. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1951, pp. v, 106.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Bureau of the First Assistant Postmaster
                        General, 1789-1942. Compiled  by Frank J. Nivert and
                    Arthur Hecht. Preliminary Inventories No. 36. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1951, pp. v, 16.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Office for Agricultural War
                    Relations. Compiled by Harold T. Pinkett. Preliminary Inventories No. 37. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1952, pp. v, 19.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Climatological and Hydrological Records of the Weather
                        Bureau. Compiled by Harold T. Pinkett, Helen T. Finneran, and Katherine H. Davidson.
                    Preliminary Inventories No. 38. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1952, pp. v, 76.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Hydrographic Office. Compiled by
                    Walter W. Weinstein. Preliminary Inventories No. 39. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1952, pp. v, 17.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the 
              United States
             Mint at 
              Philadelphia
            . Compiled by Lyle J. Holverstott and Jean McNiece. Preliminary Inventories No.
                    40. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1952, pp. v, 138.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Senate Committee on Education and Labors;
                        Subcommittee on Wartime Health and Education, 19.43-66. Compiled by George P. Perros.
                    Preliminary Inventories No. 42. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1952, pp. v, 11.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the War Refugee Board. Compiled by Henry
                    T. Ulasek and Ira N. Kellogg, Jr. Preliminary Inventories No. 43. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1952, pp. v, 6.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the National Recovery Administration.
                    Compiled by Homer L. Calkin, Meyer H. Fishbein, and Leo Pascal. Preliminary Inventories No. 44. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1952, pp. viii, 226.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Cartographic Records of the Federal Housing
                        Administration. Compiled by Charlotte Munchmeyer. Preliminary Inventories No. 45. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1952, pp. v, 57.)
        
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Price Decontrol Board. Compiled by
                    James J. Fleischmann and Victor Gondos, Jr. Preliminary Inventories No. 46. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1952, pp. v, 4.)
        
          Preliminary Inventory of the Records of the Court of Claims Section of the Department
                        of Justice. Compiled by Gaiselle Kerner and Ira N. Kellogg, Jr. Preliminary Inventories No.
                    47. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1952, pp. v, 29.)
        
          List of Foreign Service Post Records in the National Archives. Compiled by Mark
                    G. Eckhoff and Alexander P. Mavro. Special Lists No. 9. (
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 1952, pp. v, 42.)
        
          Records in the National Archives Relating to the Russian Empire and the 
              Soviet Union
            . The National Archives Reference Information Papers No. 41, August 1952. ([
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 19521 pp. 77.)
        
          Historical Editing. By Clarence E. Carter. Bulletins of the National Archives
                    No. 7, August 1952. ([
            Washington
          : The National Archives, 19521 pp. 51; also paged pp. 181-231 of Bulletins.)
        The preliminary inventories of records of the federal government preserved in the National Archives
                    listed here extend the publication of these finding aids to 17 more of the 260 odd record groups
                    into which the holdings of the Archives are divided. These inventories are intended primarily for
                    staff use, and their purpose is to facilitate the use of the records and to serve as a means of
                    establishing administrative control over them. Each will be revised and the word
                    "preliminary" will be dropped from the title when a record group is in final
                    order.
        The List of Foreign Service Post Records in the National Archives, 1789-1949,
                    includes the records of all foreign service posts, diplomatic and consular, received and accessioned
                    by the National Archives through December 31, 1951. Most of the records of these posts to the year
                    1953 have been received by the Archives as well as a considerable quantity of later records from
                    closed posts in politically unsettled areas.  Information given
                    for each post consists of the inclusive dates of the records and their volume in cubic feet.
        The Records in the National Archives Relating to the Russian Empire and the 
              Soviet Union
            
           cuts across record groups and describes by general subject categories material
                    included in at least 92 record groups. The most numerous records are those accumulated by the State
                    Department. Some of these and other pertinent records have been reproduced on microfilm which can be
                    purchased from the National Archives. Records thus available are so indicated in this publication.
        Clarence E. Carter's Historical Editing has been prepared primarily for
                    the use of staff members of the National Archives who are called upon to edit for publication
                    documents of historical significance in the keeping of the Archives. It is not intended as a manual
                    of inflexible rules, but rather as a general discussion for the inexperienced editor of problems
                    that arise in the editing of historical materials and the most generally approved methods of solving
                    them. Topics discussed include the search for relevant documents, canons of selection, textual
                    criticism, transcription, arrangement, annotation, collation, preparation of copy for the printer,
                    proof reading, processing of page proof, and indexing.
        Indiana University
        Doris M. Reed
      
      
      
        Genealogy
        Samuel Scott of 
            Martinsville
          
        
        
          Ruby T. Scott
          *
        
        "So rapidly does time send all our names into oblivion, excepting a very few, so thoroughly
                    are we forgotten in the whirl of the activities of life;" thus in 1915, Noah J. Major wrote
                    concerning the founders of 
            Martinsville
          , Indiana.1
        
        And yet, this is not always true. Even in a virgin country where records are few a surprising number
                    of names find "lodgment in the stream of time"—in family papers, in old
                    county histories, and in county courthouse records. And when the leads furnished by tradition have
                    been sifted, checked, and rechecked, when the facts from many sources have been gathered and
                    organized, the picture begins to emerge. Notes from records in one county illuminate the others from
                    sources in another state. A puzzling bit faithfully noted down is sometimes the answer to a question
                    not yet asked. Even so simple a device as organizing known facts into a careful chronology will
                    often reveal evidence of acceptable veracity, as a lightning flash may sometimes reveal unfamiliar
                    country and show the way a traveler must go.
        After a time the man sought emerges and the trails he followed become clear. One can see, at last,
                    the man "in his habit as he lived"—perhaps as clearly as he was known
                    to many of his contemporaries. After all, do not contemporaries often see each other through a glass
                    darkly, even though they are face to face?
        The Scott family left 
            Kentucky
           for Indiana Territory about 1815. Of English descent, the father, Samuel Scott, Sr.,
                    had come to 
            Kentucky
           County, 
            Virginia
          , shortly before that hard-won territory became a state. In that section of 
            Mason County

          , which in 1796 was given the name of Fleming County, he had married, and between about
                    1790 and 1800 
            
              * Ruby T. Scott, a granddaughter of Josephus Scott, is an
                            associate professor of English at the University of 
                Toledo
              . 
                Toledo
              . 
                Ohio
              .
            
              1 Logan Esarey (ed.), "The Pioneers of 
                Morgan County
              : Memoirs of Noah J. Major," Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                Indianapolis
              , 1895-, V (1915), 247.
          
           had four children, two sons and two daughters. The
                    children's mother died, probably before they left 
            Kentucky

          . The two sons were William, born about 1791, and Samuel Scott, Jr. born in 1793. The
                    daughters were Rebecca and Elizabeth born about 1795 and 1798 respectively.2
        
        Probably a large party assembled for this migration, many of them related by blood ties. Danger from
                    Indians was less at this time than at any time previous, since the treaty which ended the War of
                    1812 had been signed the year before on December 24, 1814.
        The party traveled first by horseback and on foot LO Maysville, 
            Kentucky
          . From there, the natural highway westward was the 
            Ohio River
          . Floating down its broad levels in flatboats, they would still keep a sharp outlook for
                    Indians along the banks. They would remember many stories current of Indian attacks on river
                    travelers within the years just past. Danger was present also in the river itself, however placid
                    and beautiful it looked in the morning mists: danger in sandbars, in rock ledges, in sunken logs, in
                    submerged trees which lifted their dead sharp branches at intervals with the current, or, worse
                    still, did not show themselves but were ready at any time to rip through the bottom of a boat or
                    impale it on a sharp point.
        After days countering these hazards, a landing was made on the Indiana side, probably near Fort
                    Finney, where at 
            Jeffersonville
           preparations could be made for the northward journey by land into the interior. Every
                    migration party in those days must have been sustained in confidence and determination by the
                    thought, "We are not alone. Others have gone before us. Still others will come after
                    us."
        The principal path northward was the old Indian trail which had been used by the 
            Delaware
          , the Miami, and the Potawatomi. The white men made early use of these old, 
            
              2 In 1818, Samuel Scott, Sr. bought town lots in 
                Bloomington
              , Indiana. F. s. Battey and Co., Counties of Morgan, 
                  Monroe
                 and 
                  Brown
                , Indiana (
                Chicago
              , 1884), 453. Letter from John Leonard Scott to Ira R. Tabor, October 17, 1918,
                            in Purl A. Scott collection of family papers. Facts about this family are found in the
                            papers relative to the settlement of the estate of Samuel Scott, Sr. in the County
                            Clerk's office,. 
                Morgan County
               Courthouse, 
                Martinsville
              , Indiana, Complete Record Book, B, 
                Morgan County
              , 1833, pp. 29-41. William's birth date is calculated from that of
                            Samuel, William being the elder. Samuel Scott, Junior's birth date is shown by
                            the inscription on his gravestone in Wesley Chapel Cemetery near Scottland, 
                Illinois
              ,; "Samuel Scott died December 19, 1870, aged 77 years, 2
                            m's, 15 days.
          
           well-established paths. Oliver H. Smith gave a brief vivid
                    picture of travel in Indiana in 1817. All travel was by foot or on horseback. He wrote about the
                    "winding Indian paths when the bear, the deer and the wolf sprang up" before
                        him.3
        
        After many days of travel and nights of camping along the trail, the Scott family reached a spot on a
                    branch of the East Fork of the White River, where they decided to settle, at least for a time. The
                    branch was called Salt Creek. Later this region was named Salt Creek Township in Jackson County. 
            Brownstown
          , the county seat, was established in 1816.4
        
        Near Salt Creek the Scotts found new friends in the family of William Tabor, who had come to this
                    region sometime between 1788 and 1793, shortly after the general migration to the Northwest
                    Territory began. He was, in fact, a "squatter," with no governmental authority for
                    settling where he did, and no intention of giving up any part of the land he occupied through his
                    own private arrangements with the Indians. Several years earlier he had come from 
            Germany
           as a young man, probably first to 
            Pennsylvania
          , and later through 
            Virginia

           to Indiana. He had settled on high ground above a branch of Salt Creek, which soon
                    became known as Tabor's Mound, and the stream as Tabor Branch.5
        

        Here he married and began to raise a family on the farm he was carving from the wilderness. In 1815
                    his family consisted of his wife and four children: Jesse, aged twenty-one, Rebecca aged twelve,
                    Isaac about five years old, and Martin aged four.6
        
        
          
            3
            
              Seymour
             Dunbar, A History of Travel in America (
              New York
            , 1937), 651; Oliver H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches (
              Cincinnati
            , 1858), 287.
          
            4 Brant and Fuller, History of Jackson County, Indiana (
              Chicago
            , 1886), 328.
          
            5 William Tabor's eldest son Jesse was born in Jackson County
                        in 1794, according to the records of Jesse's grandson, Ira R. Tabor, attorney in
                        Davenport, 
              Iowa
            . Letter from Ira R. Tabor to Purl A. Scott, July 19, 1928. See also, letter of John
                        Leonard Scott to Ira R. Tabor, October 17, 1918.
          
            6 It has been impossible to learn the name or the exact marriage date of
                        William Tabor's first wife as there are no public records of marriages in this region
                        at that time. Rebecca Tabor Scott's gravestone in Wesley Chapel Cemetery, near
                        Scottland, 
              Illinois

            , bears the inscription, "Died Feb. 7, 1886, aged 83 yrs, 3 days."
                        Birth dates for which no record exists can be approximately calculated from records of marriage
                        dates. Few men married before they were twenty-one, although girls married earlier, usually
                        around the age of fifteen. Gilbert H. Doane, Searching for Your Ancestors (
              Minneapolis
            , 1948), gives an interesting discussion of this problem.
        
        
        Having been so long established in the new territory, the Tabor family must have been of great help
                    to Samuel Scott, Sr. and his sons and daughters. The young people were near the same ages. William
                    at twenty-four and Samuel at twenty-two would welcome the friendship of Jesse Tabor. Rebecca at
                    twenty and Elizabeth at seventeen added those delightful elements of companionship which girls can
                    always give to their brothers and their friends. Isaac and Martin Tabor were "the little
                    boys," but young Rebecca Tabor at twelve was undoubtedly beginning to feel herself to be
                    more than a child and quite ready to enjoy the friendship of the Scott sisters. The young men and
                    their fathers would soon have raised a log cabin for their shelter. They would get ready for winter
                    and plan what to do as soon as spring came on.
        The dark forest was all around them. It was still Indian country. The land occupied by these earliest
                    settlers bordered on the ancient hunting grounds of the Miami, who were considered to be hostile.
                    The 
            Delaware

           and Shawnee were generally considered friendly, but, from the white man's
                    point of view, they too were "treacherous." In 1816, Indiana was admitted to
                    statehood, but it took five years more before what is now Jackson County could be lawfully called
                    the white man's country.7
        
        When the log cabin for the newcomers was finished, the Scotts must have been thankful and happy with
                    their new home and their new friends. Rebecca would be doing her best with Elizabeth's
                    help to take their mother's place in keeping their father and their two brothers fed and
                    clothed. In those days, women had few if any idle hours.

        The long winter evenings must have been pleasant before the big fireplaces in the cabins, where the
                    supply of fuel never failed as long as there were strong men to chop down the trees and split the
                    logs. A man could feel good chopping his daily supply, or building up a reserve stock on his
                    woodpile. "Wood chopping warms you twice," they used to say. He knew he was doing
                    two good things at once: keeping his 
            
              7
              History of Jackson County, 315; Dunbar, History of Travel in
                                America, 443, 463, 475. Three excellent maps show the growth of the white
                            man's country through acquisition of Indian lands. These are reproductions of the
                            map prepared by John Melish in 1817, another map showing Indiana in 1820, and a third map
                            showing Indiana in 1827 from a New General Atlas, published by Anthony
                            Finley at 
                Philadelphia
              , 1827.
          
           family warm for the present and clearing his ground for future
                    planting.
        Wood fires and stories have always gone together since the first cave men sat in the light of their
                    fires before their caves and told the adventures of the day's hunting. Literature may be
                    said to have begun in the light of a fire.

        William Tabor had many stories to tell. One of them concerned his earliest days at Tabor Mound. The
                    Indians were very bad at that time and the few settlers had built a blockhouse on Tabor Mound and
                    all moved into it. Because of the tribesmen it was very dangerous for anyone to leave the
                    blockhouse. Then one of the company died. Five men were detailed to take the corpse out and bury it.
                    They succeeded in their mission, but when the party returned from the grave, the Indians fired on
                    them, killing their leader. The other four men made their escape back to the blockhouse.8
        

        When the War of 1812 began, there were ninety-three families in Jackson County. Seventy families
                    immediately fled from the country. Twenty-three families remained to see it through. These were the
                    families of William Graham, Jesse B. Durham, John Griffiths, John Berry, Daniel McCoy, Samuel Slade,
                    John Sage, Samuel Burcham, James McGee, Abraham Miller, Daniel Beem, Aquila Rogers, David Rogers,
                    John Storm, Robert Sturgeon, James Hutcheson, John Johnson, Abraham Huff, John Ketchum, William
                    Ruddick, John Parker, a family named Willson, and the family of William Tabor. "This little
                    band got themselves together and built forts at convenient distances and locations… one
                    at Burcham's, one at Huff's near the mouth of Huff's Creek, one
                    near Wallonia and at other convenient points."9
        
        In the fall of 1812 the terrible massacre occurred at Pigeon Roost, when a band of Indians suddenly
                    appeared at the settlement and killed twenty of the settlers, almost all women and children.
        William Tabor had taken his family to Fort 
            Vallonia

           for protection. Here they remained in comparative safety for a short time. Then an
                    outbreak of fever made the fort, too, a doubtful refuge. Between redmen in the forest and fever
                        
            
              8 Told by Isaac Tabor to John Leonard Scott. Letter in Purl A. Scott
                            Collection of family papers.
            
              9
              History of Jackson County, 315.
          
           at the fort, William preferred to meet the enemy he could see.
                    The Tabors went back to their cabin home on Tabor Branch and "with the aid of four fierce
                    dogs and an old rifle, William protected those dependent on him" until the war was over.10
        
        To the question, "What did you do in the Revolution?" a fabled Frenchman
                    at the turn of the century is said to have replied, "I lived through it." Any
                    survivor of the twenty-three courageous families who remained in Jackson County during the War of
                    1812 might have made the same reply as adequate evidence of his valor and patriotism.
        The Scotts were always land hungry. Samuel Scott, Sr. soon began to look about for new opportunities.
                    The land in 
            Monroe County

           lying south of the old Indian boundary line had been surveyed in the autumn of 1812 and
                    thrown into the market in 1816. In this year, Samuel, Sr. entered Section 34. The land was still
                    legally the property of the Indians until October, 1818, when it was ceded to the government as part
                    of the "New Purchase."11
        
        Among the earliest residents of 
            Bloomington
           Township, 
            Monroe County
          , were Samuel Scott, Sr. and John Scott, who left Jackson County at this time, to be
                    followed later by others of the family group. John and David Scott, brothers, and probably cousins
                    of Samuel Senior's children, were members of the group who had come from 
            Kentucky
           together.12
        

        Meanwhile, Samuel, Sr. had married again, probably about 1817, and about 1818 a son was born and was
                    named David, in honor of his cousin, John's brother, who soon began to be referred to as
                    David B.13
        
        
          
            10 Chapman Brothers, Portrait and Biographical Album of
                            Vermilion and Edgar Counties, 
                Illinois
              
             (
              Chicago
            , 1889), 914.
          
            11
            Counties of Morgan, 
                Monroe
               and 
                Brown
              
            , 372, 452, 451.
          
            12 The activities of John and David Scott run parallel with those of
                        Samuel Scott, Sr. and Samuel, Jr. in Jackson County, 
              Monroe County
            , and 
              Morgan County
            .
          
            13 Samuel Scott, Senior's second marriage is evidenced by
                        references to Samuel Scott, Junior's "Half-brother" in
                        "Edgar County Pioneers," The Chrisman, 
              Illinois
            , Courier, February 16, 1922. This is Isaac Scott's
                        account of his father. The date of the marriage and the birth date of young David are calculated
                        from the record of young David's marriage in Marriage Record Book A, 
              Morgan County
            , Indiana, 481. Young David was still a minor in 1834 when the estate of Samuel
                        Scott, Sr., his father, was settled. Complete Record Book B, 
              Morgan County
            , Indiana, 34.
        
        
        In numerous other ways, 1818 was an interesting year for the Scott family. Since there were only
                    thirty families in 
            Bloomington
           in 1818, every competent man was expected to accept responsibility and do his best for
                    all. On April 18 was brought forward the first petition for a county road "to extend from 
            Bloomington
           to Scott's Ferry on Salt Creek and thence to the Lawrence County
                    line." John was one of the three appointed viewers. When in May the report of the viewers
                    was accepted and the road ordered built, Samuel Scott and two others were appointed road
                    supervisors. John Scott was one of the first grand jurors of 
            Monroe County
          , and Samuel was on the traverse jury.14
        
        Meanwhile, in Jackson County on May 22, 1818, David Scott had married Holley Skinner, "by
                    consent of her father." The young couple apparently left 
            Brownstown
           at once for 
            Bloomington
          . The first Circuit Court of 
            Monroe County
           was held in June, 1818, and David took a place on the first petit jury.15
        
        Another marriage in 
            Brownstown

          , of more immediate interest to the writer, was that of Samuel Scott, Jr. to young
                    Rebecca Tabor on October 6, 1818. Rebecca was fifteen years old and Samuel twenty-five when the
                    justice of the peace, James McTagertt, performed the simple ceremony "by consent of her
                    father she being of Lawful Age." The clerk apparently wrote all names as they sounded to
                    him. Rebecca's name is spelled "Rebekah Tabour" in License 49, and
                    "Rebecah Tabor" when the bonds were solemnized the next day.16
        
        Rebecca was the first of the Tabor children to marry. When her oldest brother Jesse was married on
                    May 24, 1819, to Theresa Skinner, of the same family as David Scott's wife, Holley,
                    Theresa's name was spelled "Treasey," probably her nickname. Through
                    the years this name became so misunderstood by her descendants that it came out in 1928 as
                    "Lucretia."
        Samuel, Jr. and Rebecca remained for a few months near her parents in Jackson County, but in 1819,
                    when the country in 
            Monroe County
           lying north of the old Indian 
            
              14
              Counties of 
                  Monroe, Morgan
                 and 
                  Brown
                
              , 455, 375.
            
              15
              Ibid., 376, Marriage Books A and B, Jackson County Indiana, 11.
            
              16 Early Marriage Record Book A, Jackson County, Indiana, 13. This is
                            the original book, later copied in Marriage Books A. and B.
          
           boundary line was surveyed, they moved to 
            Bloomington

           and Samuel, Jr. entered land in Township 9, North, Range 1 West. There on July 13,
                    1819, Samuel, Jr. and Rebecca's first son was born and named William for Samuel,
                    Jr.'s older brother.17
        
        The forest still surrounded them for many miles on every side. Sixty miles to the northeast, in the
                    year of 1820, a tiny village sprang up under the grand name of 
            Indianapolis
          , a name made large like the clothes of pioneer children to allow for future growth.
                    There were no roads to connect it to other parts of the newly admitted state of Indiana. In 1824, 
            Indianapolis
           could boast of 600 inhabitants all living along a single street. In 1825 it became the
                    capital of the state.
        Before the birth of their second son, John, on September 6, 1820, Samuel and Rebecca had moved along
                    with the entire Scott clan to 
            Washington
           Township, 
            Morgan County
          , twenty miles north of 
            Bloomington

          . Here there were only a few settlers. The Cutlers had come in the fall of 1819. The
                    next year brought several other families. Samuel Scott, Jr. on January 9, 1821, entered land in
                    "Section 4, Township 11, Range 1, W 1/2 NW 1/4."18
        
        The Scotts built their cabins in the White River bottom south of the present site of Centerton.
                    George Matthews from 
            North Carolina
           was said to have been the first man to build his cabin in this settlement. It stood
                    one-fourth mile northeast of the present site of Centerton. "Almost while he was cutting
                    his cabin logs, came Isaiah Drury, of 
            Ohio
          ; Alexander Cox, of 
            Pennsylvania
          ; John Stipp, of 
            Virginia
          ; and Samuel Scott, of 
            Kentucky
          ."19
        

        The settlement soon came to be called the Matthews and Drury Neighborhood. The families were friends
                    as well as neighbors. The names of George Matthews' sons, Calvin, Alfred, James, and
                    George, were often associated with those of Samuel Scott, Jr., John, and David B. in the activities
                    of the region. It seems likely that Samuel and Rebecca's third 
            
              17
              Ibid., 16; Counties of 
                  Monroe, Morgan
                 and 
                  Brown
                
              , 373; Portrait and Biographical Album of Vermilion and
                                Edgar Counties, 
                  Illinois
                
              , 1067.
            
              18
              Portrait and Biographical Album of Vermilion and Edgar Counties, 
                  Illinois
                
              , 1019; Counties of 
                  Monroe, Morgan
                 and 
                  Brown
                
              , 80, 82.
            
              19 "Pioneers of 
                Morgan County
              ," Indiana Historical Society Publications, V,
                            264-65.
          
           son, Calvin, born on January 31, 1822, was named for Calvin
                        Matthews.20
        
        Samuel, Junior's sisters, Rebecca and Elizabeth Scott, were married, apparently soon after
                    the arrival of the family in 
            Morgan County
          . Rebecca became the wife of Thomas Wall and Elizabeth married Summerly Cunningham.21
        
        Meanwhile an important new project was in progress, the location of the county seat of 
            Morgan County
          . Five public-spirited men in the vicinity were willing to offer more than enthusiasm to
                    secure its location. Joel Ferguson and Jacob Cutler gave thirty-seven and one half acres; John Gray,
                    Joshua Taylor, and Samuel Scott, Jr. gave forty acres each for the new town since they had entered
                    land near the proposed site. In March, 1822, the location was completed, and 
            Martinsville
           became the county seat of 
            Morgan County
          .22
        
        Lot sales were held in June, August, and November of 1822. All the donors bought lots in these sales.
                    About six families built houses on the town site in 1822. Jacob Cutler's log house, built
                    in 1820, was the first house in town. The first courts of 
            Morgan County
           convened in his house.23
        
        On July 2, 1822, Samuel Scott, Jr. was appointed Justice of the Peace, one of the earliest in the
                    County. From August 18, 1824, until his death in 1833, Samuel Scott, Sr. was commissioned as Coroner
                    in 
            Morgan County

          . When the Second Circuit Court convened on September 23, 1822, both Samuel Scott, Jr.
                    and his father, Samuel Scott, Sr., served on the Grand Jury. Ten cases came before the court at this
                    session, eight of them charges of assault and battery. Each Grand Juror, as well as the Bailiff,
                    Abraham Keedy, was paid seventy-five cents for the day.24
        

        Samuel Scott, Jr. sometimes appeared in court in other capacities. On August 20, 1822, he was
                    recorded as a witness against one George W. Preston, who "with force and arms did
                    unlawfully sell and retail one quart of spiritous liquors 
            
              20 Records of John L. Scott, son of Calvin.
            
              21 Papers relative to the settlement of the estate of Samuel Scott,
                            Sr., Complete Record Book B, 
                Morgan County
              , Indiana, 29-41.
            
              22
              Counties of 
                  Monroe, Morgan
                 and 
                  Brown
                
              , 81, 82; "Pioneers of 
                Morgan County
              ," Indiana Historical Society Publications, V, 247.
            
              23
              Counties of 
                  Monroe, Morgan
                 and 
                  Brown
                
              , 83.
            
              24
              Ibid., 16-17, Indiana Executive Proceedings, 
                Morgan County
              , Indiana, 1829-1832, p. 223; ibid., 1824-1827, pp. 535,
                        537.
          
           commonly called whisky to one Samuel Scott for money, to wit
                    twenty cents, to be drank at the place where sold, George W. Preston being without a
                        license."25
        

        Remembering the free flow of "spiritous liquors" at this period and the fact that
                    county boards often furnished free whisky at land sales,26 one wonders if much
                    "force and arms" were necessary in the above instance.

        On October 7, 1823, Samuel Scott, Jr. was a defendant in a suit brought by James Cutler, in which
                    Samuel had to pay a debt of $6.25 and costs, thirty-seven and one-half cents to the
                    Justice of Peace and a similar amount to the Circuit Court.27 The trouble had
                    begun on June 19, and is probably an instance of the stubborn pride of the man in holding out on
                    what he must have considered an unfair charge.
        On September 7, 1827, Samuel had words with one John Morrison, and the Sheriff of 
            Morgan County
           was ordered "to take John Morrison if he be found in your bailwick, and him
                    safely keep so that you have his body before the judges of our 
            Morgan County
           court on the first day of our next term to be held in the courthouse of the town of 
            Martinsville

          , on the last Monday of February next, to Samuel Scott, Jr. in action in the case for
                    slanderous words spoken to his damage, $5000. No bail required without the
                    judge's order." This case was dismissed at the cost of the defendant, who was
                    ordered "to pay $5000 within 30 days, and on failure, that he be
                        attached."28
        

        In his capacity as Justice of the Peace on November 15, 1827, Samuel Scott, Jr. officiated at the
                    marriage of John Scott to Elizabeth Olds. Samuel's older brother William had married
                    Elizabeth Jones on January 20, 1823. With Samuel and William's sister Elizabeth, married
                    to Summerly Cunningham, there were now three Elizabeths in the Scott clan with the two Rebeccas, two
                    Williams, two Johns, and three Davids, not to mention the two Samuel Scotts. When Samuel and
                    Rebecca's fifth son was born, early in 1829, he was named Josephus.29
        
        
          
            25 Order Book, 
              Morgan County
            , Indiana, Circuit Court, August 20, 1822.
          
            26
            Counties of 
                Monroe, Morgan
               and 
                Brown
              
            , 453.
          
            27 Order Book, 
              Morgan County
            , Indiana, Circuit Court, 39.
          
            28
            Ibid., 413.
          
            29 Marriage Record Book A, 
              Morgan County
            , Indiana, 66, 4; Gravestone in Woodland Cemetery, Chrisman, 
              Illinois
            .
        
        
        One of the most important activities in the region around 
            Martinsville
           was the initiation of pioneer commerce. Among the pioneers who ran the first broadhorns
                    down the rivers to 
            New Orleans
          —through the White River, the 
            Wabash
          , the 
            Ohio
          , and the 
            Mississippi
          , a distance of eighteen hundred miles—were Samuel Scott, Jr., John Scott,
                    David B. Scott, and their friends the Matthews brothers and others from the Matthews and Drury
                    Neighborhood. John was mentioned as "the most skillful steersman… on the big
                    rivers" by Noah J. Major, who has left a most interesting account of this phase of 
            Morgan County
           life.30
        
        John Scott owned and operated the first ferryboat across the White River between 
            Martinsville
           and 
            Mooresville
          , near his home. The ferry operated with sweep oars and setting poles.31 There exists a curious document by which John was brought into court to answer a charge
                    that he had "so suffered and persecuted the banks of the said White River at said Ferry
                    Landing as to be impossible for man and horse and loaded wagons." John pleaded not guilty
                    to the charge and was at once acquitted.32 Apparently the twelve good men of the
                    jury were realists.
        Samuel and Rebecca had lived in 
            Morgan County
           for ten years. The country was filling up. The new community was well established.
                    Samuel began to feel the old restlessness, the eagerness to move on farther west to new territory.
                    Occasional travelers had brought back enthusiastic accounts of the broad open prairies, the rich
                    black soil, the groves of fine timber, the God's plenty of pheasants, turkeys, geese, and
                    other kinds of game in the wonderful country beyond the 
            Wabash
           in the new state of 
            Illinois
          .

        Samuel determined to make the move, remarking that he did not like to live so close to a village. The
                    boys were excited at the thought of a long journey. William was ten years old now, John nine, Calvin
                    seven, and David five. Josephus, the baby, was only a few months old. Plans were made, Samuel sold
                    out his holdings, a sale disposed of household 
            
              30 "Pioneers of 
                Morgan County
              ," Indiana Historical Society Publications, V,
                            395-409.
            
              31
              Ibid., 275.
            
              32 Complete Record Book B, 
                Morgan County
              , Indiana, November Term, 1836.
          
           goods which they could not take with them, and in May, 1829,
                    the journey to 
            Illinois
           began.33
        
        One can imagine the early morning preparations: the breakfast by candlelight, the excitement of the
                    children, the wagon being loaded, Rebecca stepping about briskly and cheerfully as usual, directing
                    the packing, saying never a word of what she felt in her heart. Samuel attending to the forty head
                    of cattle they had decided to take with them probably thought of the road they would travel, saw
                    that the wagon and teams were in good condition, and kept his mind on the immediate needs of the
                    journey.
        Today, a hundred and twenty-four years later, the great-great-grandchildren of Samuel and Rebecca can
                    cover the whole distance by automobile in a Sunday jaunt. But in 1829, it was a different story.
                    Dangers and privations lay ahead; friends left behind would be rarely heard from, seldom if ever
                    seen again; and no one could be sure how the venture would turn out. The story of this family was
                    the story of nearly every pioneer family who helped open up the near West to civilization.

        They made the journey overland with teams, camping and cooking along the wayside and sleeping in
                    their wagon at night. Rebecca and the younger children rode in the wagon, while Samuel and Billy
                    walked ahead driving the cattle. "The roads were poor, through swamps and over hills,
                    fording creeks and ferrying rivers. There were few bridges. Sometimes the streams were so swollen by
                    spring rains that the travellers had to wait several days for the water to go down."34 The old pioneer proverb, "Never change horses in the middle of a
                    stream," was immediate and practical advice to them. When their provisions gave out they
                    shot their meat as they needed it. The cattle ate the grass along the way.

        The woods were filled with wild life and infested with wolves. John was sometimes able to count as
                    many as a hundred wolves at one time. At night the children could see 
            
              33
              Portrait and Biographical Album of Vermilion and Edgar Counties, 
                  Illinois
                
              , 841; Wm LeBaron, Jr., & Co., History of Edgar
                                County, 
                  Illinois
                
               (
                Chicago
              , 1879), "Samuel Scott." Also, W. D. Scott, A Histo of a
                            Branch of the Scott Family, a manuscript in the Purl A. Scott Collection of family papers.
            
              34
              History of Edgar County, 
                  Illinois
                . Description of conditions at this time.
          
           their gleaming eyes in the wide circle of the black dark around
                    their campfire. In the morning and early evening, David loved to watch the deer bounding by in the
                    forest. Once he counted fifty in one herd.35
        
        At last, after long weeks of travel the day came when they crossed the 
            Illinois
           Line and soon they reached the edge of the timber at the present location of 
            Quaker
           Point, Indiana.36 They made camp and prepared to stay for a while
                    and look around. The open prairie lay before them—the land of promise. Its name was 
            Prairie
           Township, Edgar County.
        Eight years later in a little book of "Suggestions to Emigrants" in 
            
              Illinois
             in 1837, an early traveler in this region said: "The prairies of 
            Illinois

           may be classed under three general divisions:—the healthy, or bushy; the
                    alluvial, or wet; and the dry, or undulating. Those designated healthy have springs of water and are
                    covered with bushes of hazel and furze, small sassafras shrub;, interspersed with grapevines, and in
                    the season of flowers a rich profusion of gay, herbaceous plants. Early in March the forests are in
                    blossom, and the brilliant red tufts of the Judas tree (cercis candensis)
                    handsomely exhibit its charms. The Lonicera Flava or yellow-flowered honeysuckle,
                    diffuses its pleasant fragrance, and the lovely yellow jasmine, or Jasminum
                    fruticans impregnates the air with its delicious perfume. The alluvial, or wet
                    prairies…. have soil that is deep, black, friable, and of exhaustless fertility. From May
                    to October the prairies are covered with tall grass and flower-producing weeds. In June and July,
                    they seem like an ocean of flowers. There are numerous ponds."37
        

        It was now early summer. Probably the travelers continued for some weeks to live in their wagon. On
                    their first night they had accepted the hospitable invitation extended to them by a family named
                    Jones, probably Jacob Jones, to stay at their cabin.38 The younger children
                    could play together, while the women could do the cooking and washing under the shade of the great
                    trees.
        
          
            35
            Portrait and Biographical Album of Vermilion and Edgar Counties, 
                Illinois
              
            , 1019, 1082.
          
            36 W. D. Scott, History of a Branch of the Scott Family.
          
            37
            
              
                Illinois
               in 1837 (
              Philadelphia
            , 1837), 119-21.
          
            38 W. D. Scott, History of a Branch of the Scott Family.
        
        
        As in Caesar's famous passage: "All things had now to be done by Caesar at one
                    time." Along with the willing and welcome help of other settlers, there was more than
                    enough work to keep everyone in the family busy from morning to night. The cattle were turned out to
                    graze on the prairie with young Billy and Jack to herd them. Dave could play with the two smaller
                    boys and see that they did not stray too far away from the wagon. A new log house must be built
                    before winter.
        The new cabin was to be larger than the ones they had left in Indiana. It was to be built of the same
                    kind of split logs, notched to fit in place; it was to have a clapboard roof and windows covered
                    with oiled paper, a wide fireplace, and chimney. There was also to be a loft where the boys could
                    sleep, and a ladder to reach the loft-hole.

        When the log house was finished and the family had settled, Samuel rode on his horse over the
                    surrounding country to look over the land. There were many ponds and much of what he saw was marshy.
                    Fish abounded in the ponds and rattlesnakes were numerous. Another settler reported that he had
                    killed seventy-five rattlesnakes on his land in one year. He mentioned a blue-flowered weed that
                    they boiled in milk and drank for snake bites.39 The marshy lands bred many
                    mosquitoes—some of them "big enough to stand flat-footed and drink out of a rain
                    barrel," as the saying went. Much of the land was covered with the coarse prairie grass
                    which grew higher than the head of a man on horseback.
        But the rich black loam was there—virgin land. The deep fertility of hundreds of years lay
                    ready for use as soon as the land could be broken by the plow. And over it all arched the wide blue
                    sky with high clouds and a fresh breeze blowing. Here a man could look straight out over the rim of
                    the earth in any direction. He knew who he was and where he was going.

        But the land would first have to be ditched and drained. That would take time and co-operation.
                    Meanwhile, the prairie was a perfect pasture for cattle. They could graze far and wide now, before
                    all the land had been taken up. Cattle 
            
              39 James Loop's reminiscences as told to Marie Rune,
                            "Metcalf, Hume, and Scottland," 
                Terre Haute
              
              Sunday Tribune and Sunday Star, November 9, 1941.
          
           and horses seemed to thrive on the prairie grass. Samuel
                    decided to buy and feed cattle.
        Most of the early immigrants to Edgar County, 
            Illinois
          , came from the heavily-wooded regions of 
            Kentucky
          , 
            Ohio

          , and Indiana. They settled on the edge of the timber because the trees reminded them of
                    their old homes.40 Their fathers had cleared away the forest, and they expected
                    to do the same.
        Samuel Scott was among the first to buy land out on the prairie. Almost the whole of the township,
                    except the fringe of timber along Brouillett's Creek, was prairie, and it was here that
                    Samuel secured his land, by entry and purchase, from the 
            United States
           government.
        One of Samuel's early warrants, a tough old "sheepskin," Certificate
                    2557, attests that the 
            United States

           of America "have given and granted, and by these Presents Do give and grant,
                    unto the said Samuel Scott and to his heirs, the said tract above described, To Have and To Hold the
                    same, together with all the rights, privileges, immunities and appurtenances of whatsoever nature,
                    thereunto belonging, unto the said Samuel Scott and to his heirs and assigns forever." It
                    bears the sprawling, underscored signature of Andrew Jackson.41 There is a tinge
                    of red where the big seal of the Land Office at Palestine used to be. The date is June 13, 1831. The
                    price was $1.25 an acre. Any thrifty man could buy.
        Although the family had settled into their new home, the log house could be improved and made more
                    comfortable now that winter lessened the amount of outdoor work. Of course, there was always wood to
                    be chopped, meat to be provided from the plentiful wild game, the cattle to be fed night and
                    morning. Rail fences had been laid to pen them in. Wild grasses had been gathered and stored to feed
                    them.

        But the grass proved to be the wrong kind. They had saved "that which was most abundant and
                    least valuable. The forty head of cattle nearly all died during that first winter, which was one of
                    unusual severity." The old record 
            
              40
              History of Edgar County, 
                  Illinois
                .
            
            
              41 After this date land grants were frequently signed by the secretary
                            of the President. This signature, however, proves by comparison with Andrew
                            Jackson's unquestioned signatures, to be authentic.
          
           goes on to say: "But undismayed by this, as well as by
                    many other adversities, they pushed steadily onward, regardless of untold difficulty, and by dint of
                    energy and industry, they could soon see their way clear."42 These
                    words could be the memorial of every pioneer family.
        Before the winter was over, Rebecca's sixth son was born and named 
            Franklin
          . He was the first of the Scott children to be born in 
            Illinois
          . Andrew Jackson Scott was born June 1, 1833, and 
            Lafayette
           on March 27, 1836.43 The loft was filling up with boys.
        Meanwhile, Samuel carried out his plans for raising cattle on a large scale. He purchased them in the
                    South every spring in order to take advantage of the summer grass. He had learned from hard
                    experience, and he knew now how to feed them during the winter. When they had reached the desired
                    weight, he drove them through a hundred and twenty-five miles north to a little hamlet called by the
                    Ojibwa 
            Chicago
          . In 1823 it contained five small stores and 250 inhabitants. Between the village and
                    the lake the 
            United States
           had established Fort 
            Dearborn
           and garrisoned it, until the expulsion of the Indians after the Black Hawk War, with
                    about three companies of regular troops. Here, Samuel regularly disposed of his cattle at a
                    "good round sum." One of the boys went with him each trip to help drive the
                    cattle. David and Jack long remembered those trips.
        A neighbor of Samuel's, Horatio Blanchard, who had settled in Edgar County in 1830, has
                    left a detailed record of his first trip to 
            Chicago
          . A close observer with a keen recognition of history in the making, he walked to 
            Chicago
           in 1832 to be there at the signing of the treaty. He remained there for a few months
                    and then walked back the hundred and twenty-five miles to his log house on the east of
                    Brouillett's Creek. The following year, to obtain money to pay for his land, he repeated
                    the trip and was employed on the first brick building in 
            Chicago
          , a warehouse built by Henry and Gurdon S. Hubbard. Blanchard's trip to 
            Chicago
           was through a wild and unsettled country. He said the distance between 
            
              42 "William Scott." History of Edgar
                                County, 
                  Illinois
                .
            
            
              43 "
                Lafayette
               Scott," ibid.; Portrait and Biographical Album of
                                Vermilion and Edgar Counties, 
                  Illinois
                
              , 913. Gravestone in Wesley Chapel Cemetery near Scottland, 
                Illinois
              .
          
           houses was often twenty-five miles. But "every family
                    was a tavern. A traveller was always sure of a welcome and a fare of cornbread, bacon, and
                        milk."44
        
        Samuel's cattle business had been a success for many years before the land could be used
                    for farming. He knew, however, that the time would come when the black land would be valuable. Much
                    of the money the cattle brought in was put into the purchase and entry of more and more land.
        Meanwhile, Samuel had made many improvements in his home place. Barns were built, more shelters for
                    stock, outhouses, a smokehouse to cure the meat when they butchered a hog or a beef. Better
                    furniture was provided for Rebecca's house, better beds, chests, chairs, and tables to
                    replace the three-legged stools and slab tables they had started with.

        In the winters six of the boys were going to school. In 1837, Billy was eighteen, John seventeen,
                    Calvin, fifteen, and Dave thirteen. The "little boys," Josephus and Franklin, were
                    eight and seven. Andy and Lafayette were still too young for school. The school house was a log
                    cabin with slab benches and puncheon floor. The teachers were paid on the subscription plan, each
                    family paying according to the number of youngsters they sent. They learned reading and ciphering.
                    Spelling was considered important, too, and "writing a good hand." In the summer
                    the boys herded cattle on the prairie and did their full share of work at home.45
        

        Wolf hunts furnished great sport for the youth of the region. Wolves were very destructive to young
                    pigs and chickens, and would sneak up even to the farm yards to kill them. Grown hogs were usually
                    safe enough and could run in the timber and fatten on the wild mast found there. John was one of the
                    leaders in the wolf hunts. He liked to go hunting on old "Rube"—the
                    best horse on the prairie, he said—accompanied by his favorite chum, Abraham Smith. One
                    day they killed ten wolves and shot a great many deer, besides other game including prairie
                        chickens.46
        

        Some kinds of work were fun, too, like butchering time. When hogs were butchered, neighbors would
                    come from 
            
              44 "Horatio Blanchard," History of
                                Edgar County, 
                  Illinois
                .
            
            
              45
              Portrait and Biographical Album of Vermilion and Edgar Counties, 
                  Illinois
                
              , 913ff, 1019ff.
            
              46
              Ibid.
            
          
           miles around to help. The big iron kettles would be brought out
                    into the yard and fires built under them. One would heat water to scald the carcasses to remove the
                    bristles. The other kettle was used for rendering the lard. After being hung up over night to air
                    out, the meat would be cut up into hams and shoulders, sidemeat, heads, and feet. The feet would be
                    pickled, the heads would make "head-cheese," the hams, shoulders, and sidemeat
                    would be salted down in barrels. Each neighbor would be given a generous portion to thank him for
                    his aid. Later, when the meat was sufficiently salted, it would be hung from the rafters of the
                    smoke house over a smudge fire of hickory chips for several days until each piece had a good brown
                        coat.47
        

        One fall morning the hired man, who had gone early to the barn, came running back to the house.
                    "Uncle Sam! There's a man in the well!" Samuel and all the big boys
                    rushed out. A new well was being dug in the back yard. It had gone down about twenty feet but they
                    had not struck water yet. A wide board had been laid over the hole to keep animals from falling in,
                    in the night. When Samuel stooped over to look into the well, he was surprised to see, sitting on
                    the muddy bottom, a supposedly respectable neighbor. Beside him lay one of the hickory-smoked hams.
                    The boys crowded round to see. "Why, it's Mr. N—!" one of
                    them said. Samuel straightened up and said calmly to the hired man, "Get a ladder,
                    Alex." The ladder was brought and lowered. "Come on up, Mr.
                    N—," Samuel said. Mr. N— slowly climbed to the surface.
                    "But, Mr. N—" Samuel said quietly, "You've
                    forgotten your ham. Go down again and get it." Mr. N—cast a wild glance out
                    across the meadow and then back at the circle of grave-faced boys. Then he slowly backed down the
                    ladder again and came up even more slowly with the ham, which he laid down on the edge of the well.
                    "Pick it up, Mr. N—," Samuel said, "That's what you
                    came here for." Nobody said anything more as the miserable little man walked across the
                    yard and through the gate and down the meadow slope toward his home. That was the last anyone in
                    this region ever saw of Mr. N. They heard he had gone farther West.48
        
        
          
            47 Reminiscences of Samuel Scott, Jr, 1866-1950.
          
            48
            Ibid. Told to Samuel Scott, Jr. by his father Josephus Scott, remembering his
                        own childhood.
        
        

        On December 15, 1837, the eight boys received a wonderful early Christmas gift—a baby
                    sister. Her lovely name, Sarena, seems fitting for a dark-eyed little girl with eight adoring big
                    brothers. When she was six years old the last brother, Isaac, was born. So Sarena had nine brothers
                    like a princess in a fairy tale.49
        
        As time went on, Samuel turned his attention to the drainage projects on the wide acres he now owned.
                    But these laborious projects were very slowly achieved. The prairie grass was very rank. Its thickly
                    clustered roots held the water and the high growth of the grass kept out the sun.

        First the settlers put in three-inch tile, which proved worthless. They drove oxen to make
                    "under ditches," and later put in eighteen and twenty-inch tile, which helped
                    some, but the land was never really fit for plowing until the dredge ditches were put in. In 1849 a
                    neighbor, Shepherd B. Smith, at nineteen, operated a ditching-machine. "I've
                    been all over the country," an old settler said, "and this is the best in the
                    world… since we got it ditched."50
        

        Andrew Scott remembered breaking prairie in the late forties, when he was fifteen or sixteen years
                    old. He drove five yoke of oxen, later plowing with one yoke with a wooden, moldboard plow, and
                    harrowing with a wooden harrow.51
        
        Four of his father's oxen were named Tom, Jerry, Buck, and Berry.52
                    Perhaps two others were named Bright and Ben. Everybody's oxen bore the same names. There
                    was something about an ox that made you want to name him with a B. They said you could tell if your
                    oxen were moving or not by setting a hazel switch, or a goad, upright in the ground and then from a
                    few paces away, sighting along the horns of the leader of the first team. They were very slow but
                    they had magnificent strength.

        Slowly with long hard work on the part of every member of the family, all of Samuel's land
                    was brought into cultivation, 
            
              49 Gravestone of Sarena Scott Dicken in Wesley Chapel Cemetery, near
                            Scottland, 
                Illinois
              ; James Loop's reminiscences as told to Marie Runge,
                            "Metcalf, Hume, and Scottland," 
                Terre Haute
              
              Sudsy Tribune and Sunday Star, November 9, 1941.
            
              50 "Abraham Smith," History of Edgar
                                County, 
                  Illinois
                ; James Loop's reminiscences as told to Marie Runge,
                            "Metcalf, Hume, and Scottland," 
                Terre Haute
              
              Sunday Tribune and Sunday Star, November 9, 1941.
            
              51
              Portrait and Biographical Album of Vermilion and Edgar Counties, 
                  Illinois
                
              , 913ff.
            
              52 Reminiscences of Samuel Scott, Jr. (1866-1950).
          
           with the exception of some stretches of meadow and woodland for
                    grazing.
        Then, all at once it may have seemed to Rebecca, the boys were growing up and leaving home. They
                    worked for their father until they came of age, and then in a year or two, each one married and set
                    up for himself. William and John were both married in 1843. William bought and entered land in 
            Prairie
           Township, as his father had done, and became in time the owner of a thousand acres.
                    When the 
            Indianapolis, Decatur
          , and 
            Springfield

           Railroad went through in 1872, William gave the right of way from his farm, besides
                    half the townsite of Scottland, which he had had plotted there and which he named for his father.53
        

        John made a specialty of feeding cattle and swine and later furnished large numbers of horses and
                    mules to be used in the government service.54 David and Calvin pushed on farther
                    West, out to Jackson County, 
            Iowa
          , where both married and where Calvin settled permanently.55
        
        At twenty-four Josephus married Eveline Wood, a pretty dark-haired, rosy-cheeked girl of fifteen. All
                    of her children were to inherit her dark good looks. She was making her home with her older sister
                    Florella and her husband, Benjamin 
            Franklin
           Light. All her nieces and nephews remembered "Aunt Frilly" with warm
                    affection. Frilly's little son Charles was then four years old.
        They were living in the old Light homestead, erected in 1840 by 
            Franklin
          's father, David Light, on 176 acres in Brouillett Township, adjoining 
            Prairie

          . It was a very large, two-story house, with a wide double porch across both stories. It
                    had eight rooms and a leanto kitchen, plenty of room for the many guests of the friendly people who
                    lived there. Eveline's wedding took place on May 30, 1853.56 David
                    Light, himself, in his capacity of Justice of the Peace, married the young couple, and his wife
                    Harriet was a witness. 
            
              53
              Portrait and Biographical Album of Vermilion and Edgar Counties, 
                  Illinois
                
              , 1067ff, 1019ff
            
              54
              Ibid., 1019ff.
            
              55 "David Scott," ibid. Also,
                            manuscript reminiscences of John Leonard Scott, son of Calvin, in Purl A. Scott Collection
                            of family papers.
            
              56 A photograph of this house still exists in the possession of the
                            son of Charles Light. The writer saw the old house in 1908. The house was later torn down.
                            Marriage Certificate of Josephus Scott and Eveline Wood in the writer's
                            collection of family papers.
          
           The red roses are still bright on the decorative certificate
                    that attests these happy facts.
        Josephus and his wife lived near Samuel and Rebecca for about ten years. Then they moved to their own
                    farm, on the main-traveled road between 
            Paris
          , the county seat, and 
            Chicago
          . In 1856, 
            Chicago
           covered eighteen square miles and, as one writer remarked, was "trying to pull
                    itself out of the mud." After the panic of 1857, it was still described in 1860 as
                    "one of the shabbiest and most unattractive of cities."
        The young couple, however, were wholly absorbed in their own affairs. The big log house they now
                    lived in had been erected about 1838, and until about 1860 had been a tavern, the "Half-Way
                    House" between 
            Paris
           and 
            Danville
           and sometimes called by that name.57 The proprietor was
                    "Bobby" Nuckles, whose fame as a genial host lasted for years afterwards. The
                    house faced east and like many taverns of the period, it had a porch, a very large general room with
                    a great fireplace, and three very small bedrooms opening off to the left. One of these was made by
                    enclosing the south end of the porch. The staircase in the northwest corner of the large room rose
                    to two very large, half-story bedrooms covering the main part of the house. One of these had
                    "accommodated" lady guests; the other, gentlemen.

        The house could take care of a good many persons quite adequately, according to the standards of the
                    time. When they moved to this house, there were already six in Josephus' and
                    Eveline's family. Two daughters, Luellen and Henrietta, called Ellie and Ettie, had been
                    born in 1857 and 1860; William, the first son in 1862; and Josephus, Jr., called
                    "Seph" for short, on December 19, 1863. In the little bedroom at the end of the
                    porch, Samuel was born on April 19, 1866.58 Martha Rebecca,
                    "Mattie," arrived in 1868, and young Eveline rounded out the family in 1870.
        Meanwhile, "Uncle Andy" had married in 1857, leaving Grandmother Rebecca and
                    Grandfather Samuel with only four of their brood at home. 
            Lafayette
           was twenty-one years old, Sarena was twenty. By 1860 both had married. 
            
              57 "History of War Tavern," Chrisman Courier. The date was not noted on the clipping.
            
              58 Gravestones in Woodland Cemetery, Chrisman, 
                Illinois
              .
          
           In 1862, 
            Franklin
           enlisted in Company D of the Seventy-ninth Infantry of the 
            Illinois
           Volunteers and served until June 24, 1865.59
        
        
          
            Lafayette
          , too, served in the Civil War and was a prisoner at Fort Anderson. In 1859 he had
                    married Lucy Clark. Home from the war he settled down to the business of stock raising. Late in
                    January of 1867 he started on the long journey by rail and river to take forty-five head of mules to 
            Memphis
          .60 He took with him his favorite horse, a cinnamon bay, to ride
                    home on the return trip.
        On the way 
            Lafayette
           was taken ill, had a doctor at Cairo, 
            Illinois
          , and in "three and three-fourths days" felt sufficiently recovered to
                    continue his journey on the steamer "Commonwealth." He died on January 26, just as
                    the boat landed at 
            Memphis
          .

        The facts of the return journey could not be more starkly set down than in the few words written on
                    the receipt of the Adams Express Company, dated January 29, 1867 at Cairo: "One corpse, 1
                    sack, 1 C-Bay—Saddle, Bridle and Bu[shel] otes. Marked L. Scott."61
        

        Isaac had married in 1866. He was the youngest member of the family and Rebecca and Samuel were left
                    alone. Rebecca was sixty-three, Samuel ten years older. Rebecca had done all her own housework. She
                    had helped in outdoor work when necessary. Her sons said that she had frequently cooked for twelve
                    or fifteen extra men. She had sent out into the world to live useful lives, nine
                    good sons and a daughter "skilled in all housewifely duties."62 Four grandsons were named Samuel Scott. There were several Rebeccas. Living among her
                    married children and her grandchildren, Rebecca still had a keen zest for life.

        Meanwhile, through the years, contact had not been completely lost with Rebecca's old home
                    in Jackson County, 
            
              59 Marriage dates from Portrait and Biographical Album of
                                Vermilion and Edgar Counties, 
                  Illinois

                . They are listed under the Scott names. Sarena married William C.
                            Dicken. "List of Company D of the 79th Infantry," History of
                                Edgar County, 
                  Illinois
                . Also, grave marker in Wesley Chapel Cemetery.
            
              60 "
                Lafayette
               Scott," History of Edgar County, 
                  Illinois
                .
            
            
              61 Paper in the settlement of the estate of 
                Lafayette
               Scott, File 271, County Clerk's Office, Edgar County Courthouse,
                                    
                Paris, Illinois
              .
            
              62
              Portrait and Biographical Album of Vermilion and Edgar Counties, 
                  Illinois
                
              , 913 ff, 1006 ff.
          
           Indiana. Early in the 1850's three charming guests
                    had arrived at the log house in the woods where Rebecca and Samuel still lived—three
                    young people riding on horseback all the way from Indiana, Jackson, James, and Nancy Tabor, the
                    three children of Rebecca's older brother Jesse. They were emigrating, they said, to 
            Iowa
          . After a week with Aunt Rebecca and Uncle Sam, they went on to Vermilion County, 
            Illinois
          , to visit their Uncle Isaac Tabor, Rebecca's younger brother, who had come
                    to 
            Illinois
           earlier to settle near his sister. Then the three travelers went on to 
            Iowa
           to see their cousin, Calvin. James Tabor settled permanently in 
            Iowa

          , but Jack later returned to Indiana. About Nancy it has been impossible to find any
                    other information after this one vivid picture of the young girl with her brothers on their
                    light-hearted journey.63
        

        In the spring of 1861 another pretty niece came to stay for a few months—young Mary Jane
                    Tabor, one of the three orphaned daughters of Rebecca's younger brother Martin. She was
                    married to Dennis Sayre, a young auctioneer, late that same spring.64
        

        In every Scott house the old hospitality still prevailed At Half-Way House in winter the bedrooms
                    were always cold so the children had to undress and dress before the fire downstairs. The bedrooms
                    were lighted only by tallow candle stubs stuck by a few drops of wax on the window sills. But there
                    was always room to tuck away another child. Blankets would be brought from the press, pallets would
                    be spread on the floor and "You can roll up your clothes for a pillow." On several
                    occasions, orphaned nieces and nephews of Josephus and Eveline came to visit and remained to grow
                        up.65
        

        It was one of these young nephews who phrased what might well be considered the motto of Scott men
                    generally. Called from play and sent to buy forgotten molasses, because Aunt Eveline would not eat
                    her mush without it, he fired from the door, a parting shot: "Whatever Ma craves,
                    she's got to have." Five years earlier in 
            England
          , in his "Essay 
            
              63 Reminiscences of Samuel Tabor, son of Isaac Tabor, preserved in a
                            letter from John Leonard Scott to Ira R. Tabor in 1918. Copy in Collection of Purl A. Scott.
            
              64 "
                Israel
               D. Sayre," History of Edgar County, 
                  Illinois
                .
            
            
              65 Reminiscences of Samuel Scott, Jr. 1866-1950.
          
           on the Subjection of Women," John Stuart Mill had
                    solemnly declared: "Women are those to whom nothing but servitude is allowed," and
                    "equality of rights would abate this artifical self-abnegation." Perhaps young
                    Purl Wood would have put his own interpretation upon these ringing words.

        Josephus, Sr., like his father, engaged in buying, feeding, and selling cattle. He was remembered by
                    his children for his habit of crossing his left foot on his right knee and
                    "figuring" on the high rubber boots he nearly always wore. He cut new pencils into
                    two-inch stubs for his "figuring," and he always had the extras in his pocket to
                    fish out for children who were then invited to write their names, "and let me see how well
                    you can do it."66
        
        The baby daughter remembered, nearly eighty years later, how her father would come back from selling
                    his cattle, with his saddlebags full of silver because he distrusted banks and did not like
                    "greenbacks." He would sit by the fire counting his money and she would watch him.
                    When he came to an occasional gold piece he would say, "Catch it, Baby!" and she
                    would catch it in her pinafore. She had a little hoard of gold pieces hidden under a loose brick
                    beside the fireplace.

        Rebecca and Samuel had four years of quiet contentment among their children. In 1868, William had
                    erected on his own land "a magnificent brick residence at a cost of
                    $12,000," a large sum for those days. But his wife Elizabeth (Legate) did not
                    live long to enjoy it. She died on September 28, 1869. The next year on October 20, 1870, William
                    married a second wife, Ada (Burr) Jaquith, a widow.67
        
        It was on a visit to William and Ada just before Christmas that year that Samuel died. He was
                    seventy-seven years old. On November 23, he had made his will, appointing "my two sons
                    William Scott and Josephus Scott of the County of Edgar and the State of 
            Illinois
           Executors to settle my Estate."68
        

        Turning over the dusty papers in the file on the settlement of this estate, one can get a picture of
                    the rugged simplicity of life in the log cabin where Samuel and Rebecca 
            
              66
              Ibid.
            
            
              67 "William Scott," History of Edgar
                                County, 
                  Illinois
                .
            
            
              68 Will Book, 1870, Edgar County Courthouse Records,
                                    
                Paris, Illinois
              .
          
           had their last home together. His sons would build their fine
                    brick houses, but to Samuel the old way of life sufficed. His personal goods and chattels,
                    "all taken by the widow" included: "Necessary Beds, Bedsteads and
                    Bedding, Necessary Household and Kitchen furniture, One spinning wheel, One loom and its appendages,
                    One pair cards, One stove and necessary pipe there for, One horse, One woman's saddle and
                    Bridle, Milch cow, Provisions for one year, 4 sheep and Fleeces (2 for each member of family), Food
                    for the above stock for 6 mo., Fuel for 3 mo., A, lot of Quilts and comforts, Press and contents,
                    Bureau, Lot of Rug Carpet about 20 yds., 1 General Atlas, 1/2 doz. Kitchen Chairs, 1 safe, 1 lounge,
                    1 Kitchen Table and cover, 1 lamp and 3 woolen comforts, Light and Stand, 1 pair of mules."
                    But Samuel's hunger for "good black land" had been satisfied. He left
                    thirty-five hundred acres in Edgar County—"as good land as ever lay
                    outdoors"—besides nearly a thousand acres in 
            Kansas
          .69
        

        Another memorial, too, he left in the hearts of the early settlers of Edgar County. They said of him:
                    "Many another man owes his start in life to Uncle Sammie's generosity and
                    forebearance. He never pushed anyone in money matters and was always anxious to assist those who
                    would try to help themselves. He had a large and generous heart and that high sense of honor which
                    prevented him from ever defrauding any man and which ever inclined him to assist those less
                    fortunate than himself."70
        
        
          
            69 Papers in the settlement of the Estate of Samuel Scott, File 271, Edgar
                        County, 
              Illinois
            .
          
            70
            Portrait and Biographical Album of Vermilion and Edgar Counties, 
                Illinois
              
            , 913ff, 1067ff.
        
      
      
      
        Query 138
        Wanted: Data on the ancestors and descendants of David Floyd and Nancy (Greggs) Floyd who were
                    married in 
            Harrison County
          , Indiana, November 24, 1817, by Temple Byrns, JPHC.
        Albert R. Floyd
        352 North Main Street
        Tooele, 
            Utah
          
        
      
    
  
