
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 5, Issue 1, pages 1-48. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:5+issue:1+year:1909&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            VINCENTNES' FIRST CITY GOVERNMENT.
            [The following document sent in from 
                        Vincennes
                     by Mr. Logan Esarey is of interest not only as a record of one of the earliest town
                    organizations in Indiana, but for several specific points. It illustrates fully the form of town
                    organization and methods of business. Members of the. Board of Trustees absent from meetings seem to
                    have been rigorously fined in amounts varying from twenty-five cents to a dollar. It is interesting
                    also to notice that regulations concerning negro slaves were matters of importance in 
                        Vincennes
                    .–EDITOR.]
            PROCEEDINGS OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE "BOROUGH OF VIN-CENNES" FROM AND AFTER 1ST
                    MONDAY IN FEBRUARY, 1815.
            1st Monday in February 1815.
            AGREEABLY to a charter passed and approved 6th Sept. 1814 by the Legislature of Indiana, for
                    incorporating the "Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     &c and in consequence of an advertisement appearing in the "Western
                    Sun" for an election to take place at the Court-house on the above mentioned day to elect
                    nine fit persons to act as trustees for twelve months in said Borough, the Citizens met as
                    aforesaid, and appointed F. Graeter & Joseph Oneille to act as Judges and James G. Read
                    & David Ruby to act as Clerks to Sd. Election. When after being duly sworn to swear
                    &c proceeded to the election. When upon counting the ballots (the poles being closed at 4 O,
                    Clock P. M.) the following persons were elected as follows——Jacob Kuykendall,
                    John D. Hay, -Samuel Thorn, Henry Ruble, Christian Graeter, Elias Mc-Namee, Benj. I. Harrison, Mark
                    Barnett & Wilson Lagow. & whereupon, each of the Sd. Trustees, reed, the following
                    certificate.
            We the undersigned, after being duly sworn, as Judges do certify that an Election held at the
                    Court-house in the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    , in Indiana Territory on the First Monday in February 1815, for the election of
                    Trustees for said Borough agreeable  able to an act of the
                    Legislature of said Territory–apd. Sept. 6th 1814. The following Trustees were duly
                    elected.
            
               
                  Wilson Lagow
                  Henry Ruble
               
               
                  Jacob Kuykendall
                  C. Graeter
               
               
                  J. D. Hay
                  Elias Mcnamee
               
               
                  Saml. Thorn
                  Benj. L. Harrison
               
               
                  Mark Barnette
                   
               
            
            
               
                  Jsh. Oneille F. Graeter}
                  Judges of the Election.
               
            
            A Copy Test.
            
               
                  James G. Read David Ruby }
                  Clerks
               
            
            The original of the foregoing is now filed in the hands of the clerk–as also a state of
                    the poles, it being unnecessary to give them a place in this Journal they are now ready for
                    inspection——and also the Charter.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     I. T. Feby. 8th 1815.
            A meeting of the Trustees (Wilson Lagow, excepted, he being absent) was this day attended by eight
                    when the following Oath was administered
            "You and each of you, do swear or affirm that you will diligently and faithfully discharge
                    the duties of Trustees of the "Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    " according to the best of your understanding, so help you God."
            They then proceeded to business, Benj. I. Harrison was unanimously elected as Clerk to the board for
                    the ensuing twelve months, and Jno. D. Hay was appointed to act as Chairman– Pro-tem, who
                    was requested to take the Chair.
            The Clerk (by request) of the Chairman, read the laws of the Corporation.
            A motion was made & seconded that a Committee of Jacob Kuykendall, Christian Graeter, Benj.
                    I. Harrison, E. McNamee, & Saml. Thorn be and they are hereby appointed, to draught
                    Bye-laws, rules & regulations for the good government of this Town.
            It was moved & seconded, that Jno. D. Hay is also to be one of the Committee.
            
            A motion was made & seconded, that a Committee of Benj. I. Harrison & Henry Ruble be
                    and are hereby appointed to draught Bye-laws, &c for the mode of transacting business by
                    this board, & have it ready for next meeting.
            A Committee of Benj. I Harrison and Christian Graeter were appointed to draught a subscription, for
                    the purpose of raising funds for the purchase of ground to build a MARKET HOUSE on, and should said
                    Committee get Two Hundred & fifty Dollars (or more) subscribed they are hereby empowered to
                    purchase of Pierre Boneau & wife the Lot of ground opposite Christian Graeter's at
                    Five Hundred Dollars, for the use of the Corporation——and make report at the
                    next stated meeting.
            This meeting is adjourned until Saturday 11th next at 3 O, C. P. M.
            B. I. HARRISON, Secretary. JNO. D. HAY, Chairman protem.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     I. T. Feby. 11th 1815.
            The board of trustees met according to adjournment.
            The Committee of Benj. I. Harrison & Henry Ruble, made a report, as respects the Bye-laws of
                    this Board, which were read and adopted as corrected.
            A motion was made & seconded that the sum of. two Dollars be allowed to Benj. I. Harrison for
                    Books purchased for this Board; and he is hereby allowed the sum of Fifty cents for each meeting of
                    the Trustees, for acting as Clerk.
            It was moved & seconded that as Benja. I. Harrison & Christian Graeter had raised
                    upward of $250. by subscription they are hereby empowered by this board, to enter into
                    writings with Pierre Boneau for the purchase of his Lot opposite Graeter's at the price
                    agreed upon $500. and make report at the next meeting. And that Jacob Kuykendall is
                    appointed also to be one of this Committee.
            This meeting is adjourned.
            B. I. HARRISON, Secty. Jno. D. Hay Chm.
                    protem.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     March 27th 1815.
            The Board of Trustees for the borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     met at the request of the Chairman pro-tem, when present J. D. Hay  Chm. pro-tem, J. Kuykendall, E. McNamee, H. Ruble, Saml. Thorn, C.
                    Graeter, B. I. Harrison Clk.
            The board then proceeded to the Election of a Chairman, when Frederick Graeter Esqr. was declared
                    unanimously elected.
            He was then conducted to the chair there being no officer to be found to administer the Oath of
                    Office, the Board adjourned to meet on Wednesday next at 9 O, Clock A. M.
            B. I. HARRISON Clerk F. GRAETER Chm.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     March 29th "15
            The Board of Trustees for the borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     met according to adjournment, when present Fredk. Graeter Esq. Chm., Jacob Kuykendall,
                    Jno. D. Hay, Mark Barnett, C. Graeter, E. McNamee, B. I. Harrison Clerk.
            That as Mr. Chairman had been sworn in, it was moved and seconded that the Oath be
                    recorded–as follows.
            "Indiana Territory
            "
                        Knox County
                    
            
            "Be it remembered that on the 28th day of March, 1815 I ad-"ministered to Mr.
                    Frederick Graeter the Oath of chairman of "the Board of Trustees for the Town of 
                        Vincennes
                    –In testimony "whereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal the day
                    and date "above written
            E. STOUT J. P. K. C. Seal.
            It was moved and seconded that a committee of Jacob Kuykendall, J. D. Hay E. McNamee be and are
                    hereby appointed to examine the situation of the Town Lots, &c and make report at the next
                    meeting of this Board.
            The object of the above motion is to have each and every one of sd. Town-Lots numbered, beginning at
                    the upper or the lower end of said Town.
            A motion was made & seconded that a committee of B. I. Harrison be appointed to write to 
                        Louisville
                     for a Copy of the Bye-Laws of that place and make report at the next meeting of this
                    Board.
            Henry I. Mills was elected as Town Constable, by this Board for this term in office, viz. (until next
                    February).
            This board is now adjourned.
            B. I. HARRISON Clerk FREDK. GRAETER
                    Chairman.
            
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     I. T. May 3rd 1815.
            The board of Trustees for the borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     met this day, when present. Fredk. Graeter Esqr. Chm., Jacob Kuykendall, Jno. D. Hay,
                    Christian Graeter, E. McNamee, Wilson Lago, Saml. Thorn, Henry Ruble, M. Barnett & B. I.
                    Harrison Clk.
            Wilson Lago being sworn in according to Law this day took his seat as one of this board.
            The Committee appointed at the last meeting of this board of J. Kuykendall, J. D. Hay & E.
                    McNamee made a report in part and are allowed a longer time to finish their undertaking.
            The Committee of B. I. Harrison as also appointed at the last meeting made a report which was
                    satisfactory.
            It is ordered that a Committee of E. McNamee be appointed to draught the following bye laws and make
                    report at the next meeting of this board viz.
            A law imposing a tax on lots & other property within the borough of this Town, also, a law
                    for the imposing of a Tax or fine on all free persons for drunkenness, running Horses, in the
                    streets and other improper conduct. And also, a law for the punishment of negroes & servants
                    for improper conduct. Lastly, a law imposing fines on owners or holders of Lots for suffering
                    Nuisances to remain before their Lots to the injury of the Citizens.
            Ordered, that Jno. D. Hay be and is considered as another of this Committee to the second Law.
            Ordered, that the above Committee as soon as said Laws are drafted do call on the Chairman of this
                    board & with him appoint an extra meeting and give notice thereof to the rest of the board.
            Ordered, that a Committee of Saml. Thorn & Jno. D. Hay be appointed to contract for materials
                    for the purpose of building a market house, of the following dimensions 16 by 48 feet, one story
                    high, the pillows of Brick at equal distances of 8 ft. and to be covered with cypress shingles,
                    & report of the expense to the next or future meeting of the Materials.
            This meeting is now adjourned.
            B. I. HARRISON Secty. FREDK. GRAETER
                    Chairman.
            
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     May 13th 1815.
            The Trustees for the "borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    " met this day, when present, Fredk. Graeter, esqr. Chm., Henry Ruble, Mark
                    Barnett, J. Kuykendall, C. Graeter, Saml. Thorn & B. I. Harrison Clk.
            It is moved and seconded that as this meeting was called for the express purpose of attending to the
                    Committee of E. Mc-Namee & Jno. D. Hay (appointed at the last meeting) one of which being
                    indisposed it is adjourned until Monday next at 9 0, Clock.
            B. I. HARRISON Clerk F. GRAETER Chairman.
            The Board of Trustees for the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     met this day according to adjournment being Monday 15th May 1815. when present Fredk.
                    Graeter esqr. Chm., Jno. D. Hay, C. Mc-Namee, C. Graeter, Wilson Lago, Henry Ruble, Saml. Thorn,
                    Mark Barnett & B. I. Harrison Clk.
            The Committee of E. McNamee appointed for the purpose of making laws, &c, do make the
                    following report, which were passed after some amendments.
            ORDINANCE, N. IV.
            FOR LEVYING AND COLLECTING TAXES WITHIN THE BOROUGH OF VINCENNES.
            Sec. 1st. Be it ordained by the Trustees of the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     in Council assembled and it is hereby ordained that a Tax of one and a half per cent,
                    per annum, be laid on the valuation of.each and every lot, half and other less parts of Lots, within
                    the same.
            2nd. Be it further ordained That the valuation of lots shall be made and ascertained as herein after
                    prescribed.
            The assessor shall immediately after the first day of June and shall thereafter annually proceed to
                    number the Town Lots on a general plat of the same, beginning on the River
                    Wabash adjoining the Church Lands, and making two fair lists of the number of Lots and
                    their owners names as far as it can be ascertained——one of which lists shall
                    be deposited with the Clerk of the Board, and the other for his own use as collector.
            
            3rd. And be it further ordained that
            All Lots, the owners of which do not reside in this borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    , as well as all those lots, whose owners are unknown, shall be marked and designated,
                    as the lots of non-residents, and shall be subject to the same rates of Taxation, as the lots of
                    resident Citizens of 
                        Vincennes
                    , and the assessor shall to the best of his judgment, set down the valuation of each Lot
                    opposite the owners name, where this can be ascertained, and where it cannot opposite to the number
                    of such Lot. And be it further ordained that it shall be the duty of the assessor when assessing the
                    Town Lots, to take a correct list of the names of all free male inhabitants, Twenty one years old
                    and upwards, residing in the borough, and the Collector shall collect from each and every one of
                    said inhabitants an head Tax of Fifty cents.
            Sec. 4. And be it further ordained that
            The Town Collector shall on the 1st day of July 1815 annually hereafter begin to demand and collect
                    the aforesaid Taxes——And, if any Lot-Holder or Renter of a Lot, refuse or
                    neglect to pay the amount of his, her or their taxes so demanded, the Collector shall proceed to
                    levy an execution on the goods and chattels of the person so neglecting or refusing, and advertise
                    said goods and chattels, in three of the most public places for twenty days previous to the sale
                    thereof.——
            5th. And be it further ordained, that,
            Where no personal property can be found whereon to levy for said taxes, it shall be the duty of the
                    Collector, to levy and collect the Tax so in arrears by sale, at the Court House in said borough of
                    the Lot or Lots, for which the Tax shall be in arrear, or so much thereof, as will bring the tax due
                    thereon, to be laid out in the form of a square or Parallelogram in some corner of said lot, to be
                    designated by the Collector at the time of sale.
            6th And further ordained be it, that it shall be the duty of the Collector, to give notice of the
                    time & place of the sale of Lots, for the Non-payment of the Taxes due thereon by
                    advertising the same for Twenty days previous to the sale, in some public Newspaper printed in the
                    borough, if one should be printed therein at the time, and if not by Manuscript advertisements, at
                    three of the most public places in the Borough.
            
            7th And be it further ordained that it shall be the duty of the Collector, to give notice to one of
                    the Justices, assigned to keep the peace in the said borough, to attend the sale of Lots for the
                    Non-payment of Taxes and it shall be the duty of said Justices, to superintend said sales and
                    prevent any fraud or collusion in the same. And the said Justices shall receive One Dollar and fifty
                    cents for each days attendance, to be levied on the Lots sold.
            And be it further ordained that
            No Collector shall directly or indirectly purchase any Lots sold by him for Taxes due thereon, under
                    the penalty of One Hundred Dollars, to be recovered for the use of the
                    Borough——And the Collector shall within Ten days after the sale of any Lot or
                    Lots make returns thereof to the Clerk of the Board who shall record the same in which return the
                    Collector shall particularly state the Lot or Lots sold, and to whom, with the numbers of sd. Lots
                    and the owners names, and that of the Justice who attended, and the expense of the sale.
            Sec. 8 And be it further ordained, That it shall be the duty of the Collector, to give the purchaser
                    a Deed for any Lots by him sold for the Non-payment of Taxes, which Deed shall be witnessed by the
                    Justice attending such sales, and shall be made out in the names and form prescribed by the law of
                    this Territory, in such cases made and provided.
            9th And, be it further ordained, That in cases where the name of the Owner or Owners of Lots, cannot
                    be ascertained, it shall be lawful for the assessor to assess the Lots without prefixing the owners
                    names, but, he shall clearly designate the number of such Lots, and the street or streets by which
                    each Lots are bounded, and the Collector shall in like manner when making his Deed to the
                    purchasers, designate and describe the Lot, by giving the owner's name if it can be
                    ascertained——and if otherwise, its number in the general platte of the Town
                    with the street or streets by which it is bounded.——
            And be it further ordained that, in all cases of the sale of Lots, or part of Lots for the
                    Non-payment of Taxes due thereon to the Borough, all the Title which any person or persons had, or
                    could have to said Lots or parts of Lots at the time of such sale, shall  be absolutely transferred to the purchaser by the Deed of the
                    Collector, subject however, to be redeemed within One year after the sd. sale, agreeably to an act
                    of the Territorial–Legislature "Entitled, an act to allow owners of Town Lots,
                    to redeem the "same when they shall be sold for Taxes——And be it
                    further ordained, that Any person wanting to redeem any Lot sold for Taxes shall pay the purchaser,
                    the amount of the Tax and Costs together with one hundred p. Centum thereon; and shall have such
                    redemption entered on the Books of the Board, by the Clerk of the same, which shall be a release of
                    all claim of the purchaser.
            10th And, be it further ordained, That the Collector shall be bound to pay over to the Treasurer,
                    once every week– all monies by him received or collected for the Borough.
            And be it further ordained that the fees afterwards to be allowed to him by the board shall be the
                    same as are allowed by the Laws of this Territory to the County-Sheriff or Collector for the
                    collection of Taxes——And, the Fees of the Assessor shall be the same as are
                    allowed by Laws of the Territory to County or Township–Assessors or Listers.
            11th And be it further ordained, that The Assessors and Collectors shall take the following Oaths
                    previous to entering on the Duties of their respective offices——To wit.
            ASSESSORS OATH
            I A. B. do solemnly swear that I will truly & without partiality or prejudice, to the best of
                    my abilities estimate and assess the value of all the Lots in the borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    –and, that I will faithfully discharge all of the duties prescribed to me as
                    assessor, by the ordinance of the Board of Trustees–So help me GOD.
            COLLECTOR'S OATH.
            I A. B. do solemnly swear that I will faithfully discharge all the duties enjoined on me as
                    collector, by the ordinance for levying & collecting Taxes to the best of my knowledge and
                    abilities –So help me GOD.
            
            N. III. ORDINANCE, RESPECTING NUISANCES.
            SEC 1st BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TRUSTEES OF THE BOROUGH OF VINCENNES, and it is
                    hereby ordained that a fine not exceeding Five Dollars nor less than three be imposed on any person
                    or persons who shall, cast any dead carcass, garbage, nauseous liquors or other offensive matter on
                    any street, lane, or alley, or on any Lot within the limits of this Borough, or so near thereto -as
                    to annoy the inhabitants in the neighborhood thereof.
            Sec. II And be it further ordained, That if any person shall place any barrels, boxes, Crates, any
                    firewood, or timber of any kind, any Brick, stone or earth in the streets so as to obstruct the free
                    passage thereof, and suffer the same so to remain for 10 hours, every person or persons so offending
                    shall pay for every such offence the sum of two dollars.
            Sec. 3 And be it further ordained, that it shall be the duty of the street Commissioners to remove,
                    or cause to be removed all nuisances from the streets, it shall be their duty to give such persons
                    so causing the nuisance, or person or persons owning such Lot or Lots whereon such nuisance may be
                    found or facing the streets where such nuisance or Obstruction may have been thrown, notice to
                    remove. the same: and if the person so notified shall neglect or refuse to remove or cause to be
                    removed such nuisance or obstruction in 24 hours after such notice then the street Commissioners
                    shall direct the Town Constable to have the same removed at the expense of the person, or persons
                    neglecting, or refusing, which expense and costs of suit, shall be reasonable before any Justice of
                    the peace in said Borough.
            AN ORDINANCE RESPECTING FINE AND PROSECUTION.
            And be it ordained by the trustees of the borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     in Council assembled & it has hereby ordained That it shall in all cases, be
                    the duty of any officer, or other person prosecuting or informing against any person for Offences
                    committed against any of the ordinances of this Borough to do the same within ten days after the
                    Commission of such Offence or Offences.——
            Sec. 7 And be it further ordained, That in all cases where fines are assessed, and the person, or
                    persons fined shall neglect  or refuse to pay such forfeitures,
                    or goods and chattels whereon to levy the same by distress, cannot be found such person or persons
                    shall be committed to the county jail until they pay or give satisfactory security to pay the same.
            This ordinance to have effect from & after the passage thereof.
            FR. GRAETER Chm. B. T. B. I. HARRISON C. B. T.
            NO. I.
            ORDINANCE TO PROVIDE FOR THE LEGAL PROMULGATION OF THE
            ORDINANCES PASSED BY THE TRUSTEES OF THE BOROUGHS OF VINCENNES
            Sec. 1 Be it ordained and enacted, by the Trustees in Council assembled, 'of the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    . "That it shall hereafter be the duty of the Town Clerk after the passage of
                    any ordinance to cause copies of the same to be put up at three of the most public places of the
                    said Borough, and immediately after putting up the three said Copies of the ordinances, to make out
                    an affidavit stating that he had discharged that duty agreeably to the provisions of the sixth
                    Section of the Act of Assembly of this Territory, entitled "An Act to incorporate the
                    Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     passed the 6th September 1814——a Copy of which affidavit shall be
                    deposited with and filed by the Officer administering the Oath, and another copy placed on the
                    minutes of the proceedings of the Council, which said affidavit so as aforesaid filed, shall be held
                    and taken to be at all times as full and sufficient evidence of the promulgation of the ordinances
                    of the corporation of the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     agreeably to the provisions of the before recited. act.
            This ordinance to take effect upon and after the passage there of.
            FR. GRAETER Chm. B. T. B. I. HARRISON Clk.
            ORDINANCE REGULATING SERVANTS AND PEOPLE OF COLOR.
            Sec. 1 Be it ordained by the Trustees of the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     in Council assembled, and it is hereby ordained—That If any slave or
                    servant, shall be found within the Borough (whose Master employer or owner, lives out of the bounds
                    of this Corporation)  without a pass, or some letter or token
                    whereby it may appear, that he or she is proceeding by authority from his or her Master employer or
                    owner, it shall and may be lawfull for any person to apprehend and carry him or her before a Justice
                    of the peace to be by his order punished with stripes not exceeding 35.
            Sec. 2 And be it further ordained—That all Riots, routs, unlawfull assemblies, and
                    seditious speeches by any slave or slaves, servant or servants, or free people of color, within the
                    bounds of this borough shall be punished with stripes at the discretion of a Justice of the peace.
            This ordinance to have effect from and after the passage thereof.
            Attest B. I. HARRISON Clk
            FR. GRAETER Chm. B. T.
            Adjourned until 2 OClock P. M.
            NO. V.
            ORDINANCE
            AN ORDINANCE to prevent riots in the streets or in public houses and prohibiting the galloping of
                    horses &c.
            Sec. 1. Be it ordained by the Trustees of the Borough of Vin-cennes in Council assembled, and it is
                    hereby ordained, That if any person of the age of sixteen years and upwards, shall be found in the
                    streets or in any public house of entertainment within this Borough, Intoxicated and making or
                    exciting any noise contention or disturbance, it shall be lawful for any Justice of the peace on
                    complaint or view thereof to cause such person, or persons to pay a fine of Two dollars with costs
                    of prosecution for every such offence.
            Sec. 2. And be it further ordained, That if any person or persons shall gallop, any Horse, Mare or
                    gelding in any street within this Borough, every person so offending, shall on conviction thereof
                    before any Justice of the peace forfeit and pay the sum of Five dollars with costs. The above
                    ordinance to have effect from and after the passage thereof.
            Enacted into an ordinance 15 May 1815.
            FR. GRAETER Chm. B. T.
            B. I. HARRISON Clk.
            
            VINCENNES' FIRST CITY
                        GOVERNMENT
            
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     May 31 1815.
            The Trustees for the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     met this cay at 2 0, Clock, P. M. when present Frederick Graeter Chairman, B. I.
                    Harrison Clerk, E. McNamee, Ch. Graeter, H. Ruble, /. D. Hay, W. Lago, S. Thorn, Mark Barnett.
            Henry I. Mills being this day sworn in the Office of Town Constable for the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     agreeable to Law, ordered that it be entered on the books of said Borough.
            Ordered that the Clerk of this board do make the following alterations, or amendments to the
                    following Sections
            John Bruner and John Bailey having been sworn in according to Law as street Commissioners, ordered
                    that it be entered upon the books of the Trustees of the Borough.
            Ordered, That Christian Graeter be considered as another of the Committee with Saml. Thorn and John
                    D. Hay (as appointed at a former meeting) to furnish materials for the Market House, and to have
                    them ready by the 15th June, next.
            Ordered, That Ch. Graeter be appointed as a Committee to have the fences of Doct. Kuykendall and Geo.
                    Wallace removed for the market square, to be built upon, which ground was given by said Gentlemen
                    for the use of said market square, and to be removed before the 15th June next.
            It is moved and seconded that E. McNamee and B. I. Harrison be appointed as a Committee to have the
                    Corporation Laws &c printed.
            This meeting is now adjourned.
            B. I. HARRISON Clk.
            Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     June 19th 1815.
            The board of Trustees met, with present Frederick Graeter, Chairman, Wilson Lago, M. Barnett, S.
                    Thorn, E. McNamee, H. Ruble, C. Graeter, and J. D. Hay.
            Ordered, that J. D. Hay be appointed as Clerk pro Tem.
            On motion ordered, That E. McNamee and Fredk. Graeter Esqr. be a Committee to revise and amend the
                    ordinances respecting Sabbath breaking and Taxation, and that they report to the next meeting, and
                    that the said Committee report any amendments which to them may appear necessary in the ordinances
                    generally.
            
            Ordered that Joseph Oneille be appointed as Assessor for the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    , and that he shall take an oath faithfully to discharge the duties of said Office
                    according to the ordinance of the board of Trustees.
            Adjourned until Friday morning next at 9 0, CIock.
            B. I. HARRISON Clerk F. GRAETER Chm.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     June 23rd 1815.
            The Trustees for the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     met this day, when present Fredk. Graeter, Chairman, B. I. Harrison, J. D. Hay, Ch.
                    Graeter, E. McNamee, H. Ruble, W. Lagow.
            It is moved and seconded that as Mr. Chairman was appointed at the last meeting as one of a
                    Committee, that Wilson Lago take the chair.
            The Committee of E. McNamee and F. Graeter Esqr. as appointed at the last meeting made the following
                    reports respecting amendments, alterations, repealing &c of the ordinances passed by this
                    board as follows,
            It is ordered that E. McNamee and F. Graeter is considered as being continued as a committee already
                    appointed for at the last meeting.
            Resolved that B. I. Harrison and H. Ruble as a Committee authorised to borrow a sum not exceeding
                    $400. on the credit of the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     and that the Trustees do bind themselves and their Successors in Office to repay such
                    sums, so borrowed within twelve months therafter, or, so much sooner as funds come into their hands.
            NO. VII
            AN ORDINANCE to prevent the storing of Gunpowder, and of shooting any fire Arms within
                    the limits of the Borough 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            WHEREAS, the keeping of large quantities of gunpowder in Stores and private houses within the limits
                    of this Borough, is pregnant with the most calamitous consequences to the lives and property of its
                    inhabitants whom an accidental fire may plunge at once into irretrievable ruin, And whereas such
                    imprudent and inhuman, if not criminal practice, hitherto unrestrained, ought to  be effectually checked before the misfortunes it is calculated to
                    produce may take place.
            THEREFORE,
            Sec. 1. Be it ordained and enacted by the Trustees of the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     in Council Assembled, and it is hereby ordained That a fine not exceeding Twenty
                    dollars nor less than Ten dollars with costs of prosecution, be imposed on any person, who shall
                    keep in any "house, shop, cellar, Store or other place any greater quantity of Gunpowder
                    than Twenty pounds,
            Sec. 2. And be it further ordained That a fine of Five dollars with costs of prosecution be imposed
                    on any person who shall at any time discharge any fire Arms within the limits of this Borough.
            Sec. 3. And be it further ordained, That this ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from
                    and after the passage thereof
            FR. GRAETER Chm. B. T.
            NO. IX
            AN ORDINANCE respecting the warrant of the Justice of the peace to be issued against offenders of the
                    ordinances of the Trustees of this Borough, and to regulate the amount of fees Chargeable by the
                    said Officers.
            Sec. 1 Be it ordained and enacted by the Trustees of the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     in Council Assembled, and it is hereby ordained That, the following form of warranty,
                    shall be used by the Justice of the peace.
            KNOX COUNTY SCT.
            The Trustees of the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     in said County, To the Town Constable of the same, GREETING.
            WHEREAS Complaint hath been made before me the Subscriber one of the justices of
                    the peace, in and of the said County, upon the oath of A. B.
                    of———as the case may be———that C.
                    D. did on the—— (stating the Offence) contrary to the ordinances of the said
                    Trustees, THESE are therefore in the name of the said Trustees, to will and
                    require you to give notice to the above C. D. to appear before me tomorrow by 10 O, Clock (or  forthwith to answer the above complaint, and to be further dealt
                    withal, according- to Law.
            Given under my hand this——day of——A. D.
            Sec. 2. And be it further Ordained That, the fees to be charged by the Justice of the peace, so
                    acting in the name of the said Trustees, shall be the same as are, or may be at any future time
                    established by law, to be chargeable by the said Justices of the peace within this Territory; and
                    that the Constable shall be entitled to the same fees as are, or may be allowed by law to Constables
                    within the same.
            Sec. 4. And be it further ordained THAT, this ordinance shall take effect, and be in force from and
                    after the passage thereof.
            Fa. GRAETER Chm. B. T.
            Attest B. I. HARRISON Clk.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     I. T. June 30th 1815.
            The Trustees for the "Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    " met this day, when present Fredk. Graeter Esqr., E. McNamee, C. Graeter, J.
                    D. Hay, Saml. Thorn, Henry Ruble, Wilson Lago, & B. I. Harrison Clk.
            B. I. Harrison as one of the Committee appointed at the last meeting, for the purpose of raising a
                    loan of $400 for the building of a Market-house by subscription, reported he had nearly
                    raised that amt.
            Ordered that M. Barnett be fined Fifty cents for his non attendance at the last meeting of this
                    Board, according to the Bye-laws.
            Ordered that Seneca Almy be appointed as an additional Town Constable for this Board.
            B. I. Harrison resigned his office as clerk to this Board, which was accepted.
            Homer Johnston was then elected in his stead, to fill the vacancy.
            Resolved that the following additional rule be made to the Bye-laws for the Government of this Board.
            That the Board hereafter will receive no communication from any Citizen or Citizens, person or
                    persons unless the same is committed to writing.
            
            This meeting is now adjourned until Friday next, 7th July and meet every Friday following, until
                    ordered otherwise, at 9 O. C. in the morning.
            B. I. HARRISON Clerk F. GRAETER Chairman.
            Friday July 14th,. 1815.
            The Trustees for the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     met this day, when present Fredk. Graeter Esqr. Chm., Wilson Lago, C. Graeter, Saml.
                    Thorn, Henry Ruble, B. I. Harrison, Clk.
            Ordered that Mark Barnett, be fined the sum of one Dollar, for his non attendance at the last
                    meeting.
            There appearing no farther business before the Board, it is now adjourned until Friday next at 9
                    O.Clock.
            B. I. HARRISON Clk. F. GRAETER Chm.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     I. T. July 28th 1815.
            The Trustees for the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     met this day, when present Fredk. Graeter esqr. Chm., Wilson Lago, C. Graeter, H.
                    Ruble, S. Thorn, E. McNamee, B. I. Harrison Clk.
            It is ordered that B. I. Harrison be appointed as Treasurer to this Board for their time in office,
                    and that he gives the necessary security according to Law.
            Ordered that Doct. Kuykendall be considered as another added to the committee for attending to the
                    building of the Market-house.
            Resolved that all committees appointed by this board whose duty it has been or may be to contract
                    debts on behalf & for the use of said shall present to the board the accounts of the persons
                    with whom they have contracted in order that such accts. may be adjusted by the sd. board in
                    sessions.
            Ordered E. McNamee & Fredk. Graeter be a Committee to draught Laws fbr the Market-house and
                    make report at a future meeting.
            Resolved that the Treasurer of the board of Trustees of this Borough be & he is hereby
                    required to pay out of any monies in his hands belonging to the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     any account or order passed in the Board of Trustees & signed by the Chairman
                    of the same & he is in no other case to pay out any money for or belonging to said Borough.
            
            Resolved further, that it shall be his duty to keep a fair account of all monies by him reed, for sd.
                    Borough as well as all monies due to or from sd. Borough—& that he be obliged to
                    render an acct. of sd. monies when required thereto.
            Ordered that E. McNamee be fined the sum of fifty cents, for his non attendance at the last meeting.
            This meeting is now adjourned until friday next at 9 O. C.
            B. I. HARRISON Clk. F. GRAETER Chm.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     I. T. August 4th, 1815
            The Trustees for the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     met this dat, when present Fredk. Graeter esq. Chm., Elias McNamee, Saml. Thorn, C.
                    Graeter, Henry Ruble, Mark. Barnett, J. Kuykendall, B. I. Harrison Clk.
            Fredk. Graeter esqr. having been appointed at the last meeting one of a committee and wishing to make
                    report in part, resigned his Chair until that business was finished, therefore ordered, that J.
                    Kuykendall take the chair as Chairman pro-tem.
            Ordered that Mark Barnett be a committee to arrange with Will Lindsay the acct. presented to this
                    board for brick-work done to the Market-house by sd. Lindsay and make a report at the next meeting.
            as the Treasurer reported that he had collected from the different persons a loan subscribed by them
                    for the purpose of Building the Market-house, therefore, Ordered That the following accts. do pass
                    this board and the Treasurer be instructed to pay them
            
               
                  To
                  Benja. Beckes (for brick)
                  $40.00
               
               
                  "
                  Will Millikan (hauling same)
                  6.25
               
               
                  "
                  Will Hendrix (one day's work)
                  .75
               
               
                  "
                  Thos. Bennett hauling 2400 brick
                  12.00
               
               
                  "
                  Jas. White ditto 2400 dp.
                  12.00
               
               
                  "
                  C. Graeter hauling 6 loads sand
                  .75
               
               
                  "
                  Saml. Thorn sundries
                  2.37½
               
               
                  "
                  Charles McClure counting brick
                  1.50
               
               
                   
                  Amtg. To
                  $75.62½
               
            
            
            Ordered that as Seneca Almy was elected by this Board as Town Constable some meetings since &
                    having taken the necessary oath that it be admitted to record as follows—
            INDIANA TERRITORY
            
            BOROUGH OF VINCENNES
            
            Be it known that on this day the 30th June 1815 I administered to Seneca Almy the oath of Town
                    Constable of the board of Trustees for the borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     conformably to order. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my seal the day and
                    year above written.
            To the Clerk B. I. Harrison
            F. GRAETER J. P. K. C.
            esqr. of the Board of Trustees—
                        Vincennes
                    .
            Ordered still farther, That as Benja. I. Harrison resigned his place one or two meetings since as
                    Clerk to this board, and Homer Johnston elected in his stead, and he having refused to accept of sd.
                    appointment, it is considered that sd. Harrison do keep the Clerkship, as it was understood so at
                    the time of his resignation.
            This meeting is now adjourned until Friday next at 9 O'C.
            B. I. HARRISON Clk F. GRAETER Chm.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     I. T. Aug. 11th 1815.
            The Trustees for the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     met this day when present F. Graeter esqr. Chm., M. Barnett, S. Thorn, C. Graeter, H.
                    Ruble, B. I. Harrison Clk.
            The Committee of M. Barnett appointed at the last meeting of the Board, to arrange with Will Lindsay
                    the amt. and inquire into his work done to the Market-house, reported that Mr. Lindsay would agree
                    that he had put up about 6900 brick for which he would take $30 but not less.
            Ordered, that Wilson Lago be fined the sum of one Dollar, for his non attendance at the last meeting
                    of this Board.
            Ordered that as B. I. Harrison had been elected as Treasurer of this Board for their time in office
                    and having given bond with E. McNamee as security for his good performance & taken the
                    necessary Oath, that it be admitted to record, as follows,
            
            "Know all men by these presents, that we B. I. Harrison and "Elias McNamee, both of 
                        Vincennes
                     of the County of 
                        Knox
                     and "Indiana Territory, are held and firmly bound unto the board of
                    "Trustees of the borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     & county aforesaid, in "the just & full sum of Five Hundred
                    Dollars, of good and law-"ful money of the 
                        United States
                    , to be paid to the said Board of "Trustees as aforesaid, or their successors
                    in office; for which "payment to be well and truly made we bind ourselves and each
                    "of us by himself for and in the whole, our heirs, Executors, and "administrators
                    and each, jointly & severally firmly by these "presents—sealed with our
                    seals, and dated at 
                        Vincennes
                    , this "Ninth day of August in the year of OUR LORD, one thousand
                    "eight hundred and fifteen.
            The condition of the above obligation is such, that, whereas the above bounden B. I. Harrison has
                    this day been appointed by the aforesaid Board of Trustees, a Treasurer of the Treasury of the
                    Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     in said County——Now, if the said B. I. Harrison shall and does
                    well and truly execute and discharge the duties of his office, enjoined upon him by the sd. Board of
                    Trustees, as such Treasurer, then the foregoing obligation to be void, or else, to remain in full
                    force and virtue—
            Sealed and delivered in presence of F. Graeter.
            B. I. HARRISON Seal
            E. MCNAMEE Seal
            Indiana Territory 
                        Knox County
                    
            
            Be it known that on the ninth day of August one thousand eight hundred & fifteen, I
                    administered to B. I. Harrison, the oath of Treasurer of the Board of Trustees for the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    —In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand & seal, the day
                    and year above written.
            F. GRAETER J. P. K. C.
            This meeting is now adjourned until Friday next at 9 0, C.
            B. I. HARRISON Clk F. GRAETER Chm.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     I. T. Augt. 18th 1815.
            The Trustees for the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     met this day, when present, F. Graeter esqr. Chm., E. McNamee, H. Ruble, M. Barn-ett,
                    C. Graeter, W. Lago, J. Kuykendall, B. I. Harrison Clk.
            
            Ordered that the acct. as presented to this Board in favor of Will Lindsay for Brick work done to the
                    Market-house of Thirty dollars, be rejected and in lieu thereof, the Treasurer is ordered to pay him
                    Twenty five Dollars, out of the Treasury not otherwise appropriated.
            Ordered that the committee respecting the Market-house, do give the necessary instructions for the
                    building and completing sd. House.
            This meeting is now adjourned until Friday next at 9 O. C. in the morning.
            B. I. HARRISON Clk F. GRAETER Chm.
            Friday, Augt. 25th 1815
            The Trustees of the "Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    " met this day when present Wilson Lago Chm. pro-tern, C. Graeter, J.
                    Kuyken-dall, Saml. Thorn, B. I. Harrison Clk.
            It is ordered that the meeting of every Friday be dispensed with, until further orders.
            This meeting is now adjourned.
            B. I. HARRISON Clk. F. GRAETER Chm.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     I. T. Nov. 27th 1815
            The Trustees of the "Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    " met this day when present Fredk. Graeter esqr. Chm., Jno. D. Hay, C. Graeter,
                    H. Ruble, S. Thorn, M. Barnett, E. McNamee, B. I. Harrison Clk.
            Two Petitions which were addressed to the Legislature of the Territory were read by the Clerk, one of
                    which were to be signed by the members of this board & the other by Citizens of the Borough,
                    each of which passed & a Committee of Jno. D. Hay & C. Graeter were appointed to
                    hand the one for the Citizens to sign.
            It was ordered that M. Barnett be fined Twenty five cents for non attendance at the last meeting of
                    this Board.
            It is ordered that the Committee appointed to the building &c of the Market-house do take
                    particular care of all remaining materials and make sale of them.
            This meeting is now adjourned until the last monday in Dec. next.
            F. GRAETER, Chm.
            
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     I. T. Jany. 17th 1816
            The Trustees of the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     met this, day when present Fredk. Graeter Esqr. Chm., E. McNamee, S. Thorn, C. Graeter,
                    B. I. Harrison Clk.
            It was moved and seconded that Wilson Lago be fined the sum of One Dollar for his non attendance at
                    the last meeting of this Board.
            After due consideration, the Board made the following resolution, "resolved unanimously that
                    a Memorial which has been first & secondly read (directed to Congress praying for the
                    disposal of the Common & Title Lots in the Borough) be immediately enclosed and sent on to
                    Congress for their consideration & Disposal.
            There appearing no farther business before the Board, it is ordered that this meeting is now
                    adjourned until Saturday next at 6 0, Clock.
            B. I. HARRISON, Clk. F. GRAETER, Chm.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     I. T. Jany. 22nd 1816
            The Trustees of the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     met this day, when present Fredk. Graeter Esqr. Chm., E. McNamee, J. Kuykendall, C.
                    Graeter, B. I. Harrison Clk.
            It is moved and seconded that Wilson Lago, be fined one Dollar for his non attendance at the last
                    meeting of this Board.
            It is ordered that the Clerk of this Board do cause to be stuck up three copies of advertisements
                    (one in each ward) for the purpose of having an Election of Nine Trustees, to take place 1st Monday
                    in February next, and to have also a Copy of the same inserted in the Western Sun of this Town.
            This meeting is now adjourned.
            B. I. HARRISON Clk F. GRAETER, Chm.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     I. T. Feby. 3rd 1816
            The Trustees of the "Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    " met this day when present Fredk. Graeter esqr. Chm., C. Graeter, Saml. Thorn,
                    Henry Ruble, J. Kuykendall, J. D. Hay, M. Barnett, Wilson Lago, B. I. Harrison Clk.
            It is ordered, that one of the fines as appears on record against 
                    Wilson Lago for non attendance at this Board, be remitted, and that a credit be entered to his acct.
                    accordingly for the amt. say one Dollar.
            It is ordered that the following accounts be allowed, and be paid out of the first monies collected,
                    not otherwise appropriated
            
               
                  No.
                  1
                  John D. Hay (this is not due until Augt. next)
                  $76.62½
               
               
                  "
                  2
                  Jacob Kuykendall (for lime & plank)
                  11.05
               
               
                  "
                  3
                  Jack McClure (for plank)
                  25.00
               
               
                  "
                  4
                  James McClure (for work done)
                  38.59
               
               
                  "
                  5
                  Saml. Emmerson (for timber)
                  46.38
               
               
                  "
                  6
                  B. I. Harrison (as Clerk)
                  37.93
               
               
                  "
                  7
                  No. B. I. same (as Treasurer)
                  29.96½
               
               
                  "
                  8
                  Jno. B. Driemen (for scantling)
                  43.28
               
               
                  "
                  9
                  Christian Graeter (Candles &c)
                  3.50
               
               
                  "
                  10
                  Will L. Coleman (Nails)
                  1.87½
               
            
            This meeting is now adjourned.
            B. I. HARRISON Clerk. F. GRAETER Chm.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     Feby. 15th 1816
            Agreeably to Notices Received by the members, from the Judges of an Election held at the Court House
                    in the Borough— on Monday the 5th Inst, for the purpose of Electing Nine Trustees for
                    Said Borough the following Members met & took the oath of office: Fredk. Graeter, Chas.
                    Smith, E. Stout, J. D. Hay, Jno. Ewing, E. McNamee, M. Barnett & O. Reiley.
            Fredk. Graeter was then elected Chairman Pro-Tern.——& J. D. Hay Clerk
                    pro Tern——
            Ordered That Chs. Smith be a Committee to direct the former Clerk of the Board, to deposit the Books
                    & papers belonging to the Corporation, with the Board at the next meeting.—
            Ordered That Owen Reiley be a Committee to contract for the printing of the Act Incorporating this
                    Borough & the sup-lement thereto—
            Ordered that John Ewing be a Committee to enquire for a suitable place for the Board to hold their
                    Meetings & that he report to the next Meeting of the Board—
            Adjourned until Friday next at 2 p. m.
            J. D. HAY Clk P. tern F. GRAETER Chmn pro tempore
            
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     23rd Feby. 1816
            This Board met agreeably to adjournment when present—— F. Graeter Chm. P. T.,
                    E. McNamee, C. Smith, J. Ewing, O. Reiley, M. Barnett & J. D. Hay.
            Ambrose Mallett appeared & took the oath of Office.
            The Committee of C. Smith reported, that he had discharged the duty to which he was appointed on the
                    15th Inst.
            The Committee of Owen Reiley reported, that he had wated upon the Printer but as the Number of Copies
                    to be printed was not named he was not enabled to make a Contract.
            The Committee of John Ewing reported that he had attended to his duties, that Peter Jones &
                    M. Barnett had each offered the use of a Room gratis, for the accommodation of the
                    Board——& that C. Graeter offered to furnish a Room for twenty-five
                    cents each meeting:——
            Ordered that the Board hold its next meeting at the House of M. Barnett—
            Ordered that the Books & papers of the Board, now delivered by the former Clerk, be received
                    & kept by the Clerk P. tern. of the Board.
            Ordered that twenty copies of the Charter & suplement thereto be printed—
            Ordered that a Committee be appointed to examine the Minutes & papers of the former Board
                    & report thereon & that J. Ewing & E. McNamee be that Committee.
            Ordered, That C. Smith, O. Reilley & E. McNamee be a Committee to inquire into the legal
                    Qualifications of the Members of this Board——
            Adjourned until Wednesday week at 2 P. M.
            J. D. HAY Clk. P. tern. F. GRAETER Chm. p. t.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     April 22nd 1816.
            The Board met agreeably to public notice set up When Present——E. Stout, E.
                    McNamee, J. Ewing, M. Barnett & J. D. Hay.
            It was moved & seconded that E. Stout should take the Chaii which being carried, was complied
                    with——
            John Ewing of the Committee to examine the Minutes & papers of the former
                    Board——
            
            Reported in part as follows
            Bye Laws for the guidance and government of the Trustees of the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                    ——
            First, The Chairman shall call to order at the hour to which the Board may have adjourned the
                    preceeding meeting or within half an hour after and if a majority appear, the journal of the last
                    meeting shall be read——
            Second, The Chairman shall appoint all committees subject only to addition by motion of any member,
                    when seconded——
            Third, Questions, after debate shall be put by the Chairman in the following words, to wit.
                    "All you who are of opinion &c say aye, all of the contrary opinion say
                    no"——
            Fourth, When a division be called for those in the affirmative will first rise, and afterwards those
                    in the negative, after which the Chairman will state the decision——
            Fifth, When any member is about to speak or deliver any matter to the Board, he shall rise and
                    respectfully address Mr. Chairman——
            Sixth, When two or more members rise at once, the Chair shall decide who is to
                    proceed——
            Seventh, No member shall speak more than twice to the same question or on the same subject during one
                    sitting unless it be avowedly to explain what he may have said——
            Eighth. No member shall vote on any question in the decision of which he is particularly interested
                    but except in such cases, all members shall vote if not excused by the Chair.
            Ninth. When a motion be made and seconded, it shall be stated or read by the Chair and is then deemed
                    in possession of the Board, but may be withdrawn by the mover at any time before decision.
            Tenth. When a question is under debate no motion shall be received except to amend or adjourn.
            Eleventh, Any member may require a division of the question before the Board when its sense will
                    clearly admit of it.
            Twelfth. When any two members shall require the yeas & nays, the votes shall be entered on
                    the minutes & the members names called alphabetically.
            
            Thirteenth. Every motion must be reduced to writing if the Chairman or any member of the Board
                    require it——
            Fourteenth. If any member in speaking or otherwise transgress these rules, the Chairman shall or any
                    Trustee may call him to order, when he shall immediately sit down until permitted to explain, and if
                    in the opinion of the Chair the offence be flagrant he shall be subject to sensure and to fine, two
                    thirds of the members concuring.
            15. No member shall name another who is present in debate.
            16. For non attendance at special or stated meetings after due notice, it shall be at the discretion
                    of the Board, after hearing the member in excuse to exact a fine not exceeding two dollars nor less
                    than fifty Cents—
            17. Every motion offered, may by vote, be laid over until the next succeeding meeting after its
                    presentment.
            18. The Citizens who may visit the Chamber occupied by the Trustees while in session, must not be
                    permitted to speak or in any respect interfere with the members or the business with which they may
                    be occupied—
            19. No communication shall be received by the Board from any Citizen or Citizens unless it be
                    presented by a trustee in meeting.
            20. Members are bound to attend to the duties assigned them when absent, after being notified
                    thereof—
            Ordered that the foregoing report be received & concured in—
            Ordered that Charles Smith & J. D. Hay be a Committee to obtain a Copy or Copies of former
                    Surveys made of this town with all other information which they can obtain on the subject for the
                    use of this Board—
            Adjourned to meet at the Court House on Wednesday 1st May next at 3 O'Clock P. M
            J. D. HAY Clk P. tern. E. STOUT Chm. P. tern.
         
         
         
            CONVEYANCE OF NEGROS IN THE POSEY ESTATE.
            [Document in the Lasselle Collection recently secured by the State Library. For the will of Thomas
                    Posey, mentioning these slaves, see Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History, Vol. IV, No. 1, page 9.]
            KNOW all men by these presents that I Thomas Posey executor of the late Govr. Thomas Posey of the
                    County of Harrison and State of Indiana for and in consideration of the Sum of seven hundred dollars
                    paid as follows (to wit) three hundred and fifty dollars paid the first of June next and three
                    hundred and fifty dollars paid the 17th day of October 1818, the receipt of the above sums in manner
                    above stated the said Thomas Posey doth hereby acknowledge, Hath granted bargained and sold and by
                    these presents do grant bargain and sell unto the said Hyacinthe Laselle his executors,
                    administrators and assigns-a negro man named Charles and a negro woman named Betsy for the term of
                    eight years from the 17th day of April 1818, Then to be completed and ended, which said negrows was
                    indentured to Govr. Thomas Posey of the County of the name and State aforesaid, the said Laselle to
                    have and to hold the said negrows Charles & Betsy for the said term of eight years from the
                    17th day of April 1818, until the said term of time shall be fully compleated. And the said Thomas
                    Posey executor as 'aforesaid, doth hereby relinquish to the said Hyacinthe Lasselle, the
                    said negroes and all claim or claims to the services of the said negroes Charles and betsy for and
                    during the term last aforesaid. And the said Thomas Posey Executor as aforesaid doth hereby warrant
                    and defend the said negroes Charles and Betsey for and during the term aforesaid against the claim
                    or claims of himself, or the heirs of the late Governor Thomas Posey or any person's
                    claiming under him or them, to the said Hyacinthe Laselle & his heirs & assigns. In
                    witness whereof I the said Thomas Posey Executor as aforesaid have hereunto set my hand &
                    seal this seventeenth day of April 1818.
            THOMAS POSEY seal
            
                    Done in the presence of (illegible) N. Huntington.
                
         
         
         
            EARLY HISTORY OF PRESBYTERIANISM IN THE WHITEWATER VALLEY.
            
                    BY REV. L. D. POTTER, ABOUT 1855
                
            [A paper written about 1855 by the Rev. L. D. Potter, an early Presbyterian minister in the
                        Whitewater Valley, and for a long- time President of Glendale Female
                    College, Glendale, O. This account is an excellent supplement for the ground it covers to H. A.
                    Edson's Early Indiana Pres-byterianísm, and valuable in the study of Indiana
                    church history, a rather neglected field in most histories of the State. For the manuscript we are
                    indebted to Mr. Harry M. Stoops, of 
                        Brookville
                    .]
            IT is proposed in this brief record to preserve some reminiscences of the efforts, successful and
                    unsuccessful, to plant a Presbyterian Church in 
                        Brookville
                    , and to rescue from oblivion before it is too late, some facts which may be of
                    interest, not only to us but to those who come after us. It is hoped that additions may hereafter be
                    made to these scattered fragments of history and that our efforts in this respect may stimulate
                    others to carry forward the work thus commenced.
            The town of 
                        Brookville
                     being laid out in that narrow strip of country known as "the first
                    purchase," began to have a "local habitation and a name" in the earliest
                    records of the territory lying west of the State of 
                        Ohio
                    . The first settlement in this vicinity was made about the year 1800, after which time
                    the tide of emigration seems to have increased for several years. 
                        Brookville
                     having been early selected by the 
                        United States
                     Government as a paying station for the American Indians, increased rapidly in
                    population from 1810 to 1816, when the territory became a State, at which time it is supposed the
                    number of inhabitants was nearly as great as it is now.
            After the second purchase of land was made, and especially after the complete division of the country
                    into counties, a large number from the town and vicinity moved away into the newer portions of the
                    State. Among these were several who afterward rose to distinction as professional men and
                    politicians.
            After this the population decreased, owing to the fact above stated and to the extensive prevalence
                    of sickness, until about the year 1833, at which time,' and for some years previous, more
                         than one-half of the houses in the town were tenantless and
                    dilapidated. From that time to the present the population has increased more or less from year to
                    year.
            Like most other portions of the western country, this region was settled by persons from various
                    sections of the 
                        United States
                    , and of various religious views. The majority, however, appear to have been from the
                    Southern States, and the prevailing religious denomination was the Baptist.
            The first Presbyterian minister of whose labors we have any authentic record in this region was the
                    Rev. Samuel Baldridge, a native of 
                        Virginia
                    , who first removed to 
                        Tennessee
                     and afterward to this State, and who is still living at an advanced age. He organized a
                    church of seventeen members in 1811 at the house of John Allen, near Harrison, and preached to that
                    church statedly until 1814. From 1810 to 1814 he labored as an itinerant missionary in the
                        Whitewater valley, having various preaching stations from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to Dunlapsville. He preached here and at Robert Templeton's, but more
                    frequently at John Temple-ton's and Mr. Hanna's, near Hanna's creek. At
                    that time there were several families here who were either members or adherents of the Presbyterian
                    church. Among these were Mr. and Mrs.–Barbour, from 
                        Ireland
                    ; Judge Arthur Dixon and wife and brother, from Harper's Church,
                            
                  Washington county, Virginia
               ; Mr.–Young, who kept what has since been known as
                    the "old yellow tavern," and who was from Pennsylvania; Mr. John Vincent and wife;
                    Mr. Robert Templeton and wife; the parents of Mrs. Ryburn; the Knights, and Mr. and Mrs. William
                    McCleery, who were from Frederick, Md.
            All of these resided in the town except Mr. Templeton, the parents of Mrs. Ryburn, and one of the
                    Dixons. The latter lived on the 
                        Rushville
                     road at the foot of "Boundary Hill." He afterward moved to a farm
                    near 
                        Connersville
                    , and a few years later united with a Methodist Episcopal Church. Arthur Dixon was a
                    blacksmith. He removed to 
                        Connersville
                     in 1823, and his wife was one of the early members of the church organized there.
            After the removal of Mr. Baldridge from 
                        Harrison
                     there was occasional preaching in 
                  Harrison, Brookville, Somerset
               , and the region adjacent, by Rev. – Robertson,
                    of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Rev.
            
            James Dickey, of 
                        Ohio
                    , and others, but no regular supply at either place for four or five years. During that
                    time, however, several Presbyterian families, mostly from 
                        New Jersey
                     and Pennsylvania, moved to 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Mt. Carmel
                    , and from 1816 to 1825 efforts were made to gather the scattered members into churches,
                    which resulted in the formation within a few years of four churches, viz.: 
                        Brookville
                     in 1818, 
                        Mt. Carmel
                     in 18–, 
                        Somerset
                     about 1823, and Bath in 1825.
            During this period, besides occasional supplies from Presbytery and various intinerant clergymen, the
                    friends of Presbyterianism were much encouraged by the faithful and zealous labors of two young
                    ministers who came from the East as domestic missionaries. These were Adams W. Piatt, of 
                        New York
                    , and William B. Barton, of 
                        New Jersey
                    . After spending three or four years traversing the country from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to 
                        Richmond
                    , these brethren, to the great grief of the people, saw fit to return to their native
                    States. Mr. Piatt afterward preached in several different places in 
                        New York
                    , and Mr. Barton settled as pastor at 
                  Woodbridge, N. J.
               , where he
                    remained until his death in 1850.
            The way being prepared for the organization of a church at 
                        Brookville
                    , Judge Loughlin, at the request of several citizens, members and others, met the
                    Presbytery of 
                        Cincinnati
                     in the spring of 1818 and requested them to visit the place for that purpose. The
                    Presbytery accordingly appointed Rev. Joshua L. Wilson, D. D., of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , to perform that service, and a church was organized by him in the court-house, then
                    nearly finished, in May of the same year. The able and eloquent discourses preached by this eminent
                    servant of God are still remembered with lively interest by some who heard them and who still
                    survive in this vicinity. About the same time a small Methodist class was formed, of which Samuel
                    Goodwin was the leader, and previous to this two flourishing Baptist churches were in existence, one
                    three miles south of 
                        Brookville
                    , which still exists, and one three miles west, near the residence of Fielding Jeter,
                    deceased, which was disbanded many years ago.
            The church above referred to was organized under very favorable auspices and at first was in a
                    promising condition, but for reasons which we will hereafter give, it went down about the  year 1821 or 1822. There was at the time no regularly organized church
                    in the town and no house of worship. It is to be regretted that sessional records are lost, and
                    after the most diligent search no trace of them can be found. It is supposed, however, that they
                    were in the possession of Judge Loughlin, whose papers were burned with the house of Job Pugh, Esq.,
                    of 
                        Rushville
                    , administrator of his estate. We present such facts in reference to the history as we
                    have been able to glean from various sources.
            The number of members at first is supposed to have been about twenty, whose names as far as can be
                    ascertained are as follows: William B. Loughlin and his wife; James Goudie and Mary, his wife; Neri
                    Ogdeh and Mary, his wife; Obadiah Bennett and Ruth, his wife; William Rose and wife; Andrew Reed and
                    Rebecca, his wife; Joseph Goudie; John Cummins and Martha, his wife, and two daughters, Lucinda and
                    Mary; Mrs. Oliver, wife of Br. Oliver; John Huston and Sarah, his wife; George Wallace and Eveline,
                    his wife; Thomas Selfridge and Mary, his wife; John Vincent and wife; the parents of Mrs. Ryburn
                    (names not known); Mrs. Henderson, wife of John Henderson; Robert Templeton and wife; Mrs. Westcott;
                    Mrs. Murdock; Mrs. Drew; and Jane and Eliza Armstrong. Some of these probably joined after the
                    organization.
            The following adherents and attendants were trained in the faith of the Presbyterian church and were
                    probably baptized members, but not communicants: James Wallace and Sarah, his wife, now living at
                    the village of Union; John Huston and Sarah, his wife, now living in the bounds of 
                        Rushville
                     congregation and members of that church; – Huston (father of the last
                    mentioned) now a member of the 
                        Connersville
                     church; Mr. Meeks and wife (the latter still living here); Arthur Dixon and wife;
                    George Hammond, Mr. Westcott, Mr. McGinnis, Mr. Adair and wife (the latter still living in 
                        Brookville
                    ); Mr. Barbour and wife; William Butler and wife (now living near 
                        Brookville
                    ); and Mrs. Martin, mother of Amos and Mrs. William Stoops.
            The places from which they came, as far as can be ascertained, were as follows: Andrew Reed and Mrs.
                    William Butler were from Laurel Hill Church, 
                        Washington county
                    , Pennsylvania; the Goudies and John Cummins were from Tyrone Church, Westmoreland  county, Pennsylvania; Huston from 
                        Green county
                    , Pennsylvania; Selfridge from 
                        Indiana county
                    , Pennsylvania; Loughlin from Pennsylvania; Ogden, Bennett and Rose from Fairton Church,
                            
                  Cumberland county, New Jersey
               ; Henderson was also from 
                        New Jersey
                    ; George Wallace from 
                        Huntington
                     county, 
                        Tennessee
                    ; Dixons from Harper's Church, 
                  Washington
                            county, Virginia
               ; Temple-ton
                    from 
                        South Carolina
                    ; Meeks and Adair, not known; Oliver from 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; Vincent from 
                  Fayette County, Kentucky
               ; Westcott from 
                        New Jersey
                    ; 
                  Murdock, Hammond
               , Drew and Armstrongs, not known; McGinnis and 
                        Butler
                     from Pennsylvania; Barbour from 
                        Ireland
                    . Several of these, however, had resided in 
                        Cincinnati
                     or the vicinity a short time previous to their coming here and were known to Dr.
                    Wilson.
            The session consisted of five ruling elders, viz., William Rose, William B. Loughlin, James Goudie,
                    Obadiah Bennett and Neri Ogden.
            Soon after the organization of the church a flourishing Sabbath school was commenced, in which nearly
                    all of the members of the church engaged as teachers. It is believed to have been one the first
                    Sabbath schools, if not the first, established in the State, and was continued until most of the
                    members had removed from town. One or two of the Methodist brethren assisted occasionally in the
                    school. After this was discontinued, no other was attempted for several years. The members of the M.
                    E. Church started one occasionally, which was at times in a good condition and at times abandoned
                    altogether. After the reorganization of the Presbyterian Church, and about the commencement of the
                    labors of Rev. William J. Patterson, the two churches formed 3 union Sunday-school, which was,
                    however, soon divided, and the two have been in successful operation from that time to the present.
            About the year 1820 an effort was made to erect a house of worship. A lot was selected adjoining the
                    old graveyard and near the place where the Catholic Church now stands, a subscription raised to pay
                    for it, and the timbers brought on the ground, but before anything further was done, nearly all the
                    members had left town and the people began to be discouraged. Not a single trustee was a member of
                    the church, the people were dissatisfied  with the minister, Rev.
                    G. G. Brown, who had been preaching since before the organization of the church, and the town was
                    decreasing rapidly in population. Under all these unfavorable circumstances the project was finally
                    abandoned, and the frame, after lying a long time on the ground, was sold. It is now
                    supposed" to form a part of Mrs. Meek's stable, and the lot has long since fallen
                    into other hands.
            The failure in building the house was an exceedingly unfortunate blow to the interests of
                    Presbyterianism in this place, inasmuch as the erection of a house would in all probability have
                    given perpetuity to the church, notwithstanding the adverse influences which were at that time in
                    operation against the town and church. About this time the church was dissolved and soon after
                    stricken from the roll of Presbytery. Three causes may be assigned for this deplorable result in a
                    church which was at first one of the most promising in the State:
            First, the removal of the members. All of them except Mrs. Oliver and one or two other females left
                    the place, most of whom went so far away as to be entirely out of the bounds of the congregation.
            Second, the character of the minister, Rev. Guernsey G. Brown. He was not a genuine Presbyterian,
                    either in feeling or sentiment. He was born in 
                        New England
                    , educated in the Congregational Church and licensed by an association in 
                        Connecticut
                     for two years, according to a custom which then prevailed in that church. Under the
                    operation of the "Plan of Union" adopted by the General Assembly in 1801 and
                    abrogated in 1837, he was received as a licentiate by the Presbytery of 
                        Cincinnati
                     in the fall of 1817 and allowed to labor in their bounds. Unfavorable reports soon
                    reached the Presbytery respecting his orthodoxy and ministerial character, but not sufficiently
                    tangible to furnish grounds for specific charges against him. At the expiration of the two years, he
                    applied to the Presbytery for a continuance of his license to preach. Influenced by his importunity,
                    his humble acknowledgments and his faithful promises to correct some inconsistencies in his
                    ministerial deportment, they reluctantly consented to continue his license for another year, but at
                    the expiration of that  time recalled it and refused to allow him
                    to preach longer. He was a man of inferior talents, trifling in his deportment, unsound according to
                    the Presbyterian standards in his religious creeds, and was considered by some as even of doubtful
                    piety. He consequently lost the confidence of the church and of the reflecting portion of the
                    citizens. He bought (in April, 1818), a lot of Allen in the town plot called after his name, and
                    built the house for many years occupied as a residence by William Beeks. It was sold under execution
                    by Noah Noble, sheriff, in November, 1823. He was for a time assistant editor of a paper then
                    published in 
                        Brookville
                    . He afterward removed to Berksville, 
                  Cumberland
                        county, Kentucky
               , where by some
                    means he succeeded in gaining admittance to the Baptist Church.
            Third, the efforts made to organize other churches east, west and north of 
                        Brookville
                    . From fragments of this divided congregation were formed in part three other churches,
                    viz., 
                        Mt. Carmel
                    , Bath and 
                        Somerset
                    . The Goudies, Reed, Sering, Self-ridge, Cummins, James Wallace, and perhaps some others
                    went to 
                        Mt. Carmel
                    . Several Presbyterian families had come into the region east of 
                        Brookville
                    , so much scattered that it was difficult to fix upon a suitable location, and they held
                    their services for a long time in private houses, barns, and in the woods. No less than seven sites
                    were selected, six of which were afterward abandoned. They were the following: (1) Near the Big
                    Cedar Baptist Church. Here they built a small log church which stood for several years after it was
                    abandoned as a place for Presbyterian preaching. (2) Near Nimrod Breckney's, on the hill
                    east of Big Cedar creek. (3) On the land of the late Peter Mills-paugh. (4) On the land of James
                    Goudie, Sr. (6) On the farm of James Thompson, east of Mr. Breckney's. (7) On the spot
                    where it now stands, which was at that time in the woods. The church was organized some time before
                    the house of worship was erected.
            Another church was organized about the year 1823 in 
                        Somerset
                    , now the suburbs of the town of Laurel. They never had a house of worship, but held
                    their services in different places, most frequently at the house of David Watson. The number of
                    members  was at one time about twelve or fifteen and the session
                    consisted of David Watson, – Reed, and Mr. Van –. All of them removed in a few
                    years except Mr. Watson, who subsequently united with 
                        Mt. Carmel
                    , and afterward with this church (in 1841), in which connection he remained until his
                    death.
            The Bath Church, two miles east of 
                        Fairfield
                    , was organized in 1825, and soon after was erected the house of worship, which still
                    stands upon the same spot. Ogden, Bennett and Rose, all of whom were ruling elders in the 
                        Brookville
                     church, united with it and were immediately chosen to the same office there.
            After the dissolution of the old church in 
                        Brookville
                    . no energetic effort was made to organize another until the spring of 1839. During the
                    interval, however, there was Presbyterian preaching occasionally, as will be mentioned hereafter,
                    and several of the prominent citizens exerted themselves at times to secure the regular
                    ministrations of some one of our branch of the church. The state of religion was very low, and
                    universalism and infidelity prevailed to a considerable extent. Intemperance, profanity and Sabbath
                    breaking were for many years alarmingly prevalent.
            The Methodist Episcopal Church, which commenced its existence in April, 1816, with a class formed by
                    the late Samuel Goodwin, accomplished much for the spiritual interests of the community, but its
                    number of members was small for many years. It began to increase rapidly, however, soon after the
                    organization of this church in 1839, and has ever since, as is well known, been in a flourishing
                    condition.
            For many years a few of the citizens of the' town attended more or less regularly the
                    services of the Little Cedar Baptist Church, below 
                        Brookville
                    , which was in a prosperous condition and enjoyed the faithful and efficient
                    ministrations of Rev. Mr. Tyner and Rev. Mr. Dewees. During the interval above referred to, a few
                    other Presbyterian families moved into the town or neighborhood, but subsequently united with other
                    churches, or remained still in connection with the churches from which they came. Among these were
                    Mrs. Clarkson, who retained her connection with 
                        Mt. Carmel
                     until 1840; Mrs. Wise and Miss Ogden, now of Harrison; Mr. John C. Conrad, who moved
                    three miles  north of 
                        Brookville
                    . He and his wife were members of the First Presbyterian Church in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . There being no church here, he united with the Methodist Episcopal Church. Robert W.
                    Halsted emigrated from 
                        New Jersey
                    , remained for a time in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where he was connected with Dr. Wilson's church, and removed to the West
                    Fork, three miles west of 
                        Brookville
                    . He also joined the Methodist Episcopal Church and later his wife also. Mr. Hendrickson
                    moved from 
                  Warren County, New Jersey
               , to his farm three miles west of 
                        Brookville
                    . He and his wife were brought up in the Presbyterian Church but were never members. The
                    same may be said of Mr. John Warne and his mother, who came from the same region of the country.
                    Mrs. Hendrickson afterward joined the Methodist Episcopal Church.
            The following ministers preached in 
                        Brookville
                     from time to time during that long period: David Monfort, D. D., occasionally from 1822
                    to 1830. (He was settled at Bethel Church, 
                        Ohio
                    , and once a month itinerated" in this region. He preached here several times
                    with great acceptance, in some instances by request on special subjects. At one time he was waited
                    on by Mr. R. John, Mr. Noble and other prominent citizens, who promised him, in behalf of the
                    citizens, one-half a support if he would preach for them every other Sabbath.) Rev. Archibald Craig,
                    for several years pastor of the church at 
                        Mt. Carmel
                    ; Rev. Isaac Ambrose Ogden, pastor of Bath Church, who was also for a time teacher in
                    the county seminary; Rev. Mr. Boardman, of whom nothing further is known; Rev. Mr. Brich, who died
                    in 
                        Illinois
                     sitting at the root of a tree while his horse was grazing near; Rev. Alexander
                    McAndless; Mr. Duncan; Rev. J. Dickey, a singularly eloquent, eccentric and attractive preacher,
                    whose praise is in all the western churches; Mr. Jabez Porter, a young minister from the Theological
                    Seminary at 
                  Andover, Mass.
                Mr. Porter was in feeble health, taught for a time in the
                    seminary about the year 1829 and preached occasionally. He organized a Sunday-school and tract
                    society and was regarded a most estimable young man. He was importuned to remain and make an effort
                    to raise a Presbyterian Church, but preferred to return to 
                        New England
                    .
            
            Rev. David M. Stewart came here as a teacher in 1834 and pursued his theological studies at the same
                    time. He was licensed in October, 1835, and preached nearly every other Sabbath until April, 1836,
                    when he removed to 
                        Rushville
                    , where he now resides. He was licensed in the middle of his school year and requested
                    the trustees to release him that he might devote himself to the preaching of the Gospel. The board
                    consisted of J. A. Matson, R. John, William McCleery, and others. They refused to release him on the
                    plea that they needed his services as a preacher as well as a teacher. He also preached at the mouth
                    of Duck creek (now Metamora) in Mr. Watson's house, where there were still two or three
                    members of the 
                        Somerset
                     Church.
            It may be proper to append here brief sketches of a few of the persons mentioned in the above history
                    so far as anything concerning them is known. In doing so we observe no particular order as regards
                    the date of their settlement, etc.
            William B. Loughlin was from Pennsylvania. He settled on what has since been called the Flint farm,
                    on the high ground between Pipe creek and the mouth of Snail creek, March 1, 1816. He taught school
                    in 
                        Brookville
                     and on December 31, 1820, removed to 
                        Rushville
                     as a surveyor and laid off a large part of the second purchase in Rush and the
                    adjoining counties, and was for some time district judge." His descendants still reside in 
                        Rushville
                    .
            Neri Ogden and Obadiah Bennett (brothers-in-law) came, as already stated, from 
                  Cumberland county, New
                    Jersey
               , and afterward removed to Bath. The wife of Mr. Ogden (now Mrs. El-well)
                    still resides in 
                        Fairfield
                    . Mr. Bennett died in 
                        Cuba
                    , West Indies, whither he had gone on a journey on account of his health. His widow now
                    lives in 
                        Jennings county
                     at an advanced age.
            General William Rose came from the same church in 
                        New Jersey
                     and settled on a. farm three miles east of Dunlapsville, and afterward joined the Bath
                    Church. His descendants still remain there. Though fifteen miles distant, he was one of the most
                    regular attendants at the services on the Sabbath, coming down usually on Saturday and remaining
                    until Monday. Weather which usually detains others from going less than half a mile to the sanctuary
                    did not prevent him from traveling fifteen.
            
            John Cummins built a saw-mill at the south point of Boundary Hill and resided
                    there. He removed into the bounds of 
                        Mt. Carmel
                     congregation.
            Robert Templeton, Sr., settled three miles above 
                        Brookville
                     in 1806, coming from 
                        South Carolina
                    . During the latter part of his life he had no connection with any church, yet still
                    maintained a consistent Christian character and a family altar until his death. His reason for not
                    uniting with the Bath Church, to which he was sufficiently convenient, is not known. His sons,
                    Robert and David, and the widow of James, still reside on the same farm.
            John Vincent and wife came from 
                        Virginia
                    , settled in 
                        Fayette
                    . county, 
                        Kentucky
                    , then in 
                  Harrison, Ohio
               , and removed to the West Fork in 1800. They were both
                    members of the old church, but after it went down joined the Baptists. Their daughters, Mrs. Robert
                    Stoops and Mrs. E. Wilson, still live in our midst.
            Mr. Martin and wife came from 
                        South Carolina
                     and settled on the West Fork in 1809. Mr. Martin was a member of the Pendleton Church
                    in that State. Two of their sons, William and Amos, were members of this church at the time of their
                    decease, the latter a ruling elder. Mrs. William Stoops, also a member, still lives in our midst.
            David Watson was born in 
                        Scotland
                     in May, 1763, and came to America in 1801. He was a ruling elder in the church in
                    Dundee before he left the old country. After living fourteen years in 
                  West Chester county, New
                        York
               , he removed to Rising Sun, Ind., in 1815, and to the mouth of Duck
                    creek (now Metamora) in 1816, where he remained until his death, which occurred July 25, 1850, at
                    the age of eighty-seven years. As before stated, he connected with 
                        Mt. Carmel
                     Church after the dissolution of 
                        Somerset
                    , and then with 
                        Brookville
                    . He was a plain but a very intelligent man and ardently attached to the Presbyterian
                    Church, though charitable to those who differed from him in doctrine and religious sentiment. During
                    all his life, and especially the latter part of it, he was a remarkable reader of the Scriptures.
                    The last time that he was privileged to engage in family worship (a few days previous to his death)
                    he read with much feeling parts  of the fifteenth and sixteenth
                    chapters of I Corinthians, and what was still more worthy of notice, narrated the substance of a
                    remarkable dream in which the Savior appeared to grant him special tokens of his kindness in
                    consequence of his early consecration to His service, promising to take him immediately to Himself.
                    This was before there were any indications of special sickness or of his being near his end. After
                    this beatific vision he set his house in order, waited anxiously for the hour of his departure and
                    fell asleep in Jesus after a very brief confinement to his bed. His house was a stopping place and a
                    home for Presbyterian ministers and a preaching station for ministers of all evangelical
                    denominations for thirty-five years. His three daughters still live in Metamora.
            Samuel Sering was born in 
                        Westmoreland county
                    , Pennsylvania, August 17, 1781. His father emigrated to Maysville, Ky., in 1788,
                    removed to the mouth of the Little Miami in 1789, and was one of the eight who united in forming the
                    First Presbyterian Church of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . In 1798 he removed to Turtle creek, near 
                  Lebanon, Ohio
               , and became a
                    ruling elder in that church. In the great revival of 1801-'05 he first joined the New
                    Lights, and afterward, with nearly all his family, except Samuel, entered the Shaker community at 
                        Lebanon
                    , where he died. Samuel moved to the farm now occupied by Silas and Abner, his sons, in
                    1819, and soon after joined 
                        Mt. Carmel
                     Church, then removed to Bath, in both of which churches he was a ruling elder. He and
                    his wife united with this church in 1842. Mrs. Sering died in the spring of 1850 and Mr. Sering in
                    the fall of 1851.
            John Henderson emigrated from 
                        New Jersey
                     and settled in 
                        Brookville
                     before the organization of the old church. He was a shoemaker and pursued this
                    occupation for some time, but subsequently studied law. Soon after his admission to the bar he
                    removed to 
                        Mississippi
                    , where he rose rapidly to eminence in his profession, and was for many years a
                    distinguished 
                        United States
                     Senator from that State.
            The first efforts toward the organization of the present church were made in the fall of 1838. It
                    ought, perhaps, to be here acknowledged that the persons who took the lead in the preliminary  steps were not impelled to it by a sincere desire to promote the
                    spiritual interests of themselves or of the community, but rather by a spirit of opposition to some
                    measures connected with the erection of the Methodist Episcopal Church, at which certain persons not
                    connected with any church had taken umbrage. It is hoped, however, in the spirit of charity that
                    there were other reasons of a purer kind which were not apparent upon the surface, as some of these
                    persons were known to have had previous partialities for the Presbyterian Church. There were five
                    persons residing in 
                        Brookville
                     who had been members of the Presbyterian Church elsewhere, who expressed a wish to have
                    a church of their choice here, but took no part in those first efforts which were connected with the
                    opposition to the other church. At the suggestion of John A. Matson, Richard Tyner and others,
                    Jeremiah Woods addressed a letter to Dr. John W. Scott, then professor in 
                        Oxford
                     College, requesting him to come over and preach. As the result of this and subsequent
                    efforts,-Dr. Scott, Rev. W. W. Robertson and Rev. William Graham preached here occasionally for
                    upwards of six months until the summer of 1839.
            In the spring of 1839 some of the brethren of 
                        Oxford
                     began to open the way for the organization of a church by making regular appointments
                    here, and on the 8th of August Revs. John W. Scott, W. W. Robertson (now in 
                        Missouri
                    ) and William Graham (now in 
                        New Jersey
                    ), commenced a protracted meeting, intending to form a church before it closed, should
                    the way be clear. On Sabbath, the 11th, they received four by letter and thirteen by examination,
                    formed them into a church and administered to them the sacrament of the Lord's supper. M.
                    W. Hail and William McCleery were chosen and ordained to the office of ruling elder. In October of
                    the same year the church solicited the services of Rev. William J. Patterson, a licentiate of 
                        Madison
                     Presbytery, and he commenced his labors on the last Sabbath of January following
                    (1840). He was elected pastor in the early part of the next autumn and was ordained and installed by
                    the Presbytery of 
                        Oxford
                    , November 19, 1840.
            He continued pastor of this church until his death, September  20,
                    1844. Possessed of respectable talents, of sound judgment, of deep and ardent piety, and of lovely
                    and attractive manners, he won the affection and esteem of all who knew him, and died in the midst
                    of his days, lamented by all the friends of true religion in this community and by his brethren in
                    the ministry. None saw him but to love, none knew him but to praise. The savor of a blameless life,
                    of a godly walk and conversation, and of a deeply religious spirit still remained, and his name
                    still lingers in the memory of an affectionate flock. Truly may it be said of him, to this day,
                    "His works do follow him." Truly it may be said of him, as of his Master, that
                    even those who watched his words and conduct with an evil eye "could find no occasion
                    against him." His remains are buried in the graveyard belonging to the church.
            Soon after the commencement of his ministry, the congregation purchased and fitted up the house
                    formerly occupied by the Methodist Episcopal Church, and received as a donation from William W.
                    Butler a piece of ground adjoining it for a burying place. During the four and a half years that he
                    labored here there were added to the church, on examination 26, on certificate 16, infant baptisms
                    10, adult baptisms 12. The total number of communicants at his death was about 45. Five ruling
                    elders were added to the session, viz., William Patterson (father of the pastor), John Adams,
                    Ephraim Bennett and Amos D. Martin.
            Early in the winter of 1844-'45, Rev. John Gilchrest commenced his labors as a stated supply
                    in this church, and continued until the spring of 1847, dividing his time for the first few months
                    between 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Greensburg
                     (where he resided during the winter), and afterward between 
                        Brookville
                     and Bath. He removed to Dunlapsville, of which church he is still pastor. During his
                    ministry the church at 
                        Pennsylvaniaburg
                     was dissolved and the members were received to this church. Including these there were
                    added on examination 3, on certificate 9, infant baptisms 15, adult baptisms 2.
            Rev. L. D. Potter commenced his labors November 20, 1847, and removed to Dunlapsville to take charge
                    of the Presbyterial  Academy located in that place, September 1,
                    1853. He divided his time for one and a half years between 
                        Brookville
                     and Bath; for one and a half years after this between 
                        Brookville
                     and a missionary field west and south until the organization of the Metamora Church;
                    then between 
                        Brookville
                     and Metamora. He was installed pastor of the united churches in the fall of 1851.
            The present house of worship was commenced, enclosed and the basement occupied previous to his
                    removal. There were added during his ministry of nearly six years, on examination 68, on certificate
                    20, infant baptisms 40, adult baptisms 33.
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL.
            THE STATE LIBRARY AND THE ARCHIVES DEPARTMENT.
            The Indiana legislature of 1909, by lack of provision for the continuation of the work of the
                    Archives Department of the State Library, has probably necessitated the dropping of that work in the
                    near future. This is to be regretted, not only by those interested in Indiana history, but by the
                    general public. A well developed archives department is getting to be recognized as a necessity in
                    most of the States. It forms the best means of keeping the official records of the State, which in
                    Indiana, before the creation of this department, were for the most part inaccessible and often
                    destroyed.
            The department has but fairly begun this work in this State, and only those who know what is
                    accomplished in other States will appreciate the loss involved in its discontinuance. It is to be
                    hoped that the next legislature will restore this important work.
            While this subject is under discussion, it will perhaps not be out of place to suggest that an
                    agitation by all concerned be begun now and kept up until it has accomplished its object, for the
                    erection of an adequate State Library building, and the establishment not only of an archives
                    department as it now exists, but of the other forms of library and historical work done in other
                    progressive States, such as 
                        Massachusetts
                     in the East, and 
                        Wisconsin
                     in the West.
         
         
         
            NOTES.
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
            The regular annual meeting of the society was held in the law offices of its president, Judge D. W.
                    Howe, in the Union Trust Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Thursday, December 31, 1908, at 2 in the afternoon. The president's report
                    showed an enrollment in the society of eighty-nine regular and twelve honorary members. The
                    publication during the year of the following papers was reported: "Making a Capital in the
                    Wilderness," by D. W. Howe; "Names of Persons Enumerated in 
                        Marion County
                    , Indiana, in the Fifth Census, 1830," "Some Elements of
                    Indiana's Population, or Roads West and Their Early Travelers," by W. E. Henry,
                    being Nos. 4, 5 and 6, respectively, of Volume. IV of the society's publications, one
                    thousand copies of each being printed. The executive committee reported $233.75 of the
                    legislative appropriation available for publications of the year ending October 1, 1909. The
                    treasurer reported $3,000 in the permanent endowment fund and $370.57 cash on
                    hand. The Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History reported having received from the society last year
                    $110, and the guarantee of $150, if necessary, for the year 1909 was renewed
                    by vote of the society. The committee upon Revolutionary pensioners reported that 1172 had been
                    located in Indiana. The following officers were elected for the year 1909: President, D. W. Howe;
                    first vice-president, Charles W. Moores; second vice-president, W. E. English; third vice-president,
                    Bishop D. O'Don-aghue; treasurer, Charles E. Coffin; recording secretary, J. P. Dunn;
                    corresponding secretary, C. B. Coleman; executive committee, John H. Holliday, A. C. Harris, Charles
                    W. Moores, Charles Martindale, J. P. Dunn.
            At a meeting of the executive committee on January 29th the society pledged itself to contribute its
                    proportionate share, not to exceed $200, toward the expense of preparing and publishing
                    an index of material in the French archives relating to the early  history of the Mississippi Valley, the expenditure to be under the direction
                    of the committee of the Mississippi Valley Historical Society.
            AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION COMING TO INDIANAPOLIS.
            The American Historical Association, in its meeting at 
                        Richmond
                    , Va., in December, 1908, voted to hold its next western meeting-that is, December
                    27-30, 1910-in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This may involve sessions of the American Economic and Sociological Societies, and in
                    all probability will bring at least the American Political Science Association and the
                        Mississippi Valley Historical Association. In other words, at least four
                    hundred of the leading historical and political science workers in the country are expected at the
                    meeting at 
                        Indianapolis
                     next year.
            This represents the result of a concerted invitation from 
                        Indianapolis
                     and other parts of the State. 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the State at large are' to be congratulated on securing this important
                    meeting. It is not too early to begin preparations for the meeting. Accommodations for the various
                    sessions and departments of the convention, providing suitable social recognition of the
                    distinguished men who are engaged in the work of the association, involves elaborate planning.
            Steps will probably be taken soon to organize a local committee to take charge of the arrangements.
                    Meanwhile, let everything be done to arouse public interest in this important event.
            THE OHIO ARCHAEOLOGICAL AND HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
            Indian mounds are attracting considerable attention in 
                        Ohio
                     historical circles at present. The January, 1909, issue of the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Archaelogical and Historical Quarterly contains two articles and several notes
                    upon this subject. Doubtless part of the interest is due to the publication of interesting articles
                    about the newly-discovered Serpent Mound in 
                        Warren County
                    , which seems to rival in importance the well-known 
                        Adams county
                     Serpent Mound. This former mound has evidently been damaged by nature and time, but the
                    outlines are said to be distinct, and clearly "represent a serpent in active
                    motion."
            The State Legislature has taken enough interest in archaeological 
                    matters to appropriate $500 for the erection of an iron observation tower at the site of
                    the old Serpent Mound. This was satisfactorily installed in September of last year.
            The 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Archaeological and Historical Quarterly also has an account of some native
                    antiquities found near 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            THE 
                        WAYNE COUNTY
                     SOCIETY.
            The 
                        Wayne County
                     Historical Society has secured a large room for its library and the display of its
                    historical relics in the Morrison-Reeves Public Library, 
                        Richmond
                    , and the public meetings of the society will hereafter be held in the lecture room of
                    the library.
            THE 
                        MONROE COUNTY
                     SOCIETY.
            This society has also recently secured permanent quarters in the Court-House, and is in the midst of
                    an active work.
            A REVOLUTIONARY RELIC.
            A drum is on exhibition at the Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument, which was used in
                    the Revolution by Timothy Church, of 
                        Connecticut
                    . He was a drummer in the American army, taken prisoner in 1778, carried to 
                        Nova Scotia
                     by the British, and died there of smallpox.
            The drum came into possession of his brother John-also in the Revolution-then to his son Isaac, then
                    to his son George W., who moved to Lawrence township, 
                        Marion County
                    , Indiana, in 1845. From him it passed to his youngest son, Joseph W. Church, the
                    present owner of the drum, who resides at South-port, Indiana.
            John Church, with his brothers, Philemon, Simeon and Timothy, were at the Battle of Saratoga, where
                    the last named, too young to bear a musket, was still big enough to beat a drum.
         
         
         
            REVIEWS OF BOOKS.
            HISTORIC INDIANA. [By Julia Henderson Levering (Mrs. Mortimer Levering). Illustrated. 538 pp. 8vo.
                    1909. G. P. Putnam's Sons, 
                        New York
                    , $3 net.]
            Mrs. Levering's book is one of the most pretentious yet published upon Indiana history. It
                    is, as" the sub-title implies, not a continuous history of this State, but
                    "chapters in the story of the Hoosier State, from a romantic period of foreign exploration
                    and dominion, through pioneer days, stirring war times and periods of peaceful progress, to the
                    present time." It is written with enthusiastic appreciation of the achievements of Indiana
                    people and of the 'characteristics of Indiana stock.
            Some of the more interesting chapters are: "How Spanish Rule Affected Indiana,"
                    "Picturesque Indiana," "An Indiana Type" (an account of Albert
                    Henderson, of the family of the authoress), "Letters and Art in Indiana,"
                    "The State Civilization in Indiana, as Shown by Her Laws." There are in all
                    twenty-two chapters, which deal each with some particular phase of Indiana's history or of
                    natural features of the State.
            Mrs. Levering, besides having the advantage of "life-long familiarity with the scenes and
                    characters and movements of the events mentioned," has also consulted and used most of the
                    literature on Indiana history. The technical historian would perhaps call for a larger use of
                    strictly original matter, but the general reader, for whom the book is most intended, will gain as
                    much interest and information as from any other book dealing with the subject.
            The religious history of the State has for the most part been entirely neglected by authors of
                    Indiana histories. It is interesting to have the subject at least briefly touched upon by Mrs.
                    Levering, although her chapter upon-"Early Churches in Indiana," by no means
                    attempts to give a full account of even the early religious development of the State, and makes no
                    attempt  to estimate the significant features of religious life
                    in this part of the country.
            Of the book as a whole it is not too much to say that it is the most important publication upon
                    Indiana history since Mr. J. P. Dunn's "Indiana." It is written in a most
                    interesting way, and is well proportioned. It contains a large fund of information, occasionally
                    lacking perhaps in definiteness and references for verification, but undeniably more reliable than
                    the average State or local history. The illustrations are largely reproductions of old prints, views
                    of Indiana scenery and buildings. There are too few maps, and hardly as many pictures of
                    distinguished personages as might have been used. But the book is distinctly well illustrated. In
                    fact, the publishers have done their work well, as has the authoress, and the result is a book
                    admirable in every respect.
            A good index and a short bibliography, including many–though by no means all–of
                    the most important works upon Indiana history or phases of it, add to the value of the work.
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN.
         
      
   
