
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 90, Issue 2, pages 109-200. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:90+issue:2+year:1994&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            "A Little Nonsense Now and Then": Conventional Humor in Indiana, 1850
            Rowland Berthoff*
            
            "I should not object to gentlemen indulging in a frolic of this kind were there none but
                    Hoosiers here," a member of the Indiana constitutional convention of 1850–1851
                    remarked after passage of a mock resolution (to round up absent delegates) that had provoked what
                    the stenographer recorded as "roars of laughter, accompanied by loud knockings at the door,
                    which caused renewed laughter." Hoosiers might find it harmless, "but there are
                    strangers present," he cautioned, "and this conduct may produce an unfavorable
                    impression on their minds."1
            
            Indiana wit has been impressing the rest of the country ever since, not always unfavorably, even
                    where "hoosier" connotes something like "redneck" or
                    "cracker"; in 
                        Ohio
                     in 1850 it was "Hoosier-kill-'em-all," close to the sense of
                    the original northern English "hoozer."2 For representative
                    mid-nineteenth-century Indianans in convention assembled, to be a Hoosier was to be sly in something
                    of the outwardly obtuse manner more recently exploited by such comedians as Herb Shriner or David
                    Letterman. Did it inspire the writers of the television series "Cheers," when
                    casting a shrewdly naïve assistant bartender, to have "Woody" come from 
                        Posey County
                    , deep in "the Pocket" of Indiana? As for the latest of five
                    vicepresidents from Indiana, Dan Quayle's odd locutions may prove less memorable than Tom
                    Marshall's aphorism about the five-cent cigar, but they have the ring, however inadvertent,
                    of traditional 
                  
                     * Rowland Berthoff is William Eliot Smith professor of
                            history emeritus, 
                                Washington
                             University, 
                        St. Louis, Missouri
                     .
                  
                     1
                            Report of the Debates and Proceedings of the Convention for the Revision of the
                                Constitution of the State of Indiana, 1850, (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1850–1851), I, 621 (Johnson Watts, 
                                Dearborn County
                             ). This work is hereafter referred to as Indiana Convention.
                  
                     2
                            Official Reports of the Debates and Proceedings of the 
                                    Ohio State
                                 Convention, Called to Alter, Revise or Amend the Constitution of the State,
                                Held at 
                                    Columbus
                                , commencing May 6, 1850, and at 
                                    Cincinnati
                                , commencing December 2, 1850 (
                                Columbus
                            , 1851), 350. This work is hereafter referred to as 
                        
                                    Ohio State
                                 Convention. David Hackett Fischer, Albion's
                                Seed: Four British Folkways in America (
                                New York
                            , 1989), 756–58.
               
                     Hoosierisms.3 In my own time, fifty years
                    ago, as a soldier (from Yankee northern 
                        Ohio
                    ), I was regularly convulsed by the laconic deadpan drawl of fellow-private Ira
                    Bernardi, a veritable embodiment of Hoosierdom, especially when he skewered the uncomprehending new
                    lieutenant obliged to eat with us at the single mess table on our Panamanian gun position.
            To be sure, most of the speeches embalmed in 2,078 double-column pages of unleaded minion
                    (7–point type) in the published Indiana debates of 1850–1851 are as drearily
                    verbose as those—also recorded verbatim—in of any of the other dozen states
                    that held constitutional conventions in the 1840s and 1850s. Virtually none indulge in the
                    "spread eagle" bombast of the time; instead, unlike the Fourth of July or
                    campaign-stump speaker, the plain-spoken delegates endeavored to bring the unconverted around to
                    their position on such controversial subjects as banks and business corporations, the public debt (a
                    pressing problem since the panic of 1837), term limits ("rotation in office"),
                    division of power between state and localities, the property rights of wives or of
                    blacks—indeed, exclusion of blacks from the state. Laying out fundamental republican
                    principles, historical precedents, and the expediency of this or that proposed policy left little
                    occasion in other states than Indiana for humor, and then usually of a well-worn sort. In 
                        Ohio
                     the delegate was a rare bird who applied the familiar joke about the guest in a country
                    tavern who insisted that butter and flies be served on separate plates to segregation of black
                    schoolchildren. "Scarcer than hen's teeth" and "in a Pickwickian
                    sense" were unusual enough to make Ohioans laugh.4
            
            In the Indiana convention such wit was much commoner and usually more original. If as composed a
                    speaker as John B. Niles (Dartmouth graduate, railroad lawyer, and chemistry professor) was no more
                    given to humor than his kind in 
                  Pennsylvania,
                            New York
               , or 
                        Massachusetts
                    , at least his speeches were less pedantic than some there.5 Even
                    the high-minded Robert Dale Owen (feminist 
                  
                     3 Vice-president Charles W. Fairbanks, who stood out as the
                            "uninspiring, distant, cold & ‘Indiana
                            Icicle,"’ was 
                                Ohio
                            -born and bred. Ralph D. Gray, ed., Gentlemen from Indiana:
                                National Party Candidates, 1836–1940 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19771, 173–74.
                  
                     4
                            
                        
                                    Ohio State
                                 Conuention, 312, 373, 683. For a survey of twenty-four conventions in
                            sixteen states over a longer period, see Rowland Berthoff, "Conventional Mentality:
                            Free Blacks, Women, and Business Corporations as Unequal Persons,
                            1820–1870," Journal of American History, LXXVI
                            (December, 1989), 753–84.
                  
                     5 See, for example, Indiana Convention, I,
                            182–88, 407–409; II, 1168–73. Compare to Proceedings and Debates of the Convention of the Commonwealth of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , to Propose Amendments to the Constitution, 1837–1838 (14
                            vols., 
                                Harrisburg
                            , 1837–1839), IX, 346–69, 377–93; Official Reports of the Debates and Proceedings in the State Convention, Assembled May
                                4th, 1853, to Revise and Amend the Constitution of the Commonwealth of 
                                    Massachusetts
                                
                      (3 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1853), III, 55–62; Proceedings and Debates of the
                                Constitutional Convention of the State of 
                                    New York
                                , Held in 1867 and 1868, in the City of 
                                    Albany
                                
                      (5 vols., 
                        Albany,
                                    N.Y.
                     , 18681, I,
                            267–72. For
               
                     but anti-black) and future vice-president Schuyler Colfax
                    (problack but anti-feminist) occasionally poked learned fun at their opponents.6
                    The ordinary farmers, editors, doctors, lawyers, courthouse politicians, and former assemblymen and
                    congressmen in the hall more than held their own.
            Parliamentary procedure in Indiana was sui generis. Although the rules of order,
                    the lex Parliamentaria, were the same as elsewhere, the stenographers'
                    square-bracketed interpolations record a style seldom heard anywhere else: not only the
                    "laughter" duly noted at long intervals in other states but frequent
                    "cheers and laughter," "much merriment all over the chamber,"
                    and "renewed applause." Speeches drew cries of approbation altogether peculiar to
                    Indiana: "consent! consent!"; "go on! go on!"; "aye,
                    that's it, that's it"; "go it, them's the
                    licks"; or, at least once, "spoke, spoke, spoke." Of course, there was
                    also "no consent!"7
            
            Not a few speakers, as they took the floor, responded to "the last gentleman up"
                    with mildly derisory, if still parliamentary, banter. A delegate who had earnestly rambled on, an
                    assembly veteran said, was like the soldier who, having prepared for "a march and a battle,
                    if not a siege and a campaign," brooked no restraint of "his patriotic ardor.
                        [Laughter.]"8 An orator struggling to wind up his remarks was
                    compared to a hooked fish: the longer he went on, the more he appeared to "flounder
                    ‘right smart’ and work to ‘get shut’ of the hook
                    &. [Laughter.]"9 A proposal to limit speeches to half an
                    hour—"to tie down four-mile nags"—led, on the other hand, to
                    the retort that it would be well for "the ponies, also, to be tied up to the
                        rack."10 On either side, such homely images might carry the day. A
                    delegate who denied any interest in banks other than banks of earth for raising potatoes and
                    pumpkins drew the accolade, "Go it, Dobson. You are ‘some punkins.’
                        [Laughter.]"11
            
            Convention-floor humor Hoosierized classic themes, from the image, already old in Plato's
                    time, of the "live eel in the frying-pan, finding the place rather too hot, [who] squirmed
                    himself out of the pan into the fire [Laughter and applause]" to Plutarch's
                    "fable of the boys and the frogs, though this may be sport to you it is death to
                        us."12 The chairman, joining in the fun, ruled an amendment out of
                        
                  John B. Niles (
                                La Porte County
                            ), see A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men of the
                                State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                            1880), II, 13th District, 46–47.
                  
                     6
                            Indiana Conuention, I, 457, 821–25. Robert Dale Owen (
                                Posey County
                            ) was reared in 
                                Scotland
                            , Schuyler Colfax (
                                St. Joseph County
                             ) in 
                                New York
                            .
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., I, 6–7, 259, 416, 419, 483, 826, 827; ibid., II, 2028.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., I, 259 (Thomas Smith, 
                                Ripley County
                            ); A Biographical Directory of the Indiana General Assembly:
                            Vol. I, 1816–1899 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1980), 364.
                  
                     9
                            Indiana Conuention, I, 553 (Benjamin Wolfe, 
                                Sullivan County
                            ).
                  
                     10
                     Ibid., I, 537 (Benjamin R. Edmonston, 
                                Dubois County
                            ).
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., II, 1988.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., I, 933 (William Huff, 
                                Spencer County
                            ); ibid., II, 1419 (David M. Dobson, 
                                Owen
                             and 
                                Greene
                             counties). See Kate Louise Roberts, ed., Hoyt's New
                                Cyclopedia of
                  
               
                     order for having no more difference from one already rejected
                    than the "distinction between ‘tweedle dum’ and ‘tweedle
                    dee.’ & [Laughter.]," words first applied more than a century before to
                    Handel and a rival composer.13 A little more up to date, "a cat in the
                    tub—a snake in the grass" doubled a metaphor from Webster's
                    "blue-backed speller."14 The 
                        Rush County
                     physician William A. Bracken seems to have been as early as anyone with the
                    since-celebrated oxymoron "one man is as good as another, if not a little better.
                        [Laughter.1"15 On the much discussed question of inequality between
                    men and women, on the other hand, a delegate was content to credit "a certain Methodist
                    divine" with ‘"I say, brethren, thank
                        God for that variation!’ [Prolonged laughter.]"16
                    In any case (here, the difference between imprisonment for fraud and for mere debt), facts had to be
                    faced: "AS the boy said, ‘I want to take the bull by the horns and push him off
                    the bridge, or have him push me off.’ [Laughter.] If," the aphorist added,
                    "I must take medicine, give it to me in all its strength and naked bitterness;
                    don't coat it over with molasses. [Renewed laughter.]"17
            
            Dubious historical precedents were ridiculed as very like the boy's boast of having
                    inherited his grandfather's jackknife: "‘It has had four new handles
                    and six new blades, but it is the same jack-knife yet.’"18
                    Last-ditch appeals in a losing cause suggested the tale of a man rescued from drowning who,
                    reflecting "that on the whole his ducking had been rather an unprofitable
                    operation," sued his rescuer "for pulling his hair."19 Another cautionary story, anticipating J. T. Trowbridge's popular "Darius
                    Green" by nearly twenty years, told of a man who jumped from a tree wearing a pair of
                    sheepskin wings but who had to admit, "‘Flying goes well enough, but it is a
                    little the roughest lighting prehaps.’ [Laughter.]"20
                    Wherever 
                  
                     Practical Quotations (
                                New York
                            , 19221, 272; John Bartlett, Familiar Quotations, ed. Justin
                            Kaplan (
                                Boston
                            , 1992), 82. Delegates listed from more than one county represented senatorial
                            districts.
                  
                     13
                            Indiana Convention, II, 1220 (George W. Carr, Lawrence County). See Angela
                            Partington, ed., The 
                                    Oxford
                                 Dictionary of Quotations (4th ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1992), 167. A southern 
                                Ohio
                             variant was "twiddledeedurn and twiddledumdee." 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Convention, 330.
                  
                     14
                     Indiana convention, I, 865 (John U. Pettit, 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             ). See Mitford M. Mathews, ed., A Dictionary of Americanisms on
                                Historical Principles (
                                Chicago
                            , 1951), 280.
                  
                     15
                            Indiana Conuention, II, 1636 (William A. Bracken, 
                                Rush County
                            ); Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men of the State
                                of Indiana, I, 4th District, 8. This antedates W. M. Thackeray's
                            "Irish philosopher" by ten years. Cornhill Magazine, I
                            (June, 1860), 632.
                  
                     16
                            Indiana Convention, I, 518 (Edward R. May, 
                                DeKalb
                             and 
                                Steuben
                             counties).
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., I, 326 (Pettit). Unelaborated, "take the bull by the
                            horns" dates from as early as 1825. Archer Taylor and Bartlett Jere Whiting, A Dictionary of American Proverbs and Proverbial Phrases,
                            1820–1880 (
                        Cambridge,
                                    Mass.
                     , 1958), 46–47.
                  
                     18
                            Indiana Convention, I, 146 (Pettit).
                  
                     19
                     Ibid., I, 417 (David Kilgore, 
                                Delaware County
                            ).
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., I, 819 (William F. Sherrod, 
                                Orange
                             and Crawford counties). See Roberts, ed., Hoyt's New
                                Cyclopedia, 11.
               
                    
                    
                  JOHN B. NILES
                  
               
                    
                  JOHN U. PETTIT
                  
                  Reproduced from A Biographical Dictionary of Eminent and Self-Made Men of the
                                State of Indiana (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880).
               
                     these motifs may have been heard before, they would all be
                    heard often again.
            Both the wild and the domestic fauna of Indiana figured in debate. A delegate accused of
                    inconsistency denied that (as Democrats once said of Henry Clay) he had 
                        & wired in and wired out,
                        And left a body still in doubt,
                        Whether the snake that made the track,
                        Was going South, or coming back.21
                  
                     Horses and oxen stood in as metaphors, in the advice offered by a Democrat, for the yet
                    unbridled new business corporations of the time; they all needed a tight rein: 
                        The best way to manage a horse is to commence restricting him when a colt. When very young
                            they should be handled gently, but bitted while the mouth is tender. If
                            you want gentle oxen, the best way is to yoke them whilst they are sucking calves, and tie
                            their tails together and let them go, and when they are grown up to oxen, any boy can manage
                            them; but if you do this when they get two or three years old they will probably break their
                            necks, or those of their owners. [Laughter.]& Mr. PETTIT (in his seat): Or pull
                            their tails off. [Renewed laughter.]22
                  
                     Against the growing power of corporations "a poor man," another Democrat
                    added, "will not have much more chance in this country than a cat would in hell without
                    claws. [vociferous applause, and shouts of ‘Say it again! Say it
                        again!’]"23
            
            Quite the opposite, a Whig warned; governmental regulation would only provide "material for
                    a regular political cat fight. [Laughter.]"24 Or, as another put it, it
                    would be a vain effort "to cage the most troublesome red headed wood pecker";
                    trying to force "a lousy dog out" would just let "another dog in. [Loud
                    laughter.]" (At that remark a dog's barking in the lobby "created much
                    confusion and merriment," the reporter noted, and "loud cries of ‘hear
                    him, hear him."’)25 In the same vein, a proposal that
                    candidates for clerk of courts be required to obtain certificates of competence from the judges was
                    put down as an "attempt to make a whistle out of a pig's tail. [Great
                        laughter.]"26 The rare delegate who objected to such remarks was
                    hooted at for playing "all the variations from & the five-keyed bugle down to the
                    penny whistle. [Laughter.]"27
            
            Would it be wise, as Democrats proposed, to limit the number of terms for which officeholders could
                    be reelected? "Where was the man," a Whig asked, "who had a good farm
                    horse that would work 
                  
                     21
                     Indiana Convention, II, 2029 (Milton Gregg, 
                                Jefferson County
                            ). 
                                Clay
                            's alleged inconsistency involved tariff policy. 
                        Jefferson, Missouri
                     , Inquirer, April 25, 1844.
                  
                     22
                            Indiana Convention, II, 1209 (Dobson, Pettit).
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., II, 1201 (George Tague, 
                                Hancock County
                            ).
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., I, 255 (Daniel Kelso, 
                                Ohio
                             and 
                                Switzerland
                             counties).
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., II, 1764 (William Steele, 
                                Wabash County
                             ).
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., I, 842 (Kelso).
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., I, 961 (William C. Foster, Sr., 
                                Monroe County
                             ).
               
                     well in his team, and plough his corn, and answer all his
                    purposes steadily and faithfully, and without any tricks" but who nevertheless traded it
                    for an unknown animal that might trample his corn, "break his waggon," and
                    "probably break his neck? [Shouts of ‘good!’
                    ‘good!’ and great applausel."28 The reply that it
                    might indeed be wise to replace an old horse with a young one the questioner ridiculed: would anyone
                    "put his lady and family at the rear end of a young colt? [Roars of laughter.]"29
            
            Although even so mildly ribald a remark was rare, it was all the more appreciated. The veteran
                    assemblyman and congressman John Pettit of 
                        Lafayette
                     expressed his willingness to "take the tail end of any committee"
                    (rather than the chair), fully confident that it "would be like a
                    Kangaroo—strongest in the hind quarters. [Laughter.]"30 If
                    anyone could find any logic in a certain amendment, he said on another occasion, "I give
                    you leave to kick my [loud laughter] head for a foot ball."31 When a
                    bill had been stalled in the General Assembly some years before, another old-timer recalled,
                    "they laid it over for one night, for the purpose, perhaps, of hugging it once more.
                        [Laughter.]"32 An opponent of giving wives separate title to
                    property, fearing it would increase the divorce rate tenfold, proclaimed "that the more we
                    can unite the male and the female, the better it will be for both [great merriment], and the happier
                    will be the female. [Boisterous laughter and applause.] I trust," he admonished,
                    "gentlemen will hold themselves in a little. [The Hall here resounded with the laughter and
                    applause of the members.]"33 Uniting the races was quite another
                    matter. Negroes, so William Foster claimed to know from his early days in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , "cannot be amalgamated, they cannot be dove-tailed in any point of view.
                    [Great laughter.]"34
            
            And there might be even more unspeakable differences among men. When a Whig complained that a
                    critical newspaper, "though professedly neutral in politics, is published by a
                    Democrat," another interposed, "It must be of the neuter gender," and yet
                    another, "(sotto uoce) Or perhaps the epicene. [Much
                        laughter.]"35 A commoner affliction might visit any speechmaker,
                    even Judge David Kilgore, the "
                        Delaware
                     Chief." An opponent jibed, "I find that when gentlemen rest over only
                    one night they come here pretty well filled up 
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., I, 289 (Steele).
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., I, 302 (Smith), 304 (Steele).
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., I, 18 (Pettit); Biographical Directory of the 
                                    United States
                                 Congress, 1774–1989 (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1989), 1639.
                  
                     31
                            Indiana Conuention, II, 2003 (Pettit).
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., I, 675 (John Zenor, 
                                Harrison County
                            ).
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., I, 500 (Tape).
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., I, 451 (Foster); personal data, Chris Bobbitt, 
                                Monroe County
                             Historical Museum, letter to author, May 4, 1993.
                  
                     35
                            Indiana Conuention, II, 2024 (Alexander C. Stevenson, 
                                Putnam County
                            ).
               
                    
                    
                  THOMAS A. HENDRICKS
                  
               
                    
                  DAVID KILGORE
                  
                  Reproduced from A Biographical Dictionary of Eminent and Self-Made Men of the
                                State of Indiana (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880).
               
                     with gas again. [Great laughter.]"36 Not everything that now reads a bit risibly was so intended. When eulogizing a deceased
                    colleague the future vice-president Thomas A. Hendricks, no humorist, observed that the man had
                    "complained of diarrhea, but continued in the discharge of his duties" until he
                    succumbed. No laughter was recorded.37
            
            Appeals to partisan authority got short shrift from the other side. When a Democrat recited at great
                    length Andrew Jackson's 1832 denunciation of banks, an elderly Whig growled, "Now
                    let us have the Song of Moses, after the Israelites had crossed the Red Sea.
                        [Laughter.]"38 Any parading of erudition invited left-handed
                    compliments. "As great a misfortune as it is to be college bred," a member
                    grumbled, he was willing to concede that "it was better & than to have no breeding
                    at all. ['Consent'—'Laughter']."39 The workingman, so said the acerbic Dr. Foster, the autodidactic erstwhile
                    trustee of Indiana University, was at least the equal of "some men of letters who had not
                    five ideas above an oyster."40 The mere theorist without practical
                    experience could take warning from ex-congressman Pettit that next spring the cows might mistake him
                    "for a cowslip and devour him as something very green. [Laughter.]"41
            
            There were occasional dialect stories, but aimed at political opponents, not at the misspoken
                    Irishman or "Dutchman," not even at blacks. When one speaker wandered from the
                    subject, he reminded the onetime Philadelphian Foster of a certain preacher who, having been invited
                    to address a Negro congregation (where he delivered what to his mind was an excellent sermon) was
                    taken aback to overhear "dat de white brudder had talked away a long time in a blundering
                    manner, after a fashion."42 It was much commoner to criticize other
                    delegates for "speaking for Buncombe"—for home consumption
                    only—even, as Kilgore put it, "buncombe up to the very hubs. [A
                        laugh.]"43 (But who but constituents, a common-sensical member
                    asked, should an elected representative speak to? In this Indiana convention, for that matter, there
                    was sure to be present a native of 
                  Buncombe County,
                            North Carolina
               , to protest members' making
                    it "the scapegrace of all their sins.")44
            
            
               
                  36
                        Ibid., I, 633 (Tame); ibid., II, 1133 (Beattie McClelland, 
                            Randolph County
                        ), 1952 (Pettit).
               
                  37
                        Ibid., I, 556 (Thomas A. Hendricks, 
                            Shelby County
                         ).
               
                  38
                        Ibid., I, 221–22 (Daniel Read, 
                            Monroe
                         and 
                            Brown
                         counties), 222 (James Rariden, 
                            Wayne County
                         ).
               
                  39
                        Ibid., I, 860 (Watts).
               
                  40
                        Ibid., I, 954, 961 (Foster); Thomas D. Clark, Indiana Uniuersity:
                            Midwestern Pioneer; Vol. I, The Early Years (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1970), 65–67.
               
                  41
                  Indiana Conuention, I, 149 (Pettit).
               
                  42
                  Ibid., I, 39 (Foster).
               
                  43
                        Ibid., II, 1660 (Kilgore).
               
                  44
                        Ibid., I, 546 (Grafton F. Cookerly, 
                            Vigo County
                        ), 551 (Edmonston); ibid., II, 1209 (Dobson).
            
            
            The best way to send up an opponent was to make him the butt of a good story. Would his proposal
                    "do more harm than good"? Then he was like the old woman who assisted a man who
                    had fallen from his horse, "brushing off the mud very carefully and helping him to
                    remount&; for fear that he was not properly seated, she had to give him an extra shove,
                    which sent the old man off on the other side, where he fell deeper into the mud than
                        before."45 Were some proposing to make law from exceedingly hard
                    cases? They "might as well say, that, because a man has had a great deal of trouble in
                    building him a house, or in clearing him a farm, nobody else shall ever build another house or clear
                    another farm in the State of Indiana. [Laughter and cries of ‘Hear him! hear
                    him!’]." Thus encouraged, the speaker narrowed the image to an unneighborly man
                    "building him a house in the woods, and he gets his logs together, and gets them all up,
                    and he immediately decides against ‘log rolling.’ [Laughter.]"46
            
            Such cautionary tales were not, however, to be taken too literally. Although members might recall
                    that as boys they perhaps had begun by picking up apples by the wayside and ended by stoning the
                    farmer out of his orchard, it did not necessarily follow that no politician, given enough time in
                    office, could resist dipping into the public funds.47 That a metaphor was only a
                    figure of speech was, indeed, the point of Foster's tale of 
                        an old Scotch parson [who] had a deacon or clerk by the name of Jemmy McFarland [and whol
                            said to his people, "Ye are all my sheep now, and Jemmy McFarland is my wee dog to
                            help keep the sheep in order." & Upon this Jemmy roused himself, and
                            looking up into the face of the parson, he replied: "I am nae mair a dog than you
                            are, sir." "Hoot, awa' mon," said the parson,
                            "I am speaking but in the way of a parable."48
                  
                     The record does not show that delegate Joel McFarland took offense.
            A little self-mockery did no harm. Professing not be be "one of the speech-makers of this
                    Convention," Edward R. May, a young Yale graduate practicing law in 
                        Angola
                     and actually one of the principal raconteurs, likened himself to the
                    "Irishman's owl": 
                        A certain Frenchman once had a parrot of which he was wonderfully proud. He had taught his
                            parrot to talk a little—to scream out "fire!"
                            "fire!" and some other phrases, not perhaps proper for this refined
                            audience to listen to, all which, you may be sure, made the Frenchman vain enough of its
                            wonderful qualities. In his little crowd of listeners, one day, was an Irishman, who
                            interrupted the Frenchman's eulogies by remarking to the
                            "jintleman" that he had a bird at home which could
                            "bate" any man's "b-i-r-r-d" any day.
                            "Was it a parrot?" the Frenchman asked. "My bird is an
                            owl," said the Irishman, and then went on to tell how his owl would ruMe up his
                            feathers, and prick up his ears, and look as wise and consequential as a judge or an 
                        
                           45
                           Ibid., I, 113(Dobson).
                        
                           46
                           Ibid., I, 935 (Thomas Gootee, Martin
                                    County).
                        
                           47
                           Ibid., I, 281 (Dobson), 284 (Foster).
                        
                           48
                           Ibid., I, 284 (Foster).
                     
                             ex-Congressman. "But," asked the
                            Frenchman, "can your owl talk like my parrot, sir?"
                            "NO," says the Irishman, "my bird cannot talk very much, but he
                            keeps up a devil of a thinking!" [Much laughter.]
                     So too, said May, did he.49
            
            Like the Irish "bull," a "Dutch anecdote could serve to deflate an
                    opponent. What he considered the vacuousness of certain speeches suggested to the 
                        Pennsylvania
                    -born Foster "an incident that occurred some years ago": 
                        A very honest Dutchman was invited to a party by a neighbor who moved in a little higher
                            circle than that in which he was accustomed to move. He determined to accept the invitation,
                            and thought he would conduct himself with great propriety. He said to himself that, when he
                            would go to the door, he would knock very politely, and inquire: Is the Colonel at home?
                            That he would then pay his respects to the lady of the house; and, once obtaining admission,
                            he would pay particular respects to the young ladies. Well, he had all this in his mind, was
                            perfectly prepared to conduct himself with great propriety, dressed himself in his best
                            clothes, went to this neighbor's house, knocked at the door, and, by some
                            unfortunate accident, had forgotten all his previous arrangements; and all that he could say
                            when his knock was answered was, "Who keeps the house?" [Laughter and
                                applause.]50
                  
                    
            
            Incredibly promising schemes, such as one that claimed that the State Bank would, as a Democratic
                    opponent put it, be "making money [taken] from the people for the benefit of the
                    people," reminded him of a story he had "once heard: 
                        An aged farmer who was excessively proud of his children, and was always lauding their
                            sharpness and capacity for business and trade, praised in a very particular manner one
                            transaction which occurred between his three sons. It was a very rainy morning, and they
                            could not work out of doors. They went, however, to the barn to attend to their cattle
                            before breakfast, and that being done they went to trading with each other. Well, all the
                            capital they had to trade upon was their jackets, and by way of showing their skill in
                            bargaining they sold and re-sold, and swapped and reswapped their jackets until each one had
                            gained three dollars profit on his operations, and when all was concluded each had his own
                            jacket. [Laughter and applause.]51
                  
                    
            
            Simple answers to what seemed intractable problems, such as the proposal to bar free blacks from
                    entering Indiana, reminded even a delegate sympathetic to it of "an anecdote which I once
                    heard of a Kentuckian. [Cries of ‘hear him, hear him,’ and
                    ‘let's have it’]": 
                        Well, the man in 
                                Kentucky
                             was thanking his Maker for the good soil, and the extensive range, and the
                            large quantities of corn they raised; yet, he said, there was one important obstacle in the
                            way of continued success. He remarked to the Lord that the Indians discommoded them very
                            much. "Well, now," says he, speaking to the Lord, "What shall we
                            do with them? We cannot rid ourselves of the difficulty. Nothing 
                        
                           49
                                    Ibid., I, 516, 518 (May); Biographical Directory of
                                        the Indiana General Assembly, I, 267. May had the distinction of being the
                                    only delegate to vote for black suffrage. Indiana Conuention, I,
                                    239, 245, 253–54.
                        
                           50
                                    Indiana Conuention, II, 1462 (Foster).
                        
                           51
                                    Ibid., II, 1455–56 (Pettit).
                     
                             short of Thy power can do it. Thou canst take them and
                            curse them, and damn them, and blow them up like peelings of onions." [Roars of
                                laughter.]52
                  
                     On the other hand, convoluted discussion of so trivial a question as whether to move to
                    another hall recalled to a former assemblyman a two-day debate, at a cost to the taxpayers of
                    $300, over buying a $1.50 thermometer for the House: 
                        And one member & absolutely opposed the proposition on the ground that he did not
                            believe there were ten members in the House who knew how to wind the d—d thing
                            up, or set it right if it should get out of order, and that it would become necessary to
                            hire an extra hand to keep it properly regulated.
                     The tale, for the truth of which others vouched, raised "much
                        laughter."53
            
            Among the delegates themselves such denseness seems to have been more than a joke. One notion, which
                    hardly occurred to anyone in other state conventions, simply would not down no matter how often its
                    weakness was exposed. It concerned eminent domain, the power of government or a corporation
                    chartered by it to seize private property needed for a new canal or railroad. Elsewhere usually the
                    only question was whether the required fair compensation should be paid before or after
                    construction. In Indiana, procorpo-rate speakers not only beat back demands that payment come first,
                    they insisted that the eventual benefits that the property owner would enjoy made it unnecessary to
                    compensate him at all. In other states the fallacy, once explained, seems to have been obvious: that
                    neighbors whose land was not taken would enjoy the same benefits without any loss.
                    In Indiana this had to be repeated half a dozen times in the course of a five-day debate; not until
                    someone thought to ask how the property owner would benefit if all his land were
                    seized did the point get through. Were those Hoosiers who clung so long to the notion deliberately
                    evasive (even the astute Niles tried to raise it again much later), or were they as peculiarly
                    obtuse as they seem?54
            
            Most propositions, to be sure, were debated as plainly, pro or con, as anywhere else in the nation.
                    Owen's resolution for more equal property rights for wives, successive versions of which
                    failed by only a few votes, occasioned an intense twelve-day debate stretching over four months.55 Amid all the impassioned, sometimes sentimental, sometimes bitter appeals for
                    protection of mistreated wives and widows, the integrity of the family, and recognition of
                    women's alleged "nature," a comic set-piece by George Tague of 
                        Greenfield
                    , May's chief rival as a calculated humorist, provided a 
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., I, 633 (Steele).
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., II, 1227 (Gregg).
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., I, 353–62, 363–75, 382–94,
                            396–420, 422–32, 436–38; ibid., II, 1814.
                  
                     55
                     Ibid., I, 114–16, 462–86,
                            497–535, 797–99, 805–30; ibid., II,
                            1153–96, 1387–88, 1875, 1896–1900,
                        2011–13.
               
                     generally welcome interlude. Tague's speech included a
                    story suggesting that a little husbandly tact would be enough to make Owen's reform
                    unnecessary: 
                        A gentleman was once married to a lady of considerable property, who was himself poor.
                            Immediately after the marriage, he fixed his house up in fine order, selecting expensive
                            furniture, and paying for it with the lady's money. Afterwards, upon a certain day,
                            they had many visitors to call on them, and the husband was showing the furniture of the
                            house, and everything that was splendid and valuable, in the equipage, with which he was
                            furnished, and calling it all his own.—My fine sideboard, my splendid carpet,
                            &c.: and, no doubt, he did very wrong to talk in this way. Well, after the visitors
                            had left, the lady took occasion to tell the husband that he should have said,
                            "these are our things;" and not that "they are my
                            things:" and there was certainly some justice and right in this appeal. But
                            finally, they got into a quarrel, and then they got to fighting about the matter; and the
                            lady, happening to have more physical strength than the gentleman, she actually flogged him
                            like all natur—[a laugh]—she got the advantage of him so far that she
                            absolutely kicked him out of doors, and shut the door in his face. The gentleman, finding
                            himself badly whipped, gathered himself up and sat upon a stump near by—(that is
                            the way they tell the story). There he studied about the matter, and finally determined to
                            leave the lady who had taken it upon herself to treat him so harshly. But how was he to
                            proceed? He was kicked out of doors, and his hat was still in the house. He could not leave
                            without his hat; so he marched up, cautiously, and slipped open the door, just far enough to
                            speak to his conqueror, and, looking in timidly upon his wife, he ventured to say to her,
                            "My dear, will you please to hand me our hat:" [Merriment.] Well, the
                            manner of this salutation of her husband, rather pleased the lady. She was pleased with the
                            idea of his coming over to her views, so far as to say "our;" and it put a
                            smile upon her face; and, seeing a smile upon the face of his wife, the gentleman at once
                            gave over his resolution to leave. And, from that day to this, (as the story concludes,)
                            when speaking of anything pertaining to the common house-hold interest, he has never
                            forgotten to say "our." [Renewed merriment.]
                     Tague on another occasion excused himself as, "by birth, a Dutchman [who] cannot
                    speak the English language with the plainness that should always mark the efforts of public
                    speakers"—actually, he was born in 
                        North Carolina
                     of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     German ancestry. "A Dutchman," he claimed, "is permitted to
                    speak twice upon a subject, and & to occupy the floor until he can make himself
                        understood."56
            
            Storytelling was infectious. Even the austerely intellectual Owen, when objecting to an incongruous
                    amendment to a proposed section, resorted to the tale of "a school boy who was very fond of
                    fruit." 
                        He walked into the room of the schoolmaster, and found there a magnificent bunch of grapes.
                            He coveted the grapes, and his mouth began to water to taste them. Said he, "If
                            anybody knows any just cause or impediment why these grapes and my mouth should not be
                            joined together in the holy bonds of matrimony, let him declare it, or henceforth forever
                            hold his peace." No response being heard he proceeded to devour the grapes. The
                            schoolmaster happened at that moment to be entering the 
                        
                           56
                                    Ibid., I, 417, 500–501, 633 (Tague); Biographical Directory of the Indiana General Assembly, I, 382; personal
                                    data, Eric L. Mundell, Indiana Historical Society, letter to author, March 13,
                                1993.
                     
                             room, and having heard what had been said by his pupil,
                            he proceeded to adopt the same formula. Seizing a rod he said: "If any body knows
                            any just cause or impediment why this rod and this boy's back should not be joined
                            together in holy matrimony, he will now declare it." Said the boy, "I
                            do." "What is the reason?" demanded the master.
                            "Because," said the boy, "the parties do not agree."
                            [Laughter] Now it is exactly so in regard to this amendment and the section. The parties do
                            not agree.
                     If the parable was weak, the fact that Owen used it may have helped defeat the questionable
                        amendment.57
            
            Two quite serious proposals for reform were offered, and rebutted, in deliberately humorous style.
                    Tague, seeking to free litigants from the time and expense imposed by courts and lawyers, put his
                    motion for greater equity in terms of "abolishing the common law of 
                        England
                    ."58 A barrage of light-hearted amendments followed: to
                    abolish it "in
                    
                        England
                    "; "forever to abolish logic and the mathematics"; to add
                    "and also Queen Victoria and the Fugitive Slave Law"; "and abolish the
                    practice of manipulating [Roars of laughter]"; "and the chills and
                    fever"; to "inform Her British Majesty, by telegraph, that the common law in 
                        England
                     is abolished" ("agreed to, amidst renewed shouts of
                    merriment"); and "SO as to make hickory bark peel the whole year round &.
                    MANY VOICES: ‘Consent."’59 Promptly reported out
                    of committee of the whole "with forty amendments," Tague's resolution was
                    mercifully tabled.60
            
            A much longer debate was accorded a related but straightforward resolution that legislation should be
                    "‘plainly worded, avoiding, as far as practicable, the use of technical terms in
                    the Latin, or in any other than the English language’. [Cries of ‘No!
                    no!’ and ‘Consent.’]"61 Although the
                    learned Niles objected that English had been vastly enriched by foreign words, the proposal was
                    approved, 109–21, on first reading. To lawyers' pleas that viva
                        uoce, ex post facto, and certiorari were indispensable, a young delegate
                    from 
                        Wells County
                     retorted that "Dutch phrases" would be better understood there;
                    though not German himself, he obliged a challenger with the information that "the Dutch for
                        viva voce is lebendige. sprach."62
                Another member chimed in that Latin ‘"jaw-breakers,’ as
                    we call them—[a voice—'that's the word,' and
                    ‘go ahead,’ and ‘knock ’em down']—
                    & are put into our statutes to prevent the honest yeomanry of the country from understanding
                    them. [Ironical cheers.]"63
            
            
               
                  57
                        Indiana Conuention, II, 1401–1403 (Owen).
               
                  58
                        Ibid., I, 66 (Tague).
               
                  59
                        Ibid., I, 722 (Thomas W. Gibson, 
                            Clark County
                        ), 723 (Samuel I. Anthony, 
                     Lake, La Porte
                  , and 
                            Porter
                         counties), 724 (Robert H. Milroy, 
                            Carroll County
                        ; Foster; Kilgore; Alvin P. Hovey, 
                            Posey County
                        ; Joseph H. Mather, 
                            Elkhart
                         and 
                            Lagrange
                         counties).
               
                  60
                        Ibid., I, 724.
               
                  61
                  Ibid., II, 1128.
               
                  62
                        Ibid., II, 1128–29, 1130 (Erastus K. Bascom, 
                            Wells
                         and 
                            Adams
                         counties); personal data, Jim Foster, 
                            Wells County
                         Historical Society, letter to author, May 3, 1993.
               
                  63
                  Indiana Conuention, II, 1131 (Steele).
            
            
            But did not every trade and profession have its jargon? A printer, if a newspaper paragraph was to be
                    believed, might instruct one of his compositors in no less arcane language: 
                        Tom, put General Washington on the galley, and then finish the murder of the young girl you
                            commenced yesterday. Set up the ruins of Herculceneum—distribute the small-pox,
                            and you need not finish that runaway match—have the high water in the paper this
                            week. Let the pie alone till after dinner—put the barbecue to press, and then go
                            to the devil and he will tell you about the work for the morning.64
                  
                     Still, if both lawyers and printers would agree to speak more plainly, a farmer-delegate
                    offered to "dispense with ‘gee,’ and ‘haw,’ and
                    to say ‘go right,’ or ‘go left.’ [Great laughter.]
                    & We will dispense with ‘wo,’ and say ‘stop,’ or
                    _________ _________ _________ [The nearest the reporter can get at the expression is zie, zie, zie,]
                    and to use the words ‘go along.’ [Renewed laughterl."65 After Irish-born delegate Beattie McClelland suggested simple translations for nisi prius, nunquam indebitatus, probus et legales homo, volenti non fit injuria,
                    and half a dozen more bits of "‘Law Latin’"—all
                    as corrupt, he said, as "‘College Latin,’ ‘Medical
                    Latin,’ & and ‘Dog Latin’ [Great applause and
                    laughter]"—a lawyer-delegate moved that "all names commencing with
                    ‘Mac’ shall be hereafter rendered into good English. [Continued laughter and
                        applause.]"66
            
            Daniel Read, professor of classics at the state university, objected that it would make about as much
                    sense to say that, instead of "oxygen" and "hydrogen," "sour making and water making are the elements which
                    form water." He found, in fact, ten words with Latin roots in the resolution before the
                    house. "[A Voice. Well strike them all out.]"67 Latin legal
                    terms, another agreed, were merely names that no more needed translation than
                    "cow" needed to be called an "‘animal with horns, which gives
                    milk, and has a long tail,’ [laughter]" or "‘hog &
                    an animal with bristles, which has a strong disposition to grunt.’
                        [Laughter.]"68 (The amended section was nevertheless approved on
                    second reading, 104–19.)69 Subsequent discussion of the bill of
                    rights produced, as an equivalent for habeas corpus, "have the
                    body" (hostile amendment: "have his carcass") as well as, by the
                    college-bred and for once quite serious May, "writ of deliverance."
               70 (In the end the resolution failed, and both
                        habeas corpus and ex post facto appeared in the
                        constitution.)71
            
            
               
                  64
                  Ibid., II, 1132 (Hiram Prather, 
                            Bartholomew
                         and 
                            Jennings
                         counties).
               
                  65
                  Ibid.; Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men of
                            the State of Indiana, I, 3rd District, 30.
               
                  66
                  Indiana Conuention, II, 1133–34
                        (McClelland), 1137 (John S. Newman, 
                            Wayne County
                         ); personal data, Monisa Wisener, Historical and Genealogcal Society of 
                            Randolph County
                        , letter to author, July 6, 1993.
               
                  67
                        Indiana Conuention, II, 1134 (Read); Clark, Indiana
                        Uniuersity, I, 73, 88.
               
                  68
                        Indiana Conuention, II, 1135 (Kelso).
               
                  69
                  Ibid., II, 1141.
               
                  70
                        Ibid., II, 1382 (McClelland, Gibson), 1385 (May).
               
                  71
                        Ibid., II, 2067.
            
            
            May's speech supporting Owen's resolution for equality for women also had a serious
                    purpose, asking "woman to recollect that from the exercise of man's rights and
                    privileges would result certain duties, from the performance of which she must not seek to
                    shrink." He could not, however, resist poking a little ingratiating fun at himself.
                    Confession that he was an "old bachelor" (of thirty-two), he said,
                    "Perhaps, sir, this is not the first time that a member has argued himself into a
                    conviction that he fully understands a subject concerning which others can see that he really knows
                    nothing at all [great laughter]." He intended to "vote, sir, as I should wish
                    woman to vote, were I to put the question to her, as man sometimes puts the question. I shall vote,
                    ‘aye,’ every time [Renewed merriment.]" He concluded by requesting
                    that his stand-up monologue not be recorded "[Cries of ‘no consent,’
                    ‘no indeed.’]," lest his constituents think him not only "a
                    little ‘cracked"’ on the subject but, "as the Scotchmen say,
                    ‘gane clean daft,’ the English of which, I believe, is ‘stark
                    staring mad’ [laughter.]" The members let it stand.72
            
            The most extraordinary piece of mockery—in the Indiana convention or in any other of the
                    time—protested a two-day intrusion of national politics into the drafting of the state
                    constitution. A Whig resolution, intended to split pro- and antislavery Democrats and Free Soilers,
                    called on all sections and parties to adhere to the just-enacted federal Compromise of 1850, most
                    specifically the Fugitive Slave Act.73 Only superficially in fun, attorney
                    Joseph H. Mather of 
                        Goshen
                    —who, as "one of the youngest [age twenty-five] and least
                    experienced members," usually confined himself to minor procedural
                    motions—remonstrated, although a Whig himself, by moving a substitute
                    "resolution as is a resolution": 
                        THAT WHEREAS, Abby Kelly Folsom [sic], and 
                                Elwood
                             Fisher, George Thompson of 
                                England
                            , Wendell Phillips and wife of 
                                Boston
                            , General Quattlebum [sic] of 
                                South Carolina
                            , Gen. Quitman and wife of 
                                Mississippi
                            , and others, are designing and traitorous men, and are raising a particular
                            fuss generally, at this particular period of time; therefore, this Constitutional meeting,
                            in Convention assembled, declares: 
                        1. That the Union am in danger.
                        2. That from and after the first of January next, there shall be a general time of
                                    peace and whoever shall attempt to contravene this decree, shall be hung without
                                    benefit of clergy.
                        3. That a copy of these resolutions be sent to the Superintendent of each Asylum
                                    for Insane in the 
                                        United States
                                    .
                     
                  
                     The resolution was "received amidst much merriment"—but
                    quickly tabled, although a motion to expunge it as a blot on the journal 
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., I, 517, 519 (May). Married the next year, May and his wife died
                            three years later in 
                                Minnesota
                            . Biographical Directory of the Indiana General Assembly, I,
                            267.
                  
                     73
                            Indiana Convention, I, 744, 865–929; Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918), I, 517–18.
               
                     was also rejected. (The partisan scheme failed in that its
                    stated principle of obedience to law, any law, prevailed too easily [go-261. Mather, however, along
                    with Colfax and three others, two of them also soon to be Republicans, explicitly "declined
                        voting.")74
            
            For a splenetic 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaper to accuse the delegates of consuming "‘hour after hour
                    & in fun, revelry, vulgar anecdotes, stamping, hallooing, &c.’"
                    was justified only by comparison to other state conventions.75 Still, there were
                    times when "stamping of feet and thumping on the benches, and a variety of other
                    noises" (to the point, as the stenographer duly noted, of "disorder
                    unabated") forced certain cantankerous Whigs, helplessly fulminating about the Democratic
                        "mob," to relinquish the floor.76 The
                    more resilient veteran Pettit retaliated, when the day came for general good feeling and formal
                    votes of thanks, by moving to acknowledge some delegates "for their lucid and instructive
                    speeches, and others for their consummate impudence, and others for being quiet and doing nothing at
                    all&.[NOT adopted]."77
            
            Earlier, far more dire results had been predicted: that the debates, when published, would prove
                    "the greatest slaughter-house of politicians ever erected in the State &. The
                    self-forged weapons & will hereafter be known by the title of FOWLERS BOOK OF MARTYRS
                    [immoderate laughter], illustrated and embellished by the portraits of about one hundred and forty
                    of the victims & [Roars of laughter.]."78 The only regret of
                    the historian, after laboring through the heavier stretches of debates recorded in other states, is
                    that the promised Indiana portraits are missing after all. They might have helped explain these
                    Hoosiers, so many of whom have left little personal data other than their spoken words.
            Is it perhaps significant that some of the wittiest were "born and raised not in Indiana nor
                    in 
                        Virginia
                    , the Carolinas, 
                        Kentucky
                    , or 
                        Ohio
                    , the usual sources, but in 
                  Connecticut, New York
               , or 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ?79 Delegates to conventions back home seldom spoke as they did. Did
                    Indiana make Hoosiers of them? Or is their Hoosier character—and that which
                    endures—a special distillation of the American vernacular of their time, much of it now
                    lost even to compilers 
                  
                     74
                            Indiana Convention, I, 195, 894 (Mather), 917 (Rariden); personal data,
                            Raymond Jorgerson, 
                                Elkhart County
                             Historical Museum, letter to author, May 24, 1993. The 
                                Goshen
                            , Indiana, Democrat commented, "Next move, we
                            suppose, for Joseph, will be to take the ‘assembled wisdom’ out a
                            sniping." December II, 1850. Mather died in 1859.
                  
                     75
                            Indiana Convention, I, 745.
                  
                     76
                            Ibid., II, 1589 (Cookerly), 1735 (Rariden).
                  
                     77
                            Ibid., II, 2014 (Pettit).
                  
                     78
                            Ibid., I, 380–81 (Gregg).
                  
                     79 May, 
                        Hartford,
                                    Conn.
                     ; Pettit, Sackets Harbor, 
                                N.Y.
                            ; Mather, Minisink, 
                                N.Y.
                            ; Foster, 
                        Philadelphia, Pa.
                     
                            Biographical Directory of the Indiana General Assembly, I, 267; Biographical Directory U.S. Congress, 1639; An Illustrated
                                Historical Atlas of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1874), 49; Indiana Convention, I, 451.
               
                     of dictionaries of quotations? Whatever the answer, the young
                    Yale-bred lawyer Edward May summed up as well as anyone what has distinguished many a Hoosier, even
                    some Hoosier statesmen, then and since: 
                        A little nonsense now and then
                        Is relished by the wisest men.80
                  
                     In Indiana, as nowhere else, deliberate nonsense was cause for unsuppressed merriment.
            
               
                  80
                        Indiana Conuention, I, 519 (May). The couplet has been attributed to a
                        pre-nineteenth-century nursery rhyme. Burton Stevenson, ed., The Home Book of
                            Quotations, Classical and Modern (
                            New York
                        , 1947), 1409.
            
         
         
         
            Abraham Van Vleet and the Early Press of 
                        Fayette County
                    , Indiana
            Fredric Brewer*
            
            One morning in 1823 a wagon burdened with a printing press and hundreds of pounds of type creaked out
                    of 
                  Lebanon, Ohio
               , and passed through the clearings of Turtle Creek
                    Valley. Abraham Van Vleet (1783–1832), a printer, was headed for Indiana. He
                    was not unlike other printers who found their way to the new West of early nineteenth-century
                    America, ever seeking a virgin locale in hopes that it would offer financial rewards which the
                    previous place had not, there to establish a newspaper, an urge that seemed to be stamped in the
                    sinews of migratory printers. After all, as one pioneer publisher in 
                        Ohio
                     mused, who "would not take a newspaper & who would refuse to pay for
                    it[?]" But reality quickly replaced optimism.1
            
            
               "Cash," wrote Nathaniel Bolton of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette, "is an article that printers do not often see."
                    Pleading with their subscribers to pay up, Copeland Arion and John Lodge of the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Indiana Republican said "it cannot be expected that we can subsist on
                    water and air alone." In 
                        Vincennes
                    , Elihu Stout of the Western Sun carried subscribers on the cuff for
                    years, now and then reminding them that he "wants to be paid—he well recollects
                    the old adage, and he thinks it cannot be applied to him—'he is a cross dog that
                    bites before he barks' as he has been growling and barking at some of his subscribers for
                    some time &." After sixteen months of sharing the financial responsibilities of the 
                        Connersville
                    , Indiana, 
                  
                            Fayette
                         Obseruer, David Rench—an associate of 
                        Van
                     Vleet—made a gloomy appraisal of newspaper publishing. "Truly this
                    must be a very unhealthy occupation, especially in this state," he wrote, "and we
                    commiserate every unfortunate devil who may be engaged in it."2
            
            
               
                  * Fredric Brewer, a native of 
                            Huntington County
                        , Indiana, taught mass communications at Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , for twenty-five years before retiring in 1989. He is the author of "
                            Rushville
                        's Dog Fennel Gazette: Indiana's Mythical
                        Newspaper," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIX (March, 1993),
                        18–34.
               
                  1
                        
                            Ohio
                         has two communities named 
                            Lebanon
                        . This 
                            Lebanon
                         is the county seat of 
                            Warren County
                         in southwestern 
                     Ohio.
                                Chillicothe, Ohio
                  , Supporter, September 16, 1817.
               
                  2
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Gazette, July 15, 1823; 
                            Madison
                        
                        Indiana Republican, February 24, 1820; 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Western Sun, January 28, 1809; 
                            Connersville
                        
                        
                     
                                Fayette
                             Observer, October 3, 1827.
            
            
            But limited income was only one of the banes of publishing. Lack of paper was a common complaint. In
                    Indiana and elsewhere no pioneer newspaper held to a regular publishing schedule. In favorable
                    weather, little cash in the printer's till prevented stockpiling newsprint for which mill
                    owners wanted hard specie. Furthermore, printers had to go by the loose calendar of freight wagon
                    and river craft operators who brought paper to them. Inclement weather would hold up a shipment for
                    weeks. And coupled with these problems was the wanderlust inherent in many journeymen printers and
                    apprentices who bolted printing offices before completing their obligations. Mail service was
                    inefficient and erratic, and since western editors depended on exchange papers from the east for
                    national and world news, a common complaint was "No mail this week"; hence, no
                    news. Subscribers who lived at a distance from the printing office, thus receiving their paper by
                    mail, sometimes would go for weeks before seeing an issue. Snapped one Indiana editor: "The
                    [mail] contractors in this state have got into the mischievous habit of farming
                    out their business, and it often falls into the hands of ignorant, negligent, slothful, careless
                    fellows, who know no more of their business than the starved brutes upon which they ride &.
                    Until a different arrangement and peremptory change takes place in the Mail Department, printers and
                    their patrons must suffer from the brutality of those who have it in their power to perplex
                        them."3
            
            Although Indiana printers were some distance from printer supply houses, their presses were simple
                    yet sturdy in construction and virtually unchanged from the wood press developed by Johann Gutenberg
                    in the mid-fifteenth century. If the need arose, they could be repaired by a local blacksmith or
                    carpenter. Printers short on ink could make their own although the process was messy and srnelly.4
            
            Given the problems, frustrations, and low rewards of pioneer printing, it may seem puzzling that
                    Abraham Van Vleet sought a 
                  
                     3 Cold months were especially a trying time. Since water is necessary
                            in the paper-making process, vats in the few mills scattered across the western country were
                            often frozen solid, thus unable to produce the precious commodity. Even if printers had
                            newsprint in stock, the cold could throw up an impasse. "It was not uncommon
                            & to suspend work for several weeks," observed William H. P. Denny, who
                            apprenticed in 
                                Lebanon
                             under 
                                Van
                             Vleet. "The paper, when ‘wet down’ [to receive
                            inkl & would freeze as hard as an iceberg; the type in the form would be frozen
                            solid and the [ink] ‘balls’—sheepskins stuffed with wool
                            and tacked to handles—would be incased [sic] in ice in the
                            trough." The History of 
                           Warren
                                    County, Ohio
                        
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 468; 
                                Charlestown
                            
                            Indiana Intelligencer and Farmer's Friend, January 2, 1822; 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Indiana Centinel & Public Advertiser, November 20, 1820.
                  
                     4 Readers wishing more information about the nature and inherent
                            problems of pioneer newspapering as well as the tools employed in printing may wish to
                            consult Fredric Brewer, "Against All Adversities: The Pioneer Printers of 
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVII
                            (December, 1991), 303–33.
               
                     fresh horizon in Indiana. What drove him and other printers
                    ever westward? "Why did they cling so tenaciously to their chosen job?" asked
                    newspaper historian Douglas McMurtrie. "Why were they willing to endure all the hardships
                    of a pioneer printer's life? Why did they go on year after year, with very little
                    improvement in their status? I think it was because most of these printers were idealists. They had
                    seen, out in this western country, materials for the making of a new empire. They had caught some
                    vision of what these little towns could some day become, and one of the important services they
                    rendered to their communities was that of promotional salesmen."5
            
            A native of 
                  New Jersey, Van
                Vleet for some eleven years had been a journeyman
                    printer. He also had been part owner and occasional editor of the 
                        Lebanon
                    
                    Western Star, a weekly news sheet founded on February 13, 1807, by a young lawyer
                    named John McLean (1785–1861).6
            
            Like almost all pioneer newspapers, the Western Star struggled along under various
                    hands. Around 1814 
                        Van
                     Vleet acquired part interest in the weekly. In early January, 1817, he was joined by
                    William A. Camron, a roving printer who, four years earlier, had been associated with the Indiana
                    Territory's second newspaper, the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Western Eagle. Camron (also spelled Cameron) was with a number of 
                        Ohio
                     newspapers before and after his association with the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Lebanon
                     printing ofices. Another footloose printer, George Smith, was also connected with the
                        Star until he left in late 1816 to start a competing weekly, the 
                        Lebanon
                    
                    Farmer. Smith may have been the George Smith (1784?-1836) who was affiliated with
                    newspapers in 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    .7 In February, 
                  
                     5 Douglas C. McMurtrie, "The Contribution of the Pioneer
                            Printers to 
                                Illinois
                             History," Papers in 
                                    Illinois
                                 History and Transactions for the Year 1938 (
                        Springfield, Ill.
                     , 1939), 37–38.
                  
                     6
                            History ofFayette County, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 90; Clarence S. Brigham, "Bibliography of American Newspapers,
                            1690–1820. Part XI: 
                                Ohio
                            ," Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society,
                            XXIV (1919), 163–64, 175; The History of 
                           Warren County, Ohio
                        , passim; Osman Castle Hooper, History
                                of 
                                    Ohio
                                 Journalism, 1793–1933 (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     ,
                            1933), 28, 310 (Hooper erroneously gives July 4, 1806, as the Star's founding date); Reuben Gold Thwaites, The Ohio
                                    Valley Press Before the War of 1812–15
                                    (
                        Worcester, Mass.
                     , 1909), 37. McLean had left the Star by the time 
                                Van
                             Vleet arrived, having turned the office over to his brothers Nathaniel and
                            William, both of whom eventually quit. In 1823, McLean became postmaster general of the 
                                United States
                            , and in 1829 he was appointed by President Andrew Jackson to the 
                                United States
                             Supreme Court.
                  
                     7 Brigham, "Bibliography of American Newspapers,"
                            156, 163–64, 175, 177–78; Brigham, History and
                                Bibliography of American Newspapers, 1690–1820 (2 vols.,
                                    
                        Hamden, Conn.
                     , 1962), II, 806–808, 815; Hooper, History of 
                                    Ohio
                                 Journalism, 59, 69; The History of 
                                    Warren County
                                
                     , 310; Bert S. Bartlow, Centennial History of
                                        
                           Butler County, Ohio
                        
                      (n.p., 1905), 261; Sketches of 
                                    Springfield
                                
                      (
                        Springfield, Ohio
                     , 18521, 22, 25; Alfred E. Lee, History of the City of 
                                    Columbus
                                , Capital of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1892), I, 424; 
                        Chillicothe,
                                    Ohio
                     , Scioto
                                Gazette, June 24, 1829; "The Pioneers of 
                                Jefferson County
                            , Reminiscences of James B. Lewis, Esq.," undated manuscript, genealogy
                            files (
                                Madison
                            -
                                Jefferson County
                             Public Library, 
                                Madison
                            , Ind.); John
               
                     1819, Smith relocated the Farmer to
                            
                  Springfield, Ohio
               , and sold it two months later. Some time after the summer of
                    1820, he and stepson Nathanial Bolton (1803–1858) acquired printing equipment from lawyer
                    Reuben Nelson and printer Isaac Cox, who had used it to print their Corydon Indiana
                        Herald (1816–1818) and 
                        Jeffersonville
                    
                    Indianian (1818–1820). The press and type were freighted to 
                        Indianapolis
                     where, on January 28, 1822, Smith and Bolton started the Gazette, 
                        Indianapolis
                    's first newspaper. In 1825 Smith was appointed an associate circuit court
                    judge in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Besides being busy with the Star, 
                        Van
                     Vleet probably was the author and printer of The 
                            Ohio
                        , or Western Spelling Book (ca. 1814); in 1821, he compiled and printed The Justice and Township Officer's Assistant, a compendium of judicial
                    forms for constables, township officials, and justices of the peace. In January, 1822, he started a
                    magazine, the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Miscellaneous Museum, a monthly whose pages contained items reprinted from
                    various sources. The magazine did not survive past its fifth number. Despite the failure of the
                    magazine, as well as such setbacks as competition from the burgeoning and business-hungry printing
                    operations in nearby 
                        Cincinnati
                     and frequent personnel changes, the Western Star, unlike many news
                    sheets of the period, survived. If one pioneer's reaction to the weekly is a measure of the
                    paper's value and endurance, Western Star readers looked forward to each
                    issue. As a youth living eight miles from 
                        Lebanon
                    , David Stewart made a roundtrip on foot to 
                        Lebanon
                     each week to "get and carry back to a subscriber the Western
                    Star, their only source of news, that he might have the coveted privilege of perusing its
                        contents."8
            
            Unfortunately, 
                        Van
                     Vleet's Star was an instrument that fueled animosity toward
                    the Shakers, a prejudice that was more the rule 
                  H. B. Nowland, Early Reminiscences of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870), 91–92; 
                                Madison
                            , Ind., Western Eagle, September 10, 1813, April 18, 1814;
                            Ruth Dorrel, Pioneer Ancestors of Members of the Society of Indiana
                            Pioneers (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1983), 200; Austin H. Brown, "The First Printers in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, II (September, 1906),
                            121–26; W. P. Hendricks, 1889 Biographical and Historical Souuenir, 
                                    Jefferson County
                                , Indiana (
                                Knightstown
                            , Ind., 1977), 206; William H. Venable, Beginnings of Literary
                                Culture in the Ohio Valley
                      (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1891), 42; John W. Miller, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19821, 154. Although George Smith is a common name, it is noted that Clarence
                            Brigham in his exhaustive compilation of pioneer American printers (see citations above)
                            lists only one printer with that name.
                  
                     8
                            The History of 
                                    Warren County
                                
                     , 467. A copy of the Assistant is in the archives of
                            the Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ; The History of 
                                    Warren County
                                
                     , 467; History ofFayette County (1885), 90. The 
                                Wisconsin State
                             Historical Society possesses a full run of the Museum. The
                                Museum also is available on microfilm (APSII, reel 218, University
                            Microfilms, 
                        Ann Arbor, Mich.
                     ); The Western Star still
                            exists, making it one of the oldest, continuously published U.S. newspapers that fly the
                            original name and maintain the original frequency of publication. In 1836 David Stewart
                            would become the pastor of the Presbyterian church in Homer, Indiana (
                                Rush County
                            ). Stewart, who was born in 1809, lived in the 
                                Lebanon
                             area until early 1831. A Biographical History of Eminent and
                                Self-Made Men of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880), I, 6th District, 79.
               
                     than the exception in many parts of frontier America. Several
                    years before 
                        Van
                     Vleet arrived in 
                        Lebanon
                    , the United Society of the Believers in Christ's Second
                    Appearing—the so-called Shakers—established Union Village, a communal
                    settlement a few miles west of 
                        Lebanon
                     where the practice of celibacy was a cardinal principle. Shakers believed that only
                    through withdrawal from the world could a life without sin be realized. Union Village was a tidy,
                    industrious place whose population would grow, through converts, to about five hundred. Almost at
                    the beginning of the settlement the religious rituals of the Shakers, characterized in part by
                    rhythmical dancing (hence the appellation "Shaker"), and their communal lifestyle
                    made them suspect to their neighbors who, save for the Quakers among them, celebrated religion
                    openly, tumultuously, and hysterically at camp meetings, perching on logs in a clearing to clap and
                    shout encouragement to a circuit rider who, bellowing "like a scrub bull in a canebrake
                    during cocklebur season," assured them sulfurous fires awaited if they were not repentant.
                    During these open assemblies considerable emotional intensity developed with many attendants falling
                    in trances and others babbling "in tongues."9
            
            The Union Village Shakers were falsely accused of beating their children, castrating their males,
                    abusing their women, breaking up families of God-fearing folk, goading Indians to wage war, babbling
                    devil-talk, and dancing naked at their night meetings after which they blew out the candles and
                    "went into a promiscuous debauch." Trouble erupted in October, 1805, when several
                    roughnecks invaded Union Village and tore down fences, trampled orchards, broke windows, and set
                    fire to several buildings. This was the first of several ugly incidents. In 1810 about five hundred
                    men confronted the Shakers and made vulgar accusations. During 
                        Van
                     Vleet's tenure with the Western Star, Union Village was
                    invaded in 1813, 1817, and 1819, the mobs whipped to excitement by letters and articles in the Star, and there was still a fifth invasion the year after 
                        Van
                     Vleet left 
                        Lebanon
                    .10
            
            
               
                  9 Thomas D. Clark, The Rampaging Frontier: Manners and Humors
                            of Pioneer Days in the South and the Middle West (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1939), 145. In a letter to his daughter, Anna, John Cleves Symmes, founder of 
                            Cincinnati
                        , wrote: "One sect, Quakers, worship Him in silence sitting with hats on
                        from beginning to end of their meeting. Another sect, Methodists, worship Him by grunts and
                        groans, stamping, raving and roaring like so many bulls and wolves and crying amen, at every ten
                        or twenty words of the preacher. Another sect, Newlights, worship Him by screaming, clapping
                        hands, crying hell fire and damnation, as loud as they can yell, tumbling down, lying on their
                        backs. Another sect, the Shakers, say they worship God best by singing merry tunes and dancing
                        and hornpipes. They almost dance themselves to death, for they all look pale like so many
                        ghosts." Symmes's letter was written in the period September 11–17,
                        1809. His daughter was the wife of Indiana Territorial Governor William Henry Harrison. Beverley
                        W. Bond, Jr., The Correspondence of John Cleves Symmes (
                            New York
                        , 1926), 300.
               
                  10 J. P. MacLean, "Mobbing the Shakers of Union
                        Village," 
                     
                                Ohio
                             Archaeological and Historical Publications, XI (1903), 112–14,
                        130–31; Theodore E. Johnson, ed., "Violence at Turtle Creek," The Shaker Quarterly, XII (Fall, 19721, 109.
            
            
            At first, the Star enjoyed a business relationship with the Shakers and in 1808
                    printed for them a six hundred-page volume, Christ's Second Appearing,
                    whose object was "to inform the public, as well as novitiates, of the faith, doctrines, and
                    disciplines of the church." After John McLean left the Star, however, the
                    relationship began to fall apart; the newspaper became anti-Shaker. Historian Stephen J. Stein has
                    suggested that the Star under 
                        Van
                     Vleet's control "spearheaded the [Shaker] opposition in the
                    West." A frequent contributor of anti-Shaker letters to the Star was
                    James Smith, a Kentuckian whose opposition to the sect was ignited when his son joined the order.11
            
            In the autumn of 1817 
                        Van
                     Vleet charged that Union Village Shakers had punished a child by rolling her around in
                    a barrel for several hours. In 1818 he published this and other accusations in a pamphlet, An Account of the Conduct of the Shakers. The Shakers replied in 1819 with The Other Side of the Question, an account of "the proceedings of Abra[halm 
                            Van
                         Vleet, Esq., and his Associates, against the Said United Society at Union Village, 
                            Ohio
                        ," which was printed in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The "Esq." (Esquire) attribution recognized 
                        Van
                     Vleet's official status which, ironically, was that of a justice of the peace
                    for 
                        Warren County
                    's Turtle Valley Township. In 1823, the Shakers
                    established a printing office at their village, prepared to counter the Star word
                    for word. They also began reprinting Christ's Second Appearing, the
                    volume that the Star's job office printed in 1808. The Shakers' introduction of
                    printing paraphernalia, with its competitive potential, may have been among the factors that
                    recharged 
                        Van
                     Vleet's migratory nature. It was time to move on.12
            
            
               
                  11 Hooper, History of 
                                Ohio
                             Journalism, 1793–1933, 29; MacLean, "The Shaker
                        Community of 
                            Warren County
                        ," 
                     
                                Ohio
                             Archaeological and Historical Society Publications, X (1902), 261; Edward
                        Deming Andrews, The People Called Shakers (
                            New York
                        , 1953), 92; Stephen J. Stein, The Shaker Experience in America
                                (
                     New Haven, Conn.
                  , 1992), 85; In Indiana, Elihu Stout, on the
                        "almost unanimous solicitation of his readers," reluctantly granted Smith
                        admittance to the pages of his 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Western Sun. Smith's diatribe was printed in two installments,
                        filling more than eight columns. The Shakers "are learned, cunning, artful
                        men," he claimed; "& the leading shakers [sic] live
                        in luxury in wine and women as far as their plan of secrecy will admit of." However,
                        the Shaker village of Busro at Busseron Creek several miles north of 
                            Vincennes
                         had caused only minor controversy when it was founded in 1808, and in the years the
                        settlement was maintained, the Shakers sold various items of farm produce and home manufacture
                        to the residents of 
                            Vincennes
                         and the surrounding area. Busro was not permanently abandoned until March, 1827. 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Western Sun, October 6, 13, 1810; Mary Lou Conlin, "The Lost Land of
                        Busro," The Shaker Quarterly, III (Summer, 1963), 44–45,
                        55, 57; Oliver W. Robinson, "The Shakers in 
                            Knox County
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIV (March, 1938),
                        34–41; Robert M. Taylor, Jr., et al., Indiana: A New Historical
                        Guide (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1989), 291.
               
                  12 R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                            1815–1840 (2 vols., 1950; 
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1978), II, 477; Ralph Leslie Rusk, The Literature of the Middle
                            Western Frontier (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 19261, I, 226; ibid., II, 252; The History of 
                                Warren County
                            
                   (1885), 440, 448. Eventually several Shaker elders went into 
                            Lebanon
                         and settled all the Union Village accounts, advising the store owners there would
                        be no more business with them if their harassment continued. The people of 
                            Lebanon
                         "concluded to mend their manners." MacLean, "Mobbing the
                        Shakers," 131. Union Village was not abandoned until 1910.
            
            
            
               ARTIST R. BARNES'S RENDERING OF
                            CONNERSVILLE'S FIRST STRUCTURE, THE TRADING POST, AS IT MIGHT HAVE LOOKED
                            IN 1813
               Reproduced from The Book of the 150th Year of Connersuille, Indiana (
                            Connersville
                        , 1964).
            
            
            In 
                  Lebanon, Van
                Vleet may have become acquainted with John and Samuel Caldwell Sample who
                    arrived in 
                        Lebanon
                     with their families in the late autumn of 1819. Carpenters by trade, the Samples had
                    made the long haul from Elkton, 
                        Maryland
                    , and were intent on traveling farther. Their ultimate destination was 
                        Connersville
                    , Indiana, a cluster of log cabins alongside the bank of the Whitewater
                    River's west fork and the seat of government for 
                        Fayette County
                    . The settlement was advantageously situated at the eastern edge of the "New
                    Purchase," a vast stretch of almost 8.5 million timbered acres that merged on its western
                    extremity into tall, lush prairie grass. The federal government had acquired the fertile package in
                    1818 from the Miami, Wea, Potawatomie, and 
                        Delaware
                     Indians. The Samples, however, wintered in 
                        Lebanon
                    , perhaps because of the bad weather but more likely for economic reasons. A new federal
                    land act would go into effect April 24, 1820, permitting settlers to buy public domain land in
                    tracts as small as eighty acres at a minimum price of $1.25 an acre, payable on purchase.
                    Under the previous land act of 1804 the minimum purchase was 160 acres at $1.64 per acre,
                    although the land could be bought on credit. With the awakening of spring, 1820, then, the Samples
                    said good-bye to their 
                        Lebanon
                     acquaintances and set forth for Con_ nersville.13
            
            Despite a depressed economy brought on by the panic of 1819 (the nation's first great
                    depression), little 
                        Connersville
                     was enjoying a boom. Emigrants arrived almost every day, either to settle in or to
                    stock up for the trip farther west. On Saturdays, farmers and traders swarmed into the settlement
                    "to buy goods, trade in live stock or lands or ‘swap’ horses, hear
                    the news and settle up old scores by arbitration, and not infrequently by fisticuff
                    fights." According to one Indiana historian, about four thousand whites were living in the
                    whole of the New Purchase at the time of the acquisition, and of that number, around two hundred
                    resided in 
                        Connersville
                    . Within ten years after the Samples' arrival, there were nine thousand whites
                    in 
                        Fayette County
                    . John Sample established a hotel and for a time was county coroner as well as
                    Con-nersville's second postmaster. Samuel Sample abandoned carpentry for law and
                        politics.14
            
            
               
                  13
                        A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men of the State of Indiana,
                        I, 6th District, 74; 
                            Connersville
                         was founded by John Conner who settled in Indiana Territory around 1800 with his
                        brother, William. At some time between 1804 and 1808, he built a fur trading post at the site.
                        In 1813 Conner platted the town, which assumed his name. 
                            Fayette County
                        , named in honor of the Marquis de la 
                            Fayette
                        , was organized in January, 1819. History of 
                                Fayette County
                            
                   (1885), 135–36; Ronald L. Baker and Marvin Carmony, Indiana Place Names (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1975), 33, 52; Richard B. Morris, Encyclopedia of American
                            History (
                            New York
                        , 1953), 437.
               
                  14 "Reminiscences of Judge [Fabius M.] Finch," Indiana Magazine of History, VII (December, 1911), 155; Charles Roll, Indiana: One Hundred and Fifty Years of American Development& (5
                        vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1931), I, 385; An Illustrated Historical
               
            
            
            
               
                        Van
                     Vleet's motives for moving to 
                        Connersville
                     are unclear. 
                        Fayette County
                     was in need of a printer since the closest press was at the Enquirer
                    printing office in 
                        Brookville
                    , which was seventeen miles to the south. John Sample may have had something to do with 
                        Van
                     Vleet's decision to put his quarrels with the Shakers behind him and come to 
                        Connersville
                    ; Sample's son, also named John, had an interest in printing. Whatever his
                    reasons, 
                        Van
                     Vleet sold his share in the Western Star, loaded his press and type
                    in a wagon, and began his journey to 
                        Fayette County
                    .
            
               
                        Van
                     Fleet founded his new printing office near 
                        Connersville
                    's town square. Nearby was a dry goods store, Barnet and Jonas Levi's
                    jewelry shop, a cooperage, Austin Bishop's grocery, two hat makers, a saddler, law offices,
                    three blacksmiths, and the tailoring shop of David Beck. Taverns and hotels flourished. Among the
                    most popular was John Sample's inn, which was regarded as having the best cooks. Joshua
                    Harland's inn, however, was celebrated for serving the finest whisky. Travelers who wanted
                    their horses well cared for while they were in town were directed to the hotel run by Newton
                    Claypool. The town, whose main part was about five blocks long and two blocks wide, was burgeoning,
                    having spread to the east side of the Whitewater where several cabins, a tannery, and a carding and
                    fulling operation were located.15
            
            The first issue of 
                        Van
                     Vleet's Indiana Statesman, a four-page weekly, appeared on
                    an unknown date in 1823. John Swayze, a journeyman printer, might have assisted 
                        Van
                     Vleet. Only the twentyninth issue, that of January 10, 1824, has survived.16
            
            In the summer of 1823 
                        Van
                     Vleet issued a prospectus for The Western Ladies' Casket, a
                    monthly magazine that he claimed would be "Edited by a female": 
                  
                     Atlas of Fayette Co., Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1875), 6, gives 
                                Fayette County
                            's 1820 population as 5,950; U.S., Fifth Census, 1830, Population
                            Schedules for 
                                Fayette County
                            , Indiana; History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                
                      (1885), 96; An Illustrated Historical Atlas of Fayette
                                Co., Indiana, 8; Frederic Irving Barrows, ed., History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                , Indiana: Her People, Industries and Institutions (1917; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1973), 187, 521; Samuel Sample served 
                                Fayette County
                             as its state representative (1828–1829). In 1833, he relocated to 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana. He was a member of the 
                                United States
                             House of Representatives 1843–1845. A Biographical
                                Directory of the Indiana General Assembly (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19801, I, 343.
                  
                     15
                            History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                
                      (1885), 137–39; The Book of the 150th Year of
                                Connersuille, Indiana (
                                Connersville
                            , 1964), 117–18; Barrows, History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                
                     , 523.
                  
                     16 Indiana historian Logan Esarey listed the Indiana
                                Statesman in his penciled notes about early Indiana newspapers but did not suggest
                            a starting date. Compilation of Indiana Newspapers, Logan Esarey Papers (Lilly Library,
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ). He placed 
                                Van
                             Fleet in 
                                Connersville
                             as early as 1820, yet at that time 
                                Van
                             Vleet was in 
                                Ohio
                            , associated with the Western Star. Miller, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography, 103, and Barrows, History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                
                     , 521, give 1824 as the founding year of the Statesman. However, since twenty-eight issues preceded the extant copy, the Statesman was unquestionably started by 
                                Van
                             Vleet in 1823, soon after his arrival in 
                                Connersville
                            . In the Miller work the printer's surname is consistently spelled 
                                Van
                             Fleet.
               
                    
                    
                  THE BUCKLEY HOUSE (BUILT C. 1820), SHOWN HERE IN A 1906 PHOTOGRAPH, SERVED AS AN INN, GROCERY GENERAL STORE, AND POSSIBLY CONNERSVILLE'S FIRST POST OFFICE
                  
                  Reproduced from Pen and Camera of the Pretty and Progressiue City of
                                Connersuille, Indiana (
                                Connersville
                            , 1906).
               
                    
                        The entire tendency of this publication will be to desseminate [sic] useful
                            knowledge and to excite a taste for mental improvement, particularly among the female part
                            of the community & As this perhaps, is the first publication attempted to be
                            published by a female in the western country a hope is entertained that it will not be
                            deficient in merit or short in duration for want of a liberal support. $1.00 a
                                year.17
                  
                    
            
            If 
                        Van
                     Vleet maintained a regular publication schedule, the first issue of the Casket appeared in October, 1823. Only the fifth number, February, 1824, is known to have
                    survived. It bears the motto: 
                        Improve, excel, surmount, subdue your fate!
                        So shall at length, enlightened men efface
                        That slavish stigma seared on half the race.18
                  
                    
            
            This issue of sixteen pages contains a historical sketch about galvanism (the process of producing
                    electricity with chemicals) "extracted from the American edition of the Edinburgh
                    Encyciopae-dia [sic]"; an item on the principles of
                    dyeing cloth attributed to Compensations on Chemistry; and a short story,
                    "The Rose in January—A German Tale" credited to the 
                  
                            London
                         Magazine. If the contents of other issues of the Casket were
                    consistent with the extant 
                  
                     17 Corydon Indiana Gazette, September 10, 1823,
                            quoted in Charles Moores, "Old Corydon," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XIII (March, 1917), 34; Mary Alden Walker, The Beginning of
                                Printing in the State of Indiana (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Ind., 1934), 18.
                  
                     18 Source of poem not located.
               
                     issue, the reader was served brow-wrinkling reading matter,
                    hardly the stuff to offer a brief escape from the stresses of frontier life or to
                    "improve" her fate. States "Principles of Dyeing," "Tin
                    is used as a mordant in three states, dissolved in nitro muriatic acid, in acetous acid, and in a
                    mixture of sulphuric and muriatic acids. Nitro muriat of tin is the common mordant used by dyers.
                    They prepare it by dissolving tin in diluted nitric acid, to which a certain proportion of muriat of
                    soda, or of ammonia is added."
            The reader may have found some pleasure in "The Rose in January." Written in the
                    first person, the tale is told by a professor of philosophy intent on winning the hand of the fair
                    Mademoiselle Amelia de Belmont by presenting her with a bouquet of roses on New Year's Day.
                    After several failed attempts to cultivate a rose bush, he at last succeeds only to discover one
                    evening a sheep feasting on the plant's buds. Furious, he bludgeons the animal to death
                    with his cane. A moment later he learns from a servant that the sheep was Amelia's pet.
                    Filled with remorse, he tries to revive the animal with Eau de Vie. While doing
                    so, a valuable ring, which Amelia's dead father "had got as a present from the
                    Emperor," tumbles from a collar around the sheep's neck. Meantime, a frantic
                    Amelia searches the streets for the ring; it had slipped from her finger when she was collaring the
                    sheep. The ring is returned, but Amelia, on being told of her pet's brutal end, is
                    inconsolable. But all ends well. On New Year's Day the professor presents Amelia with a
                    newborn lamb garlanded with roses bought from a gardener. In gratitude, Amelia's mother
                    gives the professor permission to marry her daughter.19
            
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     lawyer Calvin Fletcher (1798–1866) received the December, 1823, issue of the
                        Casket, "which," he confided to his diary, "I read
                    and considered the contents very good."20 How long the Casket lasted is unknown.
            At some point in 1824 
                        Van
                     Vleet sold his printing office to John Swayze and unknown partners. In a satirical
                    article titled "Steam Boat News," John Scott (1793–1838), editor and
                    printer of the Cen-terville Western Emporium in neighboring 
                        Wayne County
                    , suggested that the cause of the Statesman's demise was the
                    journal's political character. 
                        Van
                     Vleet's printing press, he wrote, "performed well until the
                    commencement of the [18241 Presidential Election, at which time she unfortunately ran foul of an
                    ‘Old Hickory’ [presidential 
                  
                     19
                            The Western Ladies' Casket, February 1, 1824. The badly spotted
                            issue is in the periodical archives of the Library of Congress and is available on microfilm
                            (APSII, reel 252, University Microfilms, 
                        Ann
                                Arbor, Mich.
                     ).
                  
                     20 Gayle Thornbrough, ed., The Diary of Calvin
                            Fletcher, Vol. I, 1817–1838, Including Letters of Calvin
                                Fletcher and Diaries and Letters of His Wife Sarah Hill Fletcher (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1972), 94. The diary entry is dated January 25, 1824. Fletcher, a native of
                                    
                        Ludlow, Vermont
                     , and new bride, whom he married in 
                                Ohio
                            , settled in 
                                Indianapolis
                             in 1821. He was the community's first lawyer. He served as state
                            attorney for the Fifth Judicial District and spent seven years in the Indiana senate.
               
                     hopeful Andrew Jackson] and stove in her bow. She was
                    afterwards sold to one of the ‘Firemen’ [Swayze] &." 
                        Van
                     Vleet apparently now turned to weaving for his income.21
            
            On December 2, 1824, Swayze and Company launched 
                        Connersville
                    's second newspaper, the Village Press, also a four-page
                    weekly. In the maiden issue it was hinted that the Statesman had failed because of 
                        Van
                     Vleet's frequent lack of newsprint, which resulted in an erratic publishing
                    schedule. Swayze and Company assured subscribers that a sufficient supply of paper was on hand
                    "to continue the regular operation of the establishment for a considerable part of a
                    year." Perhaps so, but within two months the Village Press "was
                    compelled to stop for want of ‘steam."’ Swayze removed to 
                        Brownsville
                     in neighboring Union County to start, with lawyer Henry C. Hammond and printer Cason
                    Buckhalter, The Flying Roll and Union Advertiser. Founded in February, 1825, the
                    weekly did not last out the year.22
            
            Lawyer Daniel Rench (1799–1872) undoubtedly was the catalyst for reestablishing a
                    newspaper in 
                        Connersville
                    . It would be called the 
                  
                            Fayette
                         Observer. 
                        Van
                     Vleet gave up his weaving to join Rench, and it is likely that Swayze, back in town
                    after his ill-fated Union County venture, sold to the Observer the press and type
                    that he had acquired from 
                        Van
                     Vleet and was now content to work for the new enterprise as a journeyman printer. John
                    Sample, Jr., also may have been employed by the office. An apprentice was William Stewart
                    (1815–18651, only a few days past his eleventh birthday when the newspaper started. The
                    first Observer appeared June 17, 1826, with Rench as the editor. Initially, the
                    weekly was printed by 
                        Van
                     Vleet for Rench, but in September "for" was
                    replaced with "&" suggesting that the two had entered into a
                        partnership.23
            
            The Observer displayed a journalistic touch that may have eluded the Indiana Statesman and the Village Press. Letters that 
                  
                     21 John Scott was one of early Indiana's best-known printers
                            and editors. In 1829 he founded 
                                Cass County
                            's first newspaper, the 
                                Logansport
                            
                            Pottawatomie and Miami Times. For his biography, see Gayle
                            Thornbrough's introduction to the Indiana Historical Society's reprint of
                            Scott's Indiana Gazetteer (1826; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954), 7–20; 
                                Centerville
                            , Ind., Western Emporium, March 12, 1825; History
                                of 
                                    Fayette County
                                
                      (1885), 138.
                  
                     22
                            Village Press, December 2, 1824. 
                                Van
                             Vleet once apologized for failing to publish two successive issues of the Statesman because he was out of paper and "unfavorable weather
                            and bad roads" prevented getting a supply from 
                                Cincinnati
                            . Indiana Statesman, January 10, 1824; Western
                                Emporium, March 12, 1825. Only the first issue of the Village
                            Press has survived; Miller, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography, 446. The
                            first part of the Flying Roll's name was borrowed from the fifth
                            chapter of the Bible's Book of Zechariah; obviously Swayze intended the Roll to be fearless in exposing those whom he considered politically
                            capricious or perverse. 
                                Hammond
                             later moved to Liberty, Union County's seat, where he was probate
                            judge from 1829 to 1833. Buckhalter's surname appears also as Burckhalter and
                            Burkhalter in Union County histories and county records.
                  
                     23 A Marylander by birth, Daniel Rench arrived in Indiana with his
                            parents around 1812 and settled in 
                                Fayette County
                            's Jackson township. Rench served as the
               
                     lacked constructive substance were rejected, thus giving the
                    paper's four pages more columns for reprinting national and international intelligence from
                    exchange papers. As the canal fever heated up in Indiana, space was devoted to canal news including
                    one item that hopefully contended that a canal between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans
                    "seems at length in a fair way of being attempted." News about the progress of the
                    National Road, slowly inching its way toward Indiana, was not overlooked. The schedule of traveling
                    preachers frequently appeared; many sermonized in the courthouse. In one issue 
                        Van
                     Vleet and Rench listed the names of the Methodist circuit riders serving Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . Once, a half-page was devoted to data about the world's principal rivers. In
                    a later issue, there was a legal argument on capital punishment. Readers were implored to use the
                    town's library: "The county contains perhaps 3 or 4 thousand persons of the age of
                    16 years & upwards—Yet we have less than one hundred readers! & without
                    more reading, perhaps our state may lack a good many great men, when those we now have are used up."
               24 The Observer's
                    most worthy service, though, was its fight for better schools in 
                        Fayette County
                    : 
                        It is very painful to observe, that in this whole district of country, a school of very
                            respectable character is rarely, if ever, to be met with &. [One cause is] the want
                            of capable teachers; but the remote and prime cause is the carelessness and neglect of the
                            employers. The latter, being content with any one who calls himself teacher, inquire for, or
                            demand little else than a tolerable hand writing, some knowledge of figures and a low price, for teaching.25
                  
                    
            
            
               county's first auditor (1841–1852) and as the county recorder
                        (1865–1872). History of 
                                Fayette County
                            
                   (1885), 62, 93, 138. In the summer of 1827 Swayze was an unsuccessful
                        candidate for trustee of the 
                            Fayette County
                         seminary. In October, 1830, he was appointed a justice of the peace for 
                            Fayette County
                        . 
                     
                                Fayette
                             Observer, July 28, August 11, 1827; Barrows, History of 
                                Fayette County
                            
                  , 190. Swayze later worked as a printer-editor in 
                     New Castle, Muncie
                  , and possibly 
                            Hagerstown
                        , Indiana. 
                            Elwood
                         Pleas, 
                     
                                Henry County
                            : Past and Present (
                            New Castle
                        , Ind., 18711, 118; The County of Henry, Indiana (n.p., 1893), 14;
                        Miller, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography, 90; An Illustrated
                            Historical Atlas, 243, incorrectly states that the Observer was
                        co-founded by Rench and Sample; Stewart and his parents arrived in 
                            Connersville
                         from 
                            Pennsylvania
                         in 1821. He was associated with 
                            Fayette County
                         newspapers for a number of years but also was active in the lumber business and was
                        a contractor for both the Whitewater Canal and the 
                            Wabash
                         and Erie Canal. He served 
                            Fayette County
                         in the Indiana House of Representatives 1845–1847. History
                            of 
                                Fayette County
                            
                   (18851, 93; An Illustrated Historical Atlas, 10,
                        incorrectly places the founding year as "about 1821."
               
                  24
                        
                     
                                Fayette
                             Observer, November 18, 1826. The canal item, reprinted from the
                                
                     Charleston, S.C.
                  , Mercury, also expressed hope for a
                        canal across 
                            Florida
                        ; ibid., October 14, 1826. The preacher tabulation lists
                        twenty-nine circuit riders in Indiana, thirteen in 
                            Illinois
                        ; ibid., November 4, 1826; ibid., May 12, 1827.
                        The capital punishment item, signed "Juvenis," was probably by Rench. It was
                        more against than for capital punishment; ibid., February 17, 1827. The
                        library had 250 volumes, among them Charles Buck's Theological
                        Dictionary, Samuel Johnson's Rasselas, Seneca's Morals, Homer's Iliad, Oliver Goldsmith's
                        miscellaneous works, a work on cattle medicine, a biography of George Washington, and a
                        nine-volume edition of George Washington, and a nine-volume edition of Shakespeare. There was a
                        fifty-cent yearly fee to users age sixteen and up.
               
                  25
                        
                     
                                Fayette
                             Observer, February 17, 1827. Usually schools were for boys, and the
                        quality of their instruction was generally indifferent. It was not uncommon "for a
                    
            
            
            Meetings of townspeople to discuss the issue were held in the printing office's
                    "lower room." In November, 1828, Samuel Wilson Parker (1805–1859),
                    fresh from receiving a degree from 
                        Ohio
                    's Miami University, arrived in 
                        Connersville
                     to start a private school and to read law in the office of Oliver Hampton Smith. As a
                    cofounder of Miami's Union Literary Society and "an extemporaneous debater and
                    declaimer," the abilities of the "slim, flaxen-haired stripling" were
                    quickly recognized by Rench who certainly saw in Parker a person to assist him in his quest. He
                    appointed Parker an editor, and although such a post provided little or no monetary reward, the
                    position gave Parker a chance for "the advancement of great public interests." The
                    struggle for a better school was successful. The county commissioners approved the construction of a
                    two-story brick seminary, and in May, 1829, the structure nearly completed, Parker was named the
                    school's principal. Classes began two months later.26
            
            As its advertisements suggest, the Observer was well patronized by 
                        Connersville
                     business people, indicating not only general support for the weekly but the growth of
                    the town and county. By 1826 around five hundred persons lived in 
                        Connersville
                    , which had, "in abundance," cabinet makers, hatters, tailors,
                    shoemakers, bricklayers, plasterers, saddlers, and carpenters vying for customers. Such industry
                    might suggest that the times were economically healthy for 
                        Van
                     Vleet and Rench, but many advertisers probably were slow in settling their accounts.
                    Subscribers who could not come up with the two-dollar yearly subscription could meet their
                    obligation with produce, which 
                        Van
                     Vleet and Rench 
                  school-teacher to manifest his goodwill toward the big boys by freely offering them the
                            use of pipes and tobacco, and also the refreshment of an occasional draught from his whisky
                            jug." Venable, Beginnings of Literary Culture, 191. Despite the
                            good intentions of the framers of Indiana's 1816 constitution, calling for
                            "a general system of education & wherein tuition shall be gratis, and
                            equally open to all," Indiana did not have a common school system until after the
                            Civil War. For a concise history of pioneer education in Indiana and the struggle to
                            establish public schools see James H. Madison, The Zndiana Way (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1986), 108–15.
                  
                     26
                            
                        
                                    Fayette
                                 Observer, February 17, 1827; Samuel Wilson Parker served in both the
                            Indiana House and Senate (1839–1844) and in the 
                                United States
                             House of Representatives (1851–1855). He was president of the
                                Whitewater Valley Canal Company and the Junction Railroad Company.
                                A Biographical Directory, I, 306; Biographical and
                                Genealogical History of 
                           Wayne, Fayette
                        , Union and 
                                    Franklin
                                 Counties, Indiana (2 vols.; 
                                Chicago
                            , 18991, I, 239–40; Oliver Hampton Smith (1794–1859) was
                            born near 
                        Trenton, New Jersey
                     ; he came to Indiana in 1817. He was a
                            prominent lawyer, politician, and railroad executive. He served 
                                Fayette County
                             as state representative, 1822–1823 and in 1827 was elected to the 
                                United States
                             House of Representatives. He was a 
                                United States
                             senator 1837–1843. Smith eventually moved to 
                                Indianapolis
                             where he was president of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             and Bellefontaine Railway. A Biographical Directory, I, 364;
                                History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                
                      (1885), 93, 116–23; William E. Richmond, first editor of
                            the 
                        Providence, R.I.
                     , Journal, founded in 1820,
                            quoted in Frederic Hudson, Journalism in the 
                                    United States
                                 from 1690 to 1872 (
                                New York
                            , 1873), 317; History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                
                      (1885), 119.
               
                     then retailed. In August, 1827, the Observer's office was selling "bacon hams and pickled pork."
                    Town and county growth also required considerable paper work for which official forms were
                        needed.27
            
            With the beginning of the Obseruer's second year, Rench and 
                        Van
                     Vleet acknowledged the weekly's support by the townspeople: 
                        In what manner we have discharged our duty, we leave to the judgment of our constant and impartial readers & we have assiduously
                            endeavored to render our paper intelligent and useful &. As to politics, the
                            character of our Journal has been so strictly neutral, that our distant readers, with whom
                            we have no personal acquaintance, have been unable to decide to which party we belong
                            &, there are intelligent men, of both parties, who have read, and continue to read
                            the paper, with a degree of satisfaction highly pleasing to us & the columns of the
                            Observer shall, at all times, be open alike to the friends of Mr. [John Quincy] Adams, and
                            to those of Gen. [Andrew] Jackson.
                     For the most part, however, the paper "was quiet on political
                        questions."28
            
            In the early summer of 1827 the Observer began advertising the publication of
                    "a new little work," the Indiana Analogical Primer,
                    "Important to Parents & Instructors of Primary Schools." The advertisement
                    appeared for a number of weeks. If 
                        Van
                     Vleet indeed published a speller while at the Western Star, he likely
                    was the motivater behind the primer, which was lauded as containing "lessons in spelling
                    and reading, adapted (both in manner and matter) to the capacities of children—and is
                    ornamented with a variety of ENGRAVINGS." It probably was bound in paper and may have been
                    illustrated with printers' ornaments, such as those of animals, which were readily
                    obtainable in 1827 from the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Type Foundry.29 Whether the primer was successful is unknown, but
                    it seems likely that 
                        Van
                     Vleet was soon pressed for money for in June, 
                  
                     27 Scott, The Indiana Gazetteer, 45, 53; 
                        
                                    Fayette
                                 Observer, August 25, 1827. Besides pork, 
                                Van
                             Vleet and Rench accepted wheat, corn, oats, firewood, flax, linen, beeswax,
                            tallow, sugar, feathers, and whisky. 
                        
                                    Fayette
                                 Observer, July 29, 1826. Such payment for subscriptions was accepted
                            by almost all early American newspaper publishers. As retailers, pioneer printers dealt in
                            anything they could get their hands on. For example the proprietors of the 
                                Salem
                            , Indiana, Annotator offered "Levi Jacobs'
                            celebrated improved durable RAZOR STRAPS." 
                                Salem
                            
                            Annotator, July 12, 1828.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., June 23, 1827. Because there was no electoral college majority in
                            the 1824 national election, the decision as to who was to be president was left to the 
                                United States
                             House of Representatives. Adams was chosen over Jackson. During all of
                            Adams's presidency, Jackson supporters vented their spleen in newspapers willing to
                            propagate their anger. Jackson was easily elected president in 1828. History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                
                      (18851, 87.
                  
                     29
                            
                        
                                    Fayette
                                 Observer, June 23, 1827; The primer has been overlooked in
                            bibliographies of pioneer Indiana printing that otherwise list "presumed
                            publications drawn from newspaper advertisements. Since no copies are known to exist, one
                            might question whether the primer ever saw the light of day. The advertisement, however,
                            stat-ed that the primer was for sale at the printing office and in italic type declared: "Neighboring merchants, and others, who wish to encourage
                                ‘home industry,’ may rely on having any demand, by the dozen or
                                gross, supplied by the above office at any time." Given these assurances
                            there is little doubt 
                                Van
                             Vleet and Rench had copies of the primer in stock.
               
                     1828, he sold his moiety in the Observer to
                    John Sample, Jr. Apparently he remained in 
                        Connersville
                     for several years, perhaps supporting himself and his family by returning to weaving
                    although there is the possibility that he stayed on at the Observer as a
                        journeymnan.30 On May 8, 1830, Rench announced in the Observer that that issue "will forever remain the last." He disposed of his
                    interest to Samuel Parker, who had retired from teaching and would soon start on a productive legal
                    and political career. Two weeks later, Parker founded the Political Clarion, which
                    was unabashedly a political puffsheet, giving "a hearty and unwavering support to Henry
                    Clay for the Presidency." "As a warrior and a martial benefactor," wrote
                    Parker in the Clarion's salutatory, "we esteem Gen. Jackson as
                    second only to the Father of this country, but against many of the acts of our Government since he
                    came in civil power, we enter an unqualified protest."31
            
            There is no evidence that 
                        Van
                     Vleet was associated in any way with the Clarion. Around 1831 he left 
                        Fayette County
                    , heading east. On July 23, 1832, he died in 
                        New York City
                     at the age of fortynine, possibly a victim of cholera that was ravaging 
                        New York
                     at the time.32
            
            
               
                  30
                        History of 
                                Fayette County
                            
                   (1885), 90; The 1830 census of the 
                            United States
                         lists four children—two boys and two girls—in the 
                            Van
                         Meet household. No female above the age of twenty is tabulated. The printer married
                        twice in 
                            Connersville
                        : to Elizabeth Harrison in 1824, then to Jane Miers two years later. Whether death,
                        divorce, or desertion ended these marriages is unknown. U.S. Fifth Census, 1830, Population
                        Schedules for 
                            Fayette County
                        ; Dorothy L. Riker, Genealogical Sources (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1979), 8, 13.
               
                  31 Parker was admitted to legal practice in August, 1831, a profession in
                        which he became "the literary pride of the 
                            Connersville
                         bar. He was known for his eloquence throughout his own [district] and in adjoining
                        states. His style was the most distinctly literary of any public man of his time &. He
                        had something of the Hoosier flavor of [James Whitcomb] Riley, the easy grace of [Washington]
                        Irving, the broad humor of Mark Twain, but nothing of the pungent, biting sarcasm of George G.
                        Dunn." Leander J. Monks, Logan Esarey, and Ernest V. Shockley, Courts and
                            Lawyers of Indiana (3 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), I, 96. George Grundy Dunn (1812–1857), referred to in the
                        quotation, was an avid Whig and a loose-tongued lawyer, his first recorded tiff with authority
                        occurring when he was a junior at what is now Indiana University. During a class taught by
                        Andrew Wylie, the school's president, he made a cutting remark to Wylie who at once
                        threatened him with a caning. Dunn gathered up his books and walked out of the room, never to
                        return. In March, 1852, while speaking at the Indiana Whig convention, he spied Governor Joseph
                        Wright, a Democrat, in the audience. "I'm glad you are here,
                        Governor," he said. "Don't leave until I am done. I propose going
                        through you with a lighted candle that all may see what a mass of putrefaction and political
                        rottenness you are." William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                            Sketches of Early Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1883), 241–51, 245–46;Clay W. Stuckey, "Moses Fell
                        Dunn: A Biography," typescript, 1983, 2–3, 7–8 (Main Library,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        ). History of 
                                Fayette County
                            
                   (1885), 93; Political Clarion, May 22, 1830, quoted in
                            History of 
                                Fayette County
                            
                   (1885), 87.
               
                  32
                        History of 
                                Fayette County
                            
                   (1885), 90; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana Journal, September 1, 1832. There were more than one hundred deaths
                        from cholera in the city on the day 
                            Van
                         Vleet died, many victims dying within several hours after contracting the disease.
                        See Board of Health death tables, 
                            New York City
                        
                        Cholera Bulletin, July
            
            
            
               CALEB BLOOD SMITH
               
               Reproduced from The Book of the 150th Year of 
                                Connersville
                            , Indiana (
                            Connersville
                        , 1964).
            
            Parker's Clarion survived for two years, but soon after the May 26, 1832,
                    issue the office passed into the hands of Caleb Blood Smith (1808–18641, a lawyer, and
                    Matthew R. Hull (1809?-1875), who owned a saddle and harness business. On June 2, 1832, they
                    launched the Indiana Sentinel, which, like the Clarion,
                    supported Henry Clay. At some point in early 1834, the Sentinel was acquired by
                    new owners remembered only by their surnames, Gallagher and Crosby. Under them, the Sentinel quickly failed. Samuel Parker returned to the printing office and, on May 31,
                    1834, started still another weekly political sheet, the Watchman, which he edited
                    for two years. This newspaper ended around 1841 under the ownership of Edwin T. Gabriel.33 By that time the pioneer period of Indiana journalism, in 
                        Connersville
                     and elsewhere in the state, was over. Newspapering, in the manner it started and was
                    practiced in the days of Abraham Van Vleet, had moved far beyond 
                        Fayette County
                    , 
                  23 and 25, 1832. During the 1832 cholera pandemic, at least 2,251 fell to the disease in 
                                New York City
                            . The unnamed author of "
                                Fayette County
                             and 
                                Connersville
                            —The ‘
                                Garden City
                             of Indiana,"’ which appeared in The
                            Indianian, III (18991, 165–95, places Abraham Van Vleet in 
                                Connersville
                             in 1834, which certainly was unlikely. This 
                                Van
                             Vleet may have been one of Abraham's sons. History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                
                      (1885), 93; Miller, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography,
                            105. Miller notes that a D. Van Fleet was associated with the 
                                Connersville
                            
                            Watchman and apparently died in the autumn of 1834, the year the newspaper
                            was founded; however, the History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                
                      (1885), 93, gives the surname as 
                                Van
                             Vleet.
                  
                     33 Caleb Blood Smith served in the Indiana House of Representatives
                            1833–1837, 1840–1842; in the 
                                United States
                             House of Representatives 1843–1849, and was secretary of the
                            interior 1861–1862. In 1863 he became judge of the Indiana district of the 
                                United States
                             court. Matthew R. Hull served in the Indiana House of Representatives
                            1839–1840. A Biographical Directory, I, 197, 361–62;
                                History of 
                                    Fayette County
                                
                      (1885), 115–16, 283; Miller, Indiana Newspaper
                                Bibliography, 103–105.
               
                    
                    
                  SAMUEL W. PARKER
                  
                  Reproduced from The Book of the 150th Year of Connersuille, Indiana (
                                Connersville
                            , 1964).
                across the 
                        Wabash
                    , and on past 
                        St. Louis
                    , to follow the trail of pioneers bound for a newer West.
            In early 1837 the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Palladium printed an editorial asking for a state convention of newspaper
                    publishers. By that date Indiana had fifty-two newspapers in forty-two of her towns. When 
                        Van
                     Vleet set off for 
                        Fayette County
                     in 1823, there were only ten newspapers in the state representing nine communities. On
                    May 29, 1837, eighteen "gentlemen, connected with the Press of Indiana, assembled in
                    Convention in the Council Chamber of the City of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ." Among them was John Sample, Jr., now associated with the 
                        Connersville
                    
                    Watchman. Two more publishers arrived the next day. The main purpose of the
                    convention was "that the Printers of Indiana adopt a uniform bill of prices for job
                    printing and advertising." Such an agreement was reached but apparently was not adopted
                    statewide. On a philosophical key, Theodore J. Barnett, of the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Gazette, said, "If a newspaper is to be of any service—if it
                    is to effect any useful end, it is requisite in the first place that its character
                    should insure the confidence of the community &. Calm, dignified, and argumentative language
                    must supply the place of acrimonious, abusive assertions, and a careful regard to authority be
                    observed in giving publicity to any matter of moment."34
            
            Stabilization and modernization set in. Iron presses, known generally as the 
                        Washington
                    , replaced the ink-stained wood presses in 
                  
                     34
                            
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., Palladium, January 21, 1837; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Journal, June 3, 1837.
               
                    
                    
                  RAMAGE TWO-PULL PRESS
                  
                  Reproduced from Adam Ramage and His Presses (
                        Portland, Me.
                     , 1942).
                many small printing offices, and although they worked on the same principle, they were
                    more efficient. In 1847 a printing press powered by steam was installed by the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana State Journal. An eighth of a cord of wood fueling its pork-barrel-sized
                    boiler would run it for ten hours, and in a single hour the press could churn out more than two
                    thousand impressions. One printer could operate it. "This enterprise has been accomplished
                    at a great expense," the Journal crowed, "and we confidently
                    look to the Whigs of the State to increase our circulation in such a manner as will afford us ample
                        remuneration."35 In contrast, the press 
                        Van
                     meet brought to 
                        Connersville
                    , most likely a Ramage two-pull press, was capable, at the most, of around two hundred
                    impressions an hour and to attain that speed three persons worked at a frenzied pace, one inking the
                    type, one laying on and taking off paper, and a third pulling a bar that lowered a plate (the
                    platen) on the press which pressed the paper against the type. Printing offices also underwent
                    organizational changes with the printer relegated to the press room while editorial tasks were
                    delegated to paid reporters who in turn were supervised by paid editors. With the advent of the
                        
                  
                     35
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Journal, June 22, 1847. This was the first number of the Journal printed on the steam press.
               
                     telegraph and the Atlantic cable the latest national and
                    international news was fed directly into the editorial room. Advertising and subscriptions were
                    solicited by still other divisions of the newspaper plant. As for the free roaming printer, he
                    lingered on into the early part of the twentieth century, showing up at newspaper offices in hopes
                    of picking up piece work handsetting type for a week or so. Known as a "tramp
                    printer," he was soon doomed by automatic typesetting machines. Eventually newspaper
                    offices quit altogether printing handbills, official forms, and other ephemeral whatnot,
                    surrendering these tasks to printing offices specializing in such jobs. The era of Abraham Van meet
                    was forever ended.
         
         
         
            Parents and Foster Parents, Shapers of Progressive Era Child Saving Practices: A Case Study, 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    , Indiana, 1887–1916
            Joan E. Marshall*
            
            The Progressive Era, which spanned the years between the turn of the century and World War I, was a
                    transitional period during which the 
                        United States
                     adjusted to the changes brought about by industrialization and urbanization. One of
                    those changes was the growing number of the poor. Interest came to be centered on the care of
                    dependent children as a panacea for this visible poverty. Many progressives thought that moving
                    these children from the bad influences of their home environment to a more wholesome one would free
                    the 
                        United States
                     from poverty, crime, and vice in the future. It became almost a moral imperative to
                    separate dependent children from indigent parents who were unable, and therefore unfit, to support
                    them, thereby to rescue the child and save the nation. All over the country enthusiastic reformers
                    joined together and formed associations to do this rescue work.1
            
            The main motive of the child savers of the Progressive Era would appear to have been social control.
                    They sought to influence the behavior of children by inculcating the values and norms of the middle
                    class, thus bringing the children into the social system they 
                  
                     * Joan E. Marshall is a retired social service agency
                            director who has an M.S. from Purdue University, 
                                West Lafayette
                            , Indiana. The author would like to thank the 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Historical Association for access to TCCHA documents; the staff of the Alameda
                            McCullough Library, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., especially Nancy L. Weirich and Maxine Blickenstac and Professor Nancy
                            F. Gabin of Purdue University for her comments on earlier drafts. The research for this
                            article was partially supported by an Indiana Heritage Research Grant awarded to the 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Area Geneaological Association.
                  
                     1 For an overview of the Progressive Era in general see Arthur S. Link
                            and Richard L. McCormick, Progressivism (
                        Arlington Heights, Ill.
                     , 1983). For overviews of child saving in the Progressive Era
                            see Michael B. Katz, In the Shadow of the Poorhouse: A Social History of
                                Welfare in America (
                                New York
                            , 1986), 113–45; Susan Tiffin, In Whose Best Interest?
                                Child Welfare Reform in the Progressive Era (
                        West-port, Conn.
                     ,
                            1982); Walter I. Trattner, From Poor Law to Welfare State: A History of Social
                                Welfare in America (
                                New York
                            , 1974), 96–115.
               
                     felt was threatened. However, research into the practices of
                    the children's institutions during this time give a much more complex picture than that of
                    mere child saving. Children's institutions, sponsored by many religious and ethnic groups
                    in different sections of the country, vaned widely and employed diverse methods.2 Some institutions were founded not to rescue children but to help sick parents who were
                    unable to care for their children during epidemics of cholera or with diseases such as tuberculosis.
                    On closer examination, rather than concentrating on clearly-defined social controlling behaviors,
                    child savers often seemed to be in over their heads and, as Ronald D. Cohen says, "groping
                    for answers to problems they only dimly understood."3
            
            Nevertheless, many scholars dealing with specific children's institutions relate their
                    findings to the narrow debate over the reformers' motives. Was it social control or
                    benevolence? Did child savers act from self-interest to insure a social order that favored them, or
                    did they act altruistically? Some critics of welfare history have called for a more comprehensive
                    approach to child saving research—one that reaches beyond the institutional bias of the
                    social controlhenevolence debates to include interactive groups (especially clients) and their
                    influence on the policies and practices of the institution. Clarke A. Chambers's trenchant
                    analysis, for example, denigrates welfare historians for focusing on the provision and management of
                    social services and ignoring the role of the 
                  
                     2 Two authors who point out diversity among child saving methods are
                            Leroy Ashby, Saving the Waifs: Reformers and Dependent Children,
                                1890–1917 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1984); and Peter C. Holloran, 
                        
                                    Boston
                                's Wayward Children: Social Services for Homeless Children,
                                1830–1930 (
                        Rutherford,
                                    N.J.
                     , 1989). Some studies of
                            individual child savings efforts are Jeanne Abrams, "‘For a
                            Child's Sake’: 
                                Denver
                            's Sheltering Home for Jewish Children in the Progressive
                            Era," American Jewish History, LXXIX (1989–go),
                            181–202; Prisilla Ferguson Clement, "Families and Foster Care: 
                                Philadelphia
                             in the Late Nineteenth Century," Social Service
                            Reuiew, LIII (March, 19791, 406–20; Thomas W. Cowger, "Custodians
                            of Social Justice: The 
                                Indianapolis
                             Asylum for Friendless Colored Children, 1870–1922," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVIII (June, 19921, 93–110;
                            Susan Whitelaw Downs and Michael W. Sheriden, "The Orphan Asylum in the Nineteenth
                            Century," Social Service Reuiew, LVII (June, 1983),
                            272–90; Arthur E. Fink, "Changing Philosophies and Practices in 
                                North Carolina
                             Orphanages," The 
                                    North Carolina
                                 Historical Reuiew, XLVIII (October, 1971), 333–58; R. S.
                            Patterson and Patricia Rooke, "The Delicate Duty of Child Saving: Coldwater, 
                                Michigan
                            , 1871–1896," 
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 History, W (Fall, 1977), 195–219; Gary E. Polster,
                            "To Love Work and Dislike Being Idle: Origins and Aims of the 
                                Cleveland
                             Jewish Orphan Asylum, 1868–1878," American
                                Jewish Archiues, XXXIX (1987), 127–56; Miritn Zmora, "A
                            Rediscovery of the Asylum: The Hebrew Orphan Asylum Through the Lives of its First Fifty
                            Orphans," American Jewish History, LXXVII (1988)
                            452–75.
                  
                     3 Prisilla Ferguson Clement, "Orphanages in 
                                New Orleans
                            , 1817–1914," 
                        
                                    Louisiana
                                 History, XXVII (1986), 337–51; Ann N. Morris, "The
                            History of 
                                St. Louis
                             Protestant Orphan Asylum," 
                        
                                    Missouri
                                 Historical Society Bulletin, XXXVI (January, 1980), 80–91;
                            Marian J. Morton, "Homes for Poverty's Children: 
                                Cleveland
                             Orphanages, 1851–1933," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 History, XCVIII (19891, 2–22; Ronald D. Cohen,
                            "Child Saving and Progressivism, 1885–1915," in Joseph M. Hawes
                            and N. Ray Hiner, American Childhood: A Research Guide and Historical
                            Handbook (
                        Westport, Conn.
                     , 19851, 273–309.
               
                     dependent poor. Bruce Bellingham takes a similar stand by
                    pointing out a false assumption in the motive debate: that institutions' policies are
                    imposed from above on passive, malleable subjects. He suggests that the child saving social
                    controllist rhetoric was written over an "actual practice in which quite
                    unreconstructed family strategies were facilitated." He proposes that in fact child savers
                    did not often radically intervene in families.4 Both Chambers and Bellingham
                    note the lack of focus by historians on ways in which poor parents used children's
                    institutions for their own ends. Without a focus on parental behavior and resulting institutional
                    action, previous analyses of changes in the practices and policies of children's
                    institutions have been incomplete.
            To find out how child saving organizations truly functioned it is necessary to examine them in their
                    local context. This study of one child saving organization in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    , Indiana, goes beyond the narrow motive debate approach. Although it necessarily has an
                    institutional focus, the Board Minutes and Annual Reports of the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Children's Home Association (TCCHA) being the principal sources,5 this study includes three related groups: the parents of children placed in the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Children's Home; the foster parents the TCCHA recruited; and the state agency
                    that came to oversee the TCCHA, the Indiana Board of State Charities. What role, if any, did each of
                    these three entities have in shaping the practices and the policies of the TCCHA during the
                    thirty-year Progressive Era? And what was the relationship of the TCCHA's actual practices
                    to its stated policies?
            In 1890 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     was a burgeoning agricultural and commercial center. Situated in the northwest portion
                    of Indiana in the Upper Wabash Valley, the area prospered because of its
                    fertile loam soil and the development of its transportation possibilities: 
                  
                     4 For the social control argument in general see Francis F. Piven and
                            Richard A. Cloward, Regulating the Poor: The Functions of Public Welfare (
                                New York
                            , 1971); and William Muraskin, "The Social Control Theory in American
                            History: A Critique," Journal of American History, LX (June,
                            1973), 23–41. For the social control interpretation specific to children see
                            Anthony M. Platt, The Child Sauers: The Invention of Delinquency (
                                Chicago
                            , 1969); W. Andrew Achenbaum, "W(h)ither Social Welfare
                            History," Journal of Social History, XXIV (Fall, 1990),
                            135–41; Bruce Bellingham, "Institution and Family: An Alternative View
                            of Nineteenth Century Child Saving," Social Problems, XXXIII
                            (October/December, 19861, s33–s57; Clarke A. Chambers, "Toward a
                            Redefinition of Welfare History," The Journal of American
                            History, LXXIII (September, 19861, 407–33; Peter L. Tyor and Jamil S.
                            Zainaldin, "Asylum and Society: An Approach to Institutional Change," Journal of Social History, XIII (Fall, 1979), 23–43;
                            Bellingham, "Institution and Family," s51.
                  
                     5
                            
                        
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                 Children's Home Association Board Minutes, Vol.
                            1–5 (December 30, 1886–November 4, 1927); hereafter cited as CHAM; 
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                 Children's Home Association Annual Reports, Vol. 1
                            (1886–1905), Vol. 2 (1906–1929); 
                        
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                 Children's Home Inmate Register, Vol. 1 (January 20,
                            1887–September 14, 1894), Vol. 2 (July 24, 1906–September 14, 1937),
                            all located at the Alameda McCollough Library, 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Historical Association, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana.
               
                     the Wabash River; the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal; and four railroads. Although 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     had failed to attract a large amount of industry and had an extremely small population
                    of foreign-born residents (around 10 percent), it still had experienced a huge change from its rural
                    beginnings. It was home to 188 small industries, employing 2,746 wage earners. In one generation its
                    county seat, 
                        Lafayette
                    , had grown from a handful of rude cabins in a wilderness to a bustling railroad center
                    of over sixteen thousand people. During the next thirty years, between 1890 and 1920, 
                        Lafayette
                    's population grew by 38 percent to 20,218, making up half of the
                    county's population (40,063). The value of the county's manufactured products
                    increased from 4.7 million in 1890 to 13.1 million in 1920, partly because of the relocation of the
                    Monon Railroad shops to 
                        Lafayette
                    .6
            
            In December of 1886, just as the Progressive Era was dawning, a small group of concerned citizens of 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     formed the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Children's Home Association; and the very next month four children were moved
                    from the County Poor Farm into the new County Children's Home. During the thirty years of
                    this study, from 1887 to 1916, 840 children were admitted to the home for the first time. About half
                    as many, 464, were readmitted. The population of the home remained about the same from decade to
                    decade; the yearly average of first time admittees varied only from twenty-five to thirty. The home
                    housed an equal number of boys and girls. Almost 90 percent of the entrants were under twelve years
                    of age, with the majority of the children being between three and eight. Most of the children came
                    from one-parent families, but the percentage with two parents steadily increased from just 16
                    percent between 1887 and 1896 to about 32 percent between 1897 and 1906. The percentage grew to 43
                    percent between 1907 and 1916. (See Graph A.) About two-thirds of the children arrived at the home
                    with their siblings. Parental destitution and poor relief were the main reasons for commitment to
                    the children's home throughout the entire thirty-year period.7
            
            At about the same time that the TCCHA was being organized, another group of reform-minded citizens in 
                        Indianapolis
                     were lobbying 
                  
                     6
                            Abstract of Returns of Fifth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1832), 34; Bureau of the Census: Abstract of the Twelfth Census
                                of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1904), 155, 370; Abstract of the Fourteenth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1923), 29, 60; Ninth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                : Statistics of Population (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1872), 26; Eleventh Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1890: Vol. I, Population, 410; Report
                                on Manufacturing Industries in the 
                                    United States
                                 at the Eleventh Census, 1890, Part I, 1895; Carl Leonard Jorosz,
                            "The Industrialization of 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, 1850–1900: A Half Century of Frustration," (M.A.
                            thesis, hrdue University, 1975); George W. Stan-, "Industrial Development of
                            Indiana," (Indiana University Studies in Business, No. 14; 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1937.)
                  
                     7
                     CHAM, December 30, 1886, January 11, 1887; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Sunday Times, January 16, 1887; These numbers are based upon a compilation
                            from the monthly board minutes, as are all following numbers, percentages, and
                        graphs.
               
                    
                    
                  Three rented rooms in this building on 
                                Columbia
                             Street became the first location of the 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Children's Home, which opened on January 20, 1887.
                  Courtesy 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Historical Association.
               
                    
                  The 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Children's Home moved to this rented house on Twelfth Street (now
                            Greenbush Avenue) on April 1, 1887.
                  Courtesy 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Historical Association.
               
                    
                    
                  A. Inmates' Parental Status
               
                     for a central agency to oversee all public charities in
                    Indiana. After a first bill failed in 1886, the Board of State Charities was finally created by
                    legislative action in 1889.' This board was charged with the duty of investigating the
                    whole system of public charities. The board gave immediate attention to the problem of child
                    welfare, and its members visited children's institutions, collected information, and made
                    recommendations to the state legislature.
            The TCCHA and the Board of State Charities shared the opinion that the best way to care for dependent
                    children was to place them out in foster homes. The members of the TCCHA defined their child saving
                    mission as that of providing temporary institutional care until the children could be placed out in
                    "good homes"; they believed their work benefited more than just the child and that
                    for every child they rescued from "a life of misery and vice" the county was
                    "spared a pauper or a criminal." The Indiana Board of State Charities also
                    believed that "The Placing Out Plan" was the best method of caring for dependent
                    children and that being reared by "industrious foster parents" gave the
                    experiences necessary for "intelligent self respecting citizenship." Both of these
                    fledgling organizations at the state and local level saw institutions in an auxiliary role, serving
                    only as temporary way stations. Their optimistic faith in placing out foresaw no difficulties in
                    finding good substitute parents willing and able to take on the job of raising foster children.
                    Neither organization had any intention of helping or even dealing with parents of dependent
                        children.9
            
            Although these two bodies shared a similar child saving mission, they had inherent differences which
                    were epitomized by their founders. The formation of the TCCHA was sparked by Mrs. Tom Cory, the wife
                    of a local businessman, who was inspired by the sight of small children at the County Poor Farm; she
                    simply wanted to rescue children. To accomplish this she turned to the pastor of the Presbyterian
                    church. He with the local Baptist minister called a meeting of interested people—men and
                    women connected to the town's successful agrariadcommercial businesses and united by social
                    ties and a shared protestant background, who then formed the first board. The thirteen members of
                    the board, both men and 
                  
                     8 Genevieve C. Weeks, "Oscar C. McCulloch: Leader in
                            Organized Charity," Social Service Review, XXXIX (June, 1965),
                            209–21; "State of Indiana Laws Concerning Children," Zndiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections, XLIV (March, 1926),
                            9–10.
                  
                     9
                            
                        
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                 Children's Home Association's Annual Reports,
                            Articles of Association (Article I), 1; ibid., By Laws of Association
                            (Article 8, Section 21, 6; ibid., January 10, 1888, 16; First
                                Report of the Board of State Charities (March 1, 1889–October 31, 1890),
                            54; Fifth Report of the Board of State Charities (November 1,
                            1893–October 31, 18941, 72.
               
                    
                    
                  In 1890 the board of the children's home raised $100.00 for the home by
                            charging ten cents for each name embroidered on this album quilt.
                  Courtesy 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Historical Association.
               
                     women, were drawn from the same protestant, middle-class,
                    Republican pool throughout the years.10
            
            Oscar McCulloch, on the other hand, had a much larger goal in mind than just saving children when he
                    lobbied for a state board of charities. Although he was the pastor of a Congregational church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , his motivation was more secular than religious; he sought efficiency in charities
                    through planned state legislation and wanted to create "order out of chaos." This
                    goal Sollowed from his decade-long involvement in the charity organization society movement. He had
                    studied organized charity methods in 
                  Boston, New York
               , and 
                        Philadelphia
                     and then had founded and led the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Charity Organization Society. After the Board of State Charities was established,
                    McCulloch, as a member of the new board, handpicked the first secretary of that board, Alexander
                    Johnson, another experienced organized charity worker from 
                        Cincinnati
                    . These men were the equivalent of professional social workers, although social work had
                    not yet been established as an academic field. The secretary and his successors shaped policy and
                    dominated the state board. In contrast to the Board of State Charities, the TCCHA had no paid
                    professional administrator and was run entirely by its volunteer board.11
            
            The TCCHA's goal to save children by placing them out in substitute families ran into
                    difficulties almost immediately. Only about one-third (34 percent) of children leaving the home were
                    placed out with foster parents between 1887 and 1896, and this figure diminished in the succeeding
                    decades to 29 percent between 1897 and 1906 and to 17 percent between 1907 and 1916. (See Graph B.)
                    Why 
                  
                     10 A short, undated history written by Frances Boggs, secretary of the
                            TCCHA from 1887 through 1925 (Alameda McCollough Library) describes the thirteen-member
                            board. A small core were active leaders over many years. The first president, Colonel
                            Chester G. Thomson, was a Presbyterian, a Republican, and a businessman who owned a small
                            meatpacking business; he was replaced after twenty-one years by Albert Jamison, who was a
                            Baptist, a Republican, and a businessman (Jamison Brothers Hardware). Frances Boggs, a
                            Baptist and the wife of a successful farmer, John (who was also on the board), was the
                            secretary for over thirty years. The post of treasurer was held by Emma Moore, a Baptist and
                            the wife of a dealer in real estate and loans (Ralph D., also a board member) for
                            twenty-eight years. The annual fund drive was in the charge of Anna Curtis for eleven years;
                            she was an Episcopalian and the wife of a dealer in dry goods and notions.
                  
                     11 Frank Dekker Watson, The Charity Organization Movement
                                in the 
                                    United States
                                : A Study of American Philanthropy (
                                New York
                            , 19221, 203. For an in-depth picture of the Indiana reformer Oscar McCulloch
                            see Genevieve C. Weeks, Oscar Carlton McCulloch, 1843–1891: Preacher
                                and Practitioner of Applied Christianity (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1976); For an overview of the charity organization movement see Katz, Poor House, 58–84, and for the Indiana Charity Organization
                            Society see Watson, Charity Organization Movement, 202–204,
                            258–63; Although the state board consisted of six members appointed by the
                            governor (three of each political party, both men and women), they followed the lead of the
                            secretary. For more on the leadership of Oscar McCulloch and the first three secretaries,
                            Alexander Johnson, Ernest P. Bicknell, and Amos W. Butler, see John A. Brown, Historical Sketches of Public Welfare in Indiana and Indiana State Conference on Social
                                Work (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1963), 21–22; and Alexander Johnson, Adventures in
                                Social Welfare (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Ind., 1923), 81–169.
               
                    
                    
                  B. First Placement from Children's Home
               
                     were so few foster placements made when placing out was the
                    method of choice? The TCCHA could not achieve its goal alone. It needed the cooperation of both the
                    natural parents of the dependent children and the substitute parents who would provide the foster
                    home: natural parents were required to sign a release surrendering their child for placing out, and
                    substitute parents had to volunteer for fostering and then carry through by rearing the child. This
                    essential cooperation was not easy to achieve, as the TCCHA soon discovered.
            Although some natural parents were willing to release their children for placement in foster homes,
                    many parents did not want to sign away their children and took them back rather than give them up.
                    This problem was immediately evident and so severe that at the end of the first year of operation
                    the association petitioned for a state law to place children of unfit parents in "good
                    hands without interference." In addition to their emotional reasons for wanting to keep
                    their own children, families often needed the child's contribution to keep the family
                    afloat. In an 1887 case, for instance, parents coaxed their seven-year-old son away from the home to
                    "beg in the streets." In 1888 a mother took her twelve-year-old daughter back so
                    that she could work in the paper mill.12
            
            Despite the association's vigilance, determined parents managed to "steal"
                    their children. Even those who had been successfully placed out were not safe. For instance, one of
                    the home's first residents, Edna F., was lured from a foster home back to her
                    "miserable" one and was lamented as "a ruined girl, now." The
                    TCCHA attempted to make it plain that placed out children now "belonged to the
                    home" and held many discussions about ways to get back children who had been
                    "spirited away" by their parents. But the problem of interfering, non-cooperative
                    parents remained and vexed the association during the entire period from 1887 through 1916.13
            
            Clearly, some parents actively blocked the TCCHA's child saving plans. Others used the
                    children's home for personal reasons. A precedent was set in April of 1887 (the first year
                    of operation) when Robert C., a one-year-old, was taken into the home for a two-and-a-half week stay
                    at his parents' request. They paid $7.50 for his board. Another precedent was
                    established a few months later, when 
                  
                     12
                            
                        
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                 Children's Home Association Annual Reports, January 11, 1888,
                            10; 
                        
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                 Children's Home Inmate Register, 2; CHAM
                            Vol. 1, March 11, 1889.
                  
                     13
                            CHAM, Vol. 4, February 9, 1907; All names of parents and children in this
                            article are fictitious; ibid., Vol. 1, June 13, 1987; 
                        
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                 Children's Home Inmate Register, 1; CHAM,
                            Vol. 1, March 14, 1888; ibid., Vol. 2, February 10, 1896; ibid., Vol. 3, May 11, 1903, June 11, 1903; ibid., Vol. 4, June
                            10, 1910; ibid., Vol. 5, November 11, 1915; ibid., Vol.
                            1, June 13, 1887, March 14, 1888, May 11, 1889, January 8, 1891; ibid.,
                            Vol. 2, June 6, October 8, November 10, 1894, September 10, 1895; ibid.,
                            Vol. 3, May 11, June 11, 1903.
               
                    
                    
                  C. Parent Payments for Board
               
                     the Reception Committee accepted a sick mother with five
                    children, expecting her "to be a substantial help for the matron" as soon as she
                    was well. She did work as a domestic in the children's home in return for her
                    family's board.14
            
            Although directors of the TCCHA had not envisioned the organization as a provider of temporary care
                    at the request of parents, they gradually accepted this role as needy families asked for help. In
                    the first decade eighteen children were supported by mothers working in the home and forty-two more
                    were paid for by parents. This was just 17 percent of the total. The percentage of children whose
                    parents had placed them in the home temporarily increased to 34 percent between 1898 and 1906 and to
                    69 percent in the 1907 to 1916 time period. The steady increase in paid temporary placements brought
                    in larger and larger fees that were included in the treasurer's annual report. (See Graph
                    C.)
            The reasons for parents' requesting to board their children varied widely. One widower
                    placed his three children in accordance with his wife's death-bed wish. A mother who had
                    run away from an abusive husband needed child care to enable her to work as a live-in domestic. In
                    general, children with two parents were much less likely to be boarded than those with only one
                    parent. Only 30 percent of the children supported by paying or working parents were from two-parent
                    families. These children also stayed for shorter periods of time. The median length of stay for
                    children with two parents was just thirty-five days, it was forty-one days for those with just
                    mothers and fifty days for those with fathers only. Often, when one of two parents was
                    incapacitated, the couple's children were boarded just until that parent recovered. For
                    example, in 1915, a father placed five children in the home and paid $7 a week for their
                    care while their mother was hospitalized.15
            
            Rather than being boarded just for the duration of a temporary setback, children with one parent
                    frequently were placed for longer periods because of chronic need; their mothers or fathers, trapped
                    in low-paying labor and domestic jobs, were unable to work and care for children at the same time.
                    Many of them kept in touch with their children, however, both visiting them in the home and taking
                    them out for visits. For instance, when Mrs. S.'s employer, Dr. Coulter, went on vacation,
                    he allowed her to take her children into his house for the summer. A similar case involved a single
                    father who took back his son temporarily while he was laid off from his job at the Monon Shops.
                    Often a remarriage allowed for the reunification of the family. In 1913, for example, Mr. H.
                    reclaimed his children after he married a "good sensible" woman "with a
                    few acres 
                  
                     14
                     Ibid., Vol. 1, April 11, August 11, 1887.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., June 13, 1887; ibid., Vol. 5, September 11,
                            February 11, 1915.
               
                     near Stockwell." Sometimes luck made reunification
                    possible. In 1907 a mother who had boarded her children at the home for two years took them back
                    after she inherited some money from a relative and bought a farm.16
            
            The TCCHA ran its temporary boarding service as a business. Parents who needed to have their children
                    cared for at the home could apply to the Reception Committee. The committee judged the worthiness of
                    the situation and arranged for some sort of payment from the parents. The actual amount was adjusted
                    to the individual case. In 1894, for example, Mrs. O. paid half of her three-dollar-a-week salary as
                    a domestic for one of her children, while the township trustee paid for the other child out of poor
                    relief funds. Mothers frequently worked at the children's home to pay their
                    children's board, an arrangement which gave the matron some much-needed help. The TCCHA
                    terminated the agreement when the mother's work did not meet expectations; one mother was
                    sent back to the County Poor Farm with her child, because she made more work "than she
                    accomplished." Some mothers left when they found a better situation, which was the case for
                    one woman in 1894 who worked in the home just until she could find a place to sew.17
            
            The TCCHA was unsentimental about payment for services rendered and often had meetings to discuss
                    ways to extract outstanding amounts owed. In July of 1898 when little Charles B. died in the home,
                    the TCCHA was careful to charge his mother for the expenses of his medical care and funeral. After
                    the Board of Children's Guardians and the Juvenile Court were formed in Tippeca-noe County
                    in 1906 and 1907, the TCCHA referred defaulting parents to these bodies for legal action. Very few
                    parents were allowed to place their children gratis, and then only under special circumstances and
                    for a limited time. The February, 1916, board minutes noted such a case of "real
                    Charity" when they kept five siblings, aged two to eleven, while their widowed mother
                    recuperated from an operation.18
            
            Even though the TCCHA had accommodated its practices to fit natural parents' needs, it still
                    clung to and promoted the idea of child saving by placing out. If parents were unable to make their
                    payments, they were expected to release their children for placement in foster homes. For instance,
                    in 1913 a defaulting mother was given three choices: pay up, come get the child, or sign him 
                  
                     16
                     Ibid., Vol. 5, April 7, 1913, February 11, 1915,
                            April 17, 1913; ibid., Vol. 4, March 11, 1907.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., Vol. 2, May 11, June 6, 1894; ibid., Vol. 1,
                            March 14, 1888; ibid., Vol. 2, February 9, 1894.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., Vol. 2, April 10, 1894, July 12, September 7, 1897, January 8,
                            1898; ibid., Vol. 4, December 9, 1912; ibid., Vol. 2,
                            July 8, 1898; 
                        
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                 Board of children's Guardians Minutes, January 18, 1910
                            (Alameda McCullough Library); CHAM, Vol. 5, February 10, 1916, March 11,
                            1915.
               
                     away. At the time of this ultimatum the mother, a live-in
                    domestic, had paid $50.75 but still owed $45.50; she had fallen behind because
                    of sickness. As was explained in an annual report, "If there seems to be no hope that they
                    [the parents] will be able to take the children and support them, we often can then persuade them to
                    let us place the child in a good home and thus save the county from another pauper."19
            
            The TCCHA's annual reports reflect a changing attitude toward parents' worthiness.
                    At first the reports gave only negative accounts of the children's home environments,
                    describing the "filth and degradation" of "homes of vicious
                    poverty" where the children's "bright active minds were traced with
                    defacing lines seamed and scarred by premature conflict with sin and life's
                    bitterness—the laws of heredity in the balance against them." These reports also
                    deplored the children's return to their parents, expecting them to be "dragged
                    down to their [the parents'] wretched habits." Such child-saving rhetoric gave the
                    impression that all the parents with whom the association dealt were unfit to raise their own
                        children.20
            
            In the years between 1897 and 1906 the portrayal of parents in the annual reports softened. While
                    some still contained derogatory elements (one even expressed the wish that the children were all
                    orphans so that the association did not have to fear their return to the low level of their
                    parents), others presented parents in a more positive light, conceding that just being poor did
                    "not always destroy the parental love." After 1906, negative descriptions of
                    parental homes were almost entirely absent in the annual reports. The larger environment,
                    "the temptations and pitfalls of the world," were now identified as evil.21
            
            Descriptions of the TCCHA's growing service of parental boardings began to appear in the
                    annual reports of the second decade. In 1898, for example, the report told of parents "who
                    paid a little something" toward their children's board until they could
                    "again take them and care for them."22 These descriptions of
                    the boarding service, however, did not reveal the fact that it was becoming the home's
                    primary service.
            The TCCHA's added service of temporary boarding was in conflict with the policy of the Board
                    of State Chanties on ways to help dependent children. Although the state board realized that
                    temporary board was provided by many of the county orphan homes, including the one in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    , they deplored it. Writings 
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., Vol. 4, January 7, 1913; ibid., Vol. 3, June 11,
                            1903; ibid., Vol. 4, September 9, 1913; 
                        
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                 Children's Home Association Annual Reports, January 12, 1898,
                            69.
                  
                     20
                            
                        
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                 Children's Home Association Annual Reports, January 12, 1892,
                            41, January 10, 1893, 49, January 9, 1894, 52.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., January 12, 1898, 68, January 29, 1914.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., January 12, 1898, 69.
               
                     in its annual reports lobbied against this
                    "objectionable feature" that allowed parents who were "well able to
                    support their children" to shift their reponsibility to others. They saw the large numbers
                    of children who were returned to parents from orphan homes as proof that the parents were receiving
                    unwarranted aid,23
            
            The efforts of the Board of State Charities resulted in the enactment of state laws that made it
                    impossible to support children in orphan homes with public funds unless they were released by their
                    parents and made wards. The new laws brought a more constrictive legal procedure to effect wardship.
                    But legal changes did not eliminate the practice of accepting temporary placements at orphan homes.
                    The placements were still made and were paid for in other ways, such as private donations or
                    parental payments. However, even if parents themselves were required to pay to "the point
                    of self denial," the state board still opposed temporary arrangements, calling them
                    "of doubtful value" because they made it too easy for parents to shirk their
                        responsibilities.24
            
            The state board's negative attitude toward parents and parent boarding, unaffected by actual
                    interactions with parents, remained essentially unchanged. To the Board of State Charities poor
                    parents remained suspect. They were seen as leading their children "into
                    pauperdom" by teaching them that it was "unnecessary & to engage in honest
                    employment or to master a trade or education or occupation requiring time or effort." The
                    state board felt that parents of dependent children could and should obtain help only from existing
                    county poor relief; even then, the board averred, the children were "supported in idleness
                    or dissapation."25
            
            Natural parents were not the only obstructions to the TCCHA's goal of saving children by
                    placing them out in substitute families. Child saving required substitute parents willing to commit
                    to the rearing of a foster child. The TCCHA had trouble finding and keeping such foster parents.
            Becoming a foster parent in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     was not difficult. The TCCHA gave lip service to concern over the quality of the foster
                    homes, saying, "All possible care is taken to ascertain that the home offered is a
                    desirable one." Applicants, however, were only 
                  
                     23
                            Fourth Report of the Board of state Charities (November 1,
                            1892–October 31, 1893), 76–77; Seventh Report of the
                                Board of State Charities (November 1, 1895–October 31, 18961, 26; Twelfth Annual Report of the Board of State Charities (November 1,
                            1900–October 31, 1901), 96–98; Thirteenth Annual Report
                                of the Board of state Charities (November 1, 1901–October 31, 1902),
                            130–31; Seventeenth Annual Report of the Board of State
                            Charities (November 1, 1905–October 31, 19061, 22–23; ibid. (November 1, 1905–October 31, 1906), 22–23.
                  
                     24
                            Eighteenth Annual Report of the Board of State Charities (November 1,
                            1906–September 30, 1907), 119; Nineteenth Annual Report of the Board
                                of State Charities (October 1, 1907–September 30, 1908),
                            16–17; Twelfth Annual Report of the Board of State Charities
                            (November 1, 1900–October 31, 1901), 97–98.
                  
                     25
                            Seventh Report of the Board of State Charities (November 1,
                            1895–October 31, 1896). 27.
               
                    
                    
                  An advertisement for foster parents placed by the 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Children's Home in the 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Home Journal of April 13, 1896.
                asked to submit one or two references. Sometimes even this minimal check was ignored. The
                    board minutes of September, 1894, describe an unknown man who appeared at the door during a board
                    meeting "wanting to take a child on trial." The stranger was given Mary C. on the
                    spot after only a hasty consultation, "although he was a Catholic." Not only was
                    it easy to become a foster parent, but, if the children did not please, it was also easy to dump
                    them. The TCCHA gave assurances that children who did not prove satisfactory "would be
                    taken back without hesitancy"; any child could be taken "on trial" and
                    returned at any time with no questions asked.26
            
            The excessive length of time between placement in the children's home and placing out in a
                    foster family indicates the TCCHA's difficulty in finding enough foster homes. Children
                    were to be placed out "as soon as practicable,"27 and about
                    half of the residents were out within ninety days; but very few of those went to foster homes. The
                    majority of those placed within three months of arrival were returned to their own families; from
                    1887 to 1906 only about 26 percent went to foster families. This small percentage was reduced to 12
                    percent in the years between 1907 and 1916. (See Graph D.) On average, children waiting to be placed
                    in a foster home stayed at the children's home twice as long (402 days) as those who
                    returned to their own families (192 days). (See Graph E.)
            
               
                  26
                        
                     
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Children's Home Association Annual Reports, January 10, 1888, 16;
                            CHAM, Vol. 2, September 11, 1894.
               
                  27
                        
                     
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Children's Home Association Annual Reports, January 10, 1888,
                    16.
            
            
            
               D. Length of Stay & Placement
            
            
            
               E. Length of Time Before Placement in Foster Home or Own Home
            
            Another indication of the lack of available foster homes was the concern of the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     commissioners over costs at the children's home. A child at the
                    children's home cost the taxpayers a twenty-five-cent per diem, while a child in a foster
                    home cost taxpayers nothing. In 1894 and 1896 the commissioners called on the TCCHA to explain why
                    children remained in the children's home so long instead of being rapidly placed out in
                    foster homes. To recruit more homes the TCCHA in 1896 advertised in the newspapers for country homes
                    for children, just as they had asked for places for boys on farms in 1889.28
            
            Additionally, the TCCHA board members welcomed outside help in recruiting families. From 1894 to 1896
                    they used the service of the Children's Home Society, a private statewide placing agency.
                    In 1896 a city missionary, Mrs. 
                        Brown
                    , arranged many placements and even took children to the annual meeting of Quakers held
                    at the Farmer's Institute to introduce them to possible foster parents. Beginning in 1897,
                    state legislation gave the TCCHA a partner in the job of finding "good homes": a
                    state agent who was to assist in the placement of children and their subsequent supervision. By 1916
                    there were eight state employees doing this work; nonetheless, the help of the state did not
                    eliminate the problems with supply. As was previously noted, the percentage of foster placements in
                        
                  
                     28
                            CHAM, Vol. 2, June 9, July 12, 1894, April 13, 1896; Ibid., Vol. 1, July 8, 1889; ibid., Vol. 2, April 13, 1896.
               
                    
                    
                  The Watson property on the corner of Heath and Tenth streets served as the
                            children's home from 1890–1930. This photograph shows the home as it
                            appeared between two additions, one built in 1897 and the other in 1907.
                  Courtesy 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Historical Association
                the first ninety days decreased between 1907 and 1916, even though the state work force
                    increased from three to eight.29
            
            Forty-three percent of the children placed in foster homes for the first time were returned to the
                    children's home. Many of those returned were placed out repeatedly. The usual explanation
                    for failed foster placements was that the child did not give satisfaction. The
                    TCCHA board minutes use this stark phrase over and over again. More detailed explanations often
                    pointed to unsatisfactory work performance. In 1888, for instance, Lucy G. was returned as not old
                    enough to do the work wanted and in 1898 Jim M. as too small to do farm work. The sad fact was that
                    many foster parents were motivated by a desire to gain cheap labor rather than a benevolent wish to
                    rear middle-class children. Foster parents returned younger children for different reasons: Alice C.
                    was untruthful; Dora V. was a thief; Dottie did not talk plain; and baby C. was cross and unwell.
                    Even adoptions were not forever. Opal S.'s new family, for instance, returned her because
                    of her adoptive mother's poor health.30
            
            
               
                  29
                        Ibid., April 10, 1894; 
                     
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Children's Home Association Annual Reports, January 14, 1896, 61,
                        January 12, 1897, 65; ibid., Vol. 2, May 11, 1896; Eighth Report
                            of the Board of State Charities (November 1, 1896–October 31, 1897),
                        21–22, 55–59; Twenty-seventh Annual Report of the Board of
                            State Charities (October 1, 1915–September 30, 1916), 18.
               
                  30
                        CHAM, Vol. 1, October 13, 1887, September 12, 1888; ibid.,
                        Vol. 2, June 11, 1898; residents who were old enough to work were placed in foster homes much
                        faster than younger children. Length of stay was closely related to age. See Graph E; CHAM, Vol. 1, March 11, January 18, July 8, 1889; ibid.,
                        Vol. 2, May 11, 1896, April 8, 1889.
            
            
            Although the board minutes include descriptions of children's unsatisfactory performances in
                    foster homes, they refer only occasionally, and then obliquely, to problems with the foster parents
                    themselves. In 1890, for example, the matron discovered that Edith P.'s foster home
                    "was not the place for a child." The minutes refer to a particularly poignant case
                    which took place in 1906 when Betty H.'s father and brother came to the board complaining
                    that Betty was dying from harsh treatment in her foster home of four years. Betty was returned to
                    her family and was at first reported to be improving slowly. Five months later the association
                    approved an expenditure of $1.50 for a spray of flowers for her funeraL31
            
            Despite the fact that the TCCHA was aware that some parents mistreated their foster children, it did
                    not act to remedy the problem. After just three months of operation the board decided that
                    "in future they must be very particular in regard to homes to which children were
                    taken," but the TCCHA took no steps to do so. The board frequently expressed concern
                    regarding selection and supervision, but although the matron was sent to investigate on occasion,
                    these concerns were never translated into the adoption of regular corrective procedures. The
                    volunteer board had many responsibilities, including raising funds, operating the home, and dealing
                    with natural parents and foster parents, and it neglected foster parent selection and supervision.
                    It was not until 1912 that one board member was assigned to look after foster homes and make routine
                    visits. Even then, mistakes were made. A newspaper article of August, 1913, reported that
                    twelve-year-old Thomas L. was picked up by the police on his way back to the children's
                    home from a foster family in Brookston. He ran away because of the severe beatings he had received
                    for not doing the required work. He showed the officers a bad cut and several scars on his arms made
                    by his foster father with an iron rod, as well as a badly bruised ear from a blow by his foster
                    mother. The board minutes simply said "after investigating the home it was found not
                    suitable for the boy."32
            
            The TCCHA's reticence in detailing problems with foster homes was even more evident in the
                    annual reports than in the board minutes; the yearly public statements only mentioned the difficulty
                    in finding foster homes in a few off-hand requests for help. Addressing the problem of potential
                    foster parents' ulterior motives, the 1906 annual report appealed for families who did not
                    want "to save a servant's wage, but were sincere and earnest in wishing to help a
                    child." The board ignored the failure of foster placements by reporting the number of
                    returned children without explanation. Gradually 
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., April 10, 1890, May 11, June 11, October 10, 1906.
                  
                     32
                     Ibid., Vol. 1, April 11, 1887, February 8, 1892;
                                ibid., Vol. 2, April 10, 1893, July 12, 1894; ibid.,
                            Vol. 4, February 10, 1913; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, July 18, 1913; CHAM, Vol. 4, August 12,
                            1913.
               
                     qualifying phrases were added to the usual wording of
                    "good permanent homes," such as "we trust," or "which
                    seem to be permanent," or "that doubtless will be permanent." In the 1908
                    report the two reasons for the large return to the children's home from foster homes were
                    tersely presented: "some of the homes not being satisfactory, we request their return, in
                    other cases the children did not suit those who had taken them away."33
            
            The tone of the annual reports toward those foster parents who returned children grew a little more
                    critical over time. In 1912 the board commiserated with impatient foster parents: "Can we
                    wonder when even some parents grow impatient with their own children." But by 1917 the
                    board's response sharpened to reproach of foster parents for being unable to
                    "withstand the imperfections of the child's nature" and to condemnation
                    for foster families who thought of a child as a "play thing." The TCCHA also began
                    to take responsibility for some of the failures in placing out children; the annual report of 1909
                    explained: "Many mistakes were made in choosing the home for the child and they must be
                    rectified." These mistakes, though, were described as "errors of the head and not
                    of the heart." Although members of the TCCHA did eventually acknowledge the scarcity of
                    foster parents and failures of foster homes in their annual reports, they did not make public the
                    severity of the problem.34
            
            The Board of State Charities was well aware that county orphan homes were not successful in
                    implementing the child saving method of choice, placing out in foster families; but the state board
                    did not cite inadequate supply of possible substitute parents as contributing to this failure. In
                    fact, it stated that Indiana, with its "plentiful" food and population
                    "not yet too thick," had a "wealth in her family homes open to
                    children." That many of the possible foster parents who comprised this so-called
                    "wealth" were motivated by self-interest and did not desire children "for
                    their own sakes" was admitted. Those who were only looking for "cheap
                    servants" were acceptable for a child whose "only hope in life is to be a
                    menial." Teaching a child "to work and respect honest labor" was the most
                    important job of good foster parents, but care had to be taken that the child be matched to the home
                    and not be overworked.35
            
            
               
                  33
                        
                     
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Children's Home Association Annual Reports, January 17, 1899, 74,
                        January 29, 1914, January 28, 1907, January 17, 1901, 81, January 25, 1912, January 31, 1911,
                        January 25, 1909.
               
                  34
                        Ibid., January 25, 1912, January 30, 1917, January 25, 1910, January 30, 1913.
               
                  35
                        First Report of the Board of State Charities (March 1, 1889–October
                        31, 18901, 55; Twenty-first Annual Report of the Board of State Charities
                        (October 1, 1910–September 30, 1911), 165; Eighth Report of the Board of
                            State Charities (November 1, 1896–October 31, 1897), 36.
            
            
            The state board realized that better selection of foster homes and "proper and
                    sufficient" supervision would improve fostering, and it successfully lobbied for the
                    aforementioned state agent to do this work. It was the intention of the resulting 1897 state
                    legislation that all children in foster families be visited at least once a year by the state agent
                    to "reconcile adverse conditions and prevent trouble" and to encourage both the
                    child and the foster parent. Because the single state agent was unable to visit all the wards in the
                    state, the Board of State Charitieg lobbied for more workers and got them one at a time. Finally, in
                    1913, with an increased work force (seven field workers and one state agent) the objective of annual
                    visits to all children was met. But increased supervision did not stop the failure of many foster
                        placements.36
            
            The state board found two other culprits for the continuing failures: the natural parents and the
                    county orphan homes. The board's 1892 report claimed that "a constant difficulty
                    in finding the best homes, which is encountered in nearly every county, is in the disinclination of
                    people to take into their families little children from their own neighborhood, owing to the danger
                    of interference and annoyance from the relatives of the children, often disreputable or
                        dissolute."37
            
            Every annual report from 1907 through 1916 contained an attack on the small county orphan homes for
                    failing to train the children to fit into a normal family. The state board cited frequent criticisms
                    of foster parents that children from institutions had to be taught "the simplest tasks of
                    farm and household duties." In addition to teaching such everyday skills as respect for
                    elders and table manners, the county homes were supposed to provide industrial training for older
                    boys and girls and correct physical defects including bad teeth and enlarged tonsils. If a child out
                    on trial was returned, the orphan home was expected to analyze the failure and "give the
                    child what it needs to modify the deficiency."38
            
            
               
                  36
                        Seventeenth Annual Report of the Board of State Charities (November 1,
                        1905–October 31, 1906), 131; Nineteenth Annual Report of the Board of
                            State Charities (October 1, 1907–September 30, 1908), 200; Thirteenth Annual Report of the Board of state Charities (November 1,
                        1901–October 31, 1902), 34; Fifteenth Annual Report of the Board of
                            State Charities (November 1, 1903–October 31, 19041, 15, 88; Sixteenth Annual Report of the Board of State Charities (November 1,
                        1904––October 31, 1905), 105; Twenty-third Annual Report of
                            the Board of State Charities (October 1, 1911–September 30, 19121, 141,
               
                  37
                        Third Report of the Board of state Charities (November 1,
                        1892–October 31, 1893), 61, 79.
               
                  38
                        Twenty-fourth Annual Report of the Board of State Charities (October 1,
                        1912–September 30, 1913), 199–200; Twenty-first Annual Report
                            of the Board of State Charities (October 1, 1909–September 30, 19101, 38;
                            Twenty-third Annual Report of the Board of State Charities (October 1,
                        1911–September 30, 19121, 142; Twenty-fifth Annual Report of the Board
                            of state Charities (October 1, 1913–September 30, 1914), 16; ibid., 143; Nineteenth Annual Report of the Board of State Charities
                        (October 1, 1907–September 30, 19081, 199; Twenty-fourth Annual Report
                            of the Board of State Charities (October 1, 1912–September 30, 19131,
                        154–55; Nineteenth Annual Report of the Board of state Charities
                        (October 1, 1907–September 30, 1908), 200.
            
            
            The state board's solution for neutralizing the effects of disruptive parents and improving
                    the training of potential foster children was to replace the several county children's
                    homes with one central state institution. This state institution would train the children properly
                    before placing them out and would place the children as far from their natural parents as
                    possible—"beyond the bounds of evil reputation of antecedents." In 1912
                    Indiana's General Assembly finally authorized the establishment of this state institution
                    but never appropriated any money for it, so the idea never reached fruition.39
            
            What impact did the Board of State Charities have on the local practices and policies of the TCCHA?
                    Through 1896 the two bodies had a cordial and complimentary relationship. The members of the board
                    of TCCHA attended conferences on charity sponsored by the state board, and the state board made
                    annual inspections of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Children's Home. A number of these visits produced positive reports, such as
                    the one on September 29, 1891, where the home was found to be "well furnished and
                    equipped," with "sufficient help & to keep the house and children in good
                    order"; the children were found to be "well fed and clothed; and the management
                    was said to be "excellent."40
            
            Relations between the two organizations changed, however, after legislation in 1897 (lobbied for by
                    the Board of State Charities) created a state agency for dependent children under the state board.
                    The Board of State Charities became more than just an advisor. With the state agency now responsible
                    for all work with dependent children maintained at public expense, county orphan homes such as the
                    TCCHA were obliged to report to the state. Although the TCCHA was glad to have the state
                    agent's help in finding foster homes and happily reported the change in the annual report
                    of 1897––"of the 13 children placed in good and permanent homes, part
                    of these have been through the agency of our new state agent, W. B.
                    Streeter"—the board minutes also record some transitional friction. In October
                    of 1897 the secretary tells of some "mistakes" the state agent had made in regard
                    to homes and in March of 1898 the TCCHA was upset by the unwarranted "censure" by
                    the state agent of a child returned from a state-found home. However, the very next month the matron
                    told of "a fine home" the state agent had found. On the whole, the TCCHA and the
                    state agent worked together harmoniously on foster placements.41
            
            
               
                  39
                        Fourth Report of the Board of State Charities (November 1,
                        1892–October 31, 1893), 79; Turenty-seuenth Annual Report of the Board
                            of State Charities (October 1, 1916–September 30, 1917), 26–27.
               
                  40
                        Second Report of the Board of State Charities (November 1,
                        1890–October 31, 1891), 106.
               
                  41 "State of Indiana Laws Concerning Children," (The Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections, No. 144; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1926), 21; 
                     
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Children's Home Association Annual Reports, January 12, 1898, 69;
                            CHAM, Vol. 2, October 11, 1897, March 11, April 9, 1898.
            
            
            Behind the scenes, however, the Board of State Charities was working for an exchange of power. Seeing
                    that Indiana was supporting more dependent children at a much higher cost than 
                  Michigan, Minnesota
               , or 
                        Wisconsin
                     (states with a central state institution rather than county orphan homes), the state
                    board lobbied for more state control over dependent children. They wanted "more
                    centralization with regard to the care of dependent children, a more definite placing of
                    responsibility, and more active efforts in placing children in family homes [which] would, without
                    doubt, lead to a reduction in the number of children supported, a lessening of the public expense
                    and better work for the children."42
            
            Most of the suggested changes were gradually enacted by the state legislature, and each one
                    diminished the powers of the TCCHA (and all other county orphan homes). In 1901 the Board of
                    Children's Guardians law authorized statewide court-appointed county boards for the
                    protection of children who had been "abandoned, neglected or cruelly treated by parents or
                    guardians." It also empowered county officials to commit children to orphan homes,
                    indenture children, or have them adopted "without the consent of their parents"
                    but with the consent of the court. This act gave another body the power to place children in the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Children's Home. And in 1907 the juvenile court law took away the
                    TCCHA's authority to make children wards and place them on public support. The court became
                    the sole authority for this action. In 1909 annual written licenses to be approved by the Board of
                    State Charities were required for all children's institutions.43
            
            In 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    , when the Board of Children's Guardians and Juvenile Court started working
                    together in 1907, there was an immediate effect on the TCCHA's practice. As a result of
                    successful cases against "unfit" parents in the juvenile court, the Board of
                    Children's Guardians placed many children removed from their "bad"
                    environments in the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Children's Home. This sudden influx of new residents pushed the population
                    over capacity and beyond the abilities of the matron to care for them. Consequently, when the Board
                    of Children's Guardians transferred some children to White's Manual Labor Training
                    Institute, a large children's institution operated by the Indiana Yearly Meeting of the
                    Quakers in 
                        Wabash
                    , they were refused admittance because of lice infestations. The Board of
                    Children's Guardians, embarrassed by this event, condemned the children's home for
                    its "crowded and unsanitary conditions" as well as for "the lack of
                    training and the slow improvement of table manners and habits of thrift and cleanliness."
                        
                  
                     42
                            Seventeenth Annual Report of the Board of State Charities (November 1,
                            1905–October 31, 19061, 127.
                  
                     43
                            Burns' Annotated Indiana Statutes, Vol. 11. Article 10. Sections
                            3187–3188 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19011, 123–24; "State of Indiana Laws Concerning
                            Children," 11, 23, 27–28.
               
                     "For the betterment of the children," the
                    board acted to have sixteen residents removed from the children's home to other
                    institutions, pointedly asking that "each child be made clean and ready to leave."
                    Since the Board of Children's Guardians was responsible for the overcrowded conditions, the
                    TCCHA felt humiliated and wronged. All it could do, however, was to correct conditions by enlarging
                    the building in accord with the specifications set by the Board of State Charities.44
            
            The TCCHA had become impotent, losing its central place in county child welfare and its authority to
                    affect directly children on public support. The one area where the TCCHA retained control was in its
                    service of boarding children (non-wards) as a temporary help to parents. That service was not
                    supported by tax dollars but by private donations and parental payments. Boarding grew to be the
                    TCCHA's primary service.
            Even though the Board of State Charities gained a large measure of control over county institutions
                    and dependent children through state legislation, its direct influence on TCCHA's practice
                    was limited to the minority of residents who were wards. The TCCHA continued to board increasing
                    numbers of children despite condemnation by the state board. The actions of the Board of State
                    Charities could have contributed indirectly to the continuation of boarding practices by causing the
                    TCCHA to reacts to its own legislated impotence by becoming more open to parent placements where
                    they still had control.
            As the Progressive Era was ending, help was available for needy children in conjunction with their
                    parents—not solely in separation from them as it had been thirty years before. Why had
                    this local service for local children developed, notwithstanding the progressive trend away from
                    localism toward integrated central control and government intervention? It could be argued that the
                    TCCHA held on to a nineteenth-century local volunteer orientation because of its consistently
                    conservative board members or because 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     had escaped much of the turmoil connected with urban and industrial changes.45 Certainly these were factors, but they were minor ones compared to the
                    influence of parents and 
                  
                     44
                            CHAM, Vol. 4, November 9, December 8, 1906, March 11, April 9, 1907; 
                        
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                 Board of Children's Guardians Minutes, Vol. 1, June 26,
                            August 7, October 9, 23, November 3, 1906, May 3, May 10, 1907; ibid.,
                            Vol. 4, May 11, August 12, 1907; ibid., Vol. 1, May 10, June 4, 1907; CHAM, Vol. 4, August 12, 1907; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, February 28, 1908; CHAM, Vol. 4, August
                            3, 1907.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Tippecanoe County
                             was one of many sections of Indiana that was little affected by
                            industrialization and urbanization. It experienced a slow, steady expansion and weathered
                            industrial depressions with no bank failures and no labor unrest. Jorosz, "The
                            Industrialization of 
                                Lafayette
                            "; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Daily Courier, July 30, 1896; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Sunday Times, October 25, 1896, July 18, September 5, 1897; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Courier, January 2, 1894, April 2, April 16, 1895, May 18, 1906,
                            August 14, December 11, 1908; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Weekly Journal, May 3, 1897.
               
                     foster parents. The gradual development of a boarding service
                    for needy parents in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     was not unique; it was not limited to that organization, to that locality, or to the
                    state of Indiana. Throughout the country other similar boarding services evolved in child saving
                        associations.46 The extent to which natural parents and foster parents,
                    acting in their own self-interest, shaped the actual practices of progressive child saving groups
                    all over the country indicates that the role of these groups has been largely overlooked because of
                    the institutional bias of welfare historians.
            The founders of both the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Children's Home Association and the Indiana Board of State Charities shared a
                    common Progressive Era perception of dependent children as having only tenuous ties to their parents
                    that could be snipped and reat-tached permanently to good substitute families. The state board was
                    as fully convinced in 1916 that placing out was the best way to help dependent children as it had
                    been in 1890. The TCCHA's child saving preconceptions, however, were undermined in the very
                    first months of operation of its children's home. Its services were shaped by interactions
                    with active partners—natural parents and foster parents. From these interactions the
                    TCCHA learned that natural parents of dependent children were not all bad and that substituted
                    parents were not all good; they learned that children could not easily be separated from their
                    natural parents, nor would foster children necessarily be assimilated into a substitute family as if
                    they belonged there. The realities of their practice forced the TCCHA reluctantly to let go of the
                    child saving belief that all dependent children should be separated from their families and placed
                    in so-called good homes. Consequently, by 1916 child saving by placing out had receded into a minor
                    activity. Through no intention of their own, the members of the TCCHA had become not child savers
                    but family helpers by providing the service of temporary boarding of children for needy parents; its
                    primary service became one that helped parents in a way that preserved the natural family unit. The
                    TCCHA's rhetoric in their annual reports slowly followed the reality of their services, but
                    never fully caught up. Although additional case studies of other localities are needed, this study
                    demonstrates the power to day-to-day interactions with parents and foster parents in changing one
                    organization, the TCCHA, from evangelical child savers to pragmatic family helpers. It confirms
                    Bruce Belling-ham's view that hard-pressed poor parents, rather than being passive subjects
                    of child savers' power, actually used children's institutions as a family
                        resource.47
            
            
               
                  46 Ashby, Saving the Waifs, 32.
               
                  47 Bellingham, "Institution and Family," s35.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            A Round Indiana: Round Barns in the Hoosier State. By John T. Hanou. (
                        West Lafayette
                    , Ind.: Purdue University Press, 1993. Pp. xv, 118. Illustrations, figures, notes,
                    sources, index. Cloth-bound, $29.95; paperbound, $19.95.)
            If I ever drive down an Indiana country road again and unexpectedly come upon a round barn, the
                    surprise will be no one's fault but my own, for John T. Hanou provides a "Catalog
                    of Round Barns" in A Round Indiana: Round Barns in the Hoosier State. In
                    it are descriptions of all 226 round (which here means anything other than four-sided) barns he
                    documented, with pictures of the 111 extant in 1992 and as many historic photographs of destroyed
                    barns as possible.
            The popularity of the round barn comes from two sources: first, the desire of the farmers to be
                    progressive, up-to-date, and modern and second, the sagacity of local builders who capitalized upon
                    the aforementioned aspirations. Sometimes the two reasons fed upon each other. For example, one 1903
                    advertisement claimed: 
                  JEFFERSON COUNTY ROUND BARN, BUILT CA. 1911, RAZED
                            1989–1990
               
                    
                    
                  LAKE COUNTY TWIN ROUND BARNS AND CIRCULAR HOUSE, BUILT 1909–1910
               
                     "Building plans Should be made by Architects of long
                    experience in a special line. Ours is PLANNING and DESIGNING ‘THE IDEAL CIRCULAR
                    BARN.’ A barn without a fault, cheap to construct, handsome in appearance, and proof
                    against storms" (p. 17).
            The round barn owes its genesis to the round silo. This agricultural edifice, which most people
                    probably assume has been around farms as long as farms have been around, was a nineteenth-century
                    manifestation of progress. When, in the 1880s, 
                        Franklin
                     King of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Agricultural Experiment Station began to test round silos rather than square or
                    rectangular ones, his brother, C. E., asked him to design one of the new silos for him along with a
                    new barn. 
                        Franklin
                     combined the projects in "a 90–foot-diameter round barn with his
                    all-wood circular silo positioned in the center&. [This] was the first of a generation of
                    true-circular silo barns, characterized by balloon-frame construction, horizontal wood siding, and a
                    conical roof&" (p. 14).
            Ironically, the Kindig family of builders who were responsible for "one of the largest
                    concentrations of round barns & [with thirty sites] within a fifteen-mile radius centered in
                    eastern 
                        Fulton County
                     " (p. 3) did not like the buildings. In fact, they "considered the
                    round barn to be structurally inferior to the rectangular barn, but they built round barns because
                    of the demand for them" (p. 31).
            Hanou closes his narrative with a call for preservation of these barns if for no other reason than
                    "the round barn has a certain charm not found outside the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     &. Its perfect shape and the graceful outline are readily noticeable and
                    visually pleasing &. In short, the round barn is a masterpiece" (p. 62).
            JOHN C. CARLISLE is professor of English, Purdue
                    University Calumet, 
                        Hammond
                    , Indiana. He serves as the Indiana Member of the Board of Directors of the Lincoln
                    Highway Association and has recently finished "reblazing" the original trail of
                    the highway from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Elkhart
                    /
                        Goshen
                    /MishawakdSouth Bend to 
                        Valparaiso
                     and Dyer, where the "Ideal Section" of four-lane, concrete highway
                    was constructed in the late 1920s.
         
         
            
               Quilts of Indiana: Crossroads of Memories. By the Indiana Quilt Registry
                    Project, Inc. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1991. Pp. viii, 181. Illustrations, map, notes,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $37.50; paperbound, $24.95.)
            Indiana quilts and quiltmakers are the subject of Quilts of Indiana: Crossroads of
                        Memories. Documenting the work of the Indiana Quilt Registry Project (IQRP) for two years,
                    this book details the IQRP-sponsored quilt registration days which found more than three thousand
                    Indiana quilts and recorded their history, often for the first time. Valuable as both fiber art and
                    historical artifacts, these quilts, together with photographs and details of their makers, take
                    their rightful place against the larger background of Indiana history.
            
            Some special characteristics of quilts made in Indiana emerge from this colorful volume. Perhaps as a
                    result of early migration from the states of 
                        Maryland
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    , Indiana quiltmakers excelled at the art of applique. Of particular note is the
                    whimsical fork art work of Mary Jane Kirkpatrick Harlan (pp. 22–23) from 
                        Rush County
                    . Then there is the masterful Harrison Rose quilt by Susan McCord (pp.
                    36–37), a prolific quiltmaker whose quilts are preserved in the Henry Ford Museum.
                    Finally, there are the numerous Art Nouveau applique compositions of Marie Webster from 
                        Wabash
                    , Indiana. Marie Webster is so revered by American needleworkers that her family home is
                    being restored as a museum to the quilter's craft.
            Outstanding pieced quilts are likewise represented. The somber, but striking, Mariner's
                    Compass quilt made by Susan Brack-ney from 
                        Brazil
                    , Indiana, is a prime example of the beauty of geometric patchwork. The mint condition
                    Rolling Stone quilt, owned by the Christner family of 
                  Topeka, Kansas
                (p. 160), glows
                    from the page. Especially stunning is Naomi Shields Sillions's Japanese Fans quilt (p.
                    132). This gem combines intricate points, tiny pieces, and curves, all the while serving as the best
                    lesson on complimentary color choice any art teacher could want. That this quilt was made by a
                    thirteen-year-old girl is both humbling and awe-inspiring.
            
               Quilts of Indiana documents quilts from as early as 1800 to contemporary quilts
                    which commemorate current events, such as the 1986 tenth anniversary quilt made by the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Women's Bureau (pp. 158–59). The book displays excellent
                    photography, featuring some of the more pastel quilts against a black background to better highlight
                    their subtle details.
            Quiltmakers, of course, will love this book, but Hoosier history buffs will also appreciate the way
                    in which simple objects like quilts can make history real to the reader. Non-quilters and readers
                    unfamiliar with Indiana history will also enjoy Quilts of Indiana; this book is a
                    tempting visual treat for anyone who appreciates the beauty of the art of everyday people.
            PEPPER CORY is author of four books on quiltmaking and a
                    designer of quilting and painting stencils and templates. In addition to writing, designing, and
                    teaching, she also judges quilt shows and appraises antique quilts.
         
         
            
               Reclaiming the Past: Landmarks of Women's History. Edited by Page
                    Putnam Miller. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1992. Pp. 232. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $35.00.)
            A dearth of National Park Service (NPS) and National Historic Landmarks Program sites that include
                    women in an interpretation of the built environment prompted preparation of Reclaiming
                        the  Past. The volume's seven essays focus on
                    broad themes: architecture (Barbara J. Howe), the arts (Barbara Melosh), community (Gail Lee
                    Dubrow), education (Helen Lefkowitz Horowitz), politics (Joan HoM, religion (Jean R. Soderlund), and
                    work (Lynn Y. Weiner), in an effort to "focus attention on historic structures associated
                    with women's history and to provide the contextual framework for making judgements about
                    sites that are of national significance" (p. 21). The authors aim to "stimulate
                    increased efforts to connect women's past to tangible resources" and thereby to
                    help "Americans to get in touch with important parts of their past" (p. 23).
            Howe's essay points out that although women initiated the early historic preservation
                    campaigns to save buildings that interpret a broad spectrum of the American past, little note has
                    been made of their efforts. In fact, a striking feature of the entire volume is that it reveals the
                    apparent lack of concern regarding aspects of the built environment that reflect women's
                    accomplishments. In part, this is because of the endurance of prevailing male-dominated
                    interpretations of American history. As Melosh notes in her chapter on the arts, for example, women
                    have been "unjustly excluded from the canon" (p. 64). Recent scholarship and a
                    reconsideration of women's culture have promoted a greater understanding of
                    women's contributions to history. The next step is for preservation agencies like the NPS
                    to examine the relationship between physical space and the development of women's social
                    roles by considering the addition of new sites while at the same time integrating an interpretation
                    of women's history into present programs. Federal agencies may need to reevaluate
                    eligibility criteria in order to make them more inclusive of gender and class themes in
                    America's past. Another way to address the deficiency, according to Dubrow, is to integrate
                    "women's historians with this area of expertise into the preservation planning
                    process" (p. 110).
            
               Reclaiming the Past is a well-documented overview of women's contributions
                    to the areas covered in the thematic chapters. It also surveys many structures currently used to
                    interpret that part of the country's past and suggests a multitude of other potential
                    sites. The authors make a plea for a greater understanding of the intersection between the new
                    feminist scholarship and the field of historic preservation. Therefore, the volume is of value for
                    anyone interested in women's history, historic preservation, or an increased depth to the
                    public's understanding of the American past.
            DIANE F. BRITTON is associate professor of history and
                    coordinator of public history at the University of 
                        Toledo
                    . Her most recent publication, History Outreach: Programs for Museums,
                        Historical Organizations, and Academic History Departments (1994) describes co-sponsorship
                    programs that emphasize community involvement.
         
         
         
            
               Calumet & Fleur-de-Lys: Archaeology of Indian and French Contact in the
                        Midcontinent. Edited by John A. Walthall and Thomas E. Emerson. (Washington: Smithsonian
                    Institution Press, 1992. Pp. viii, 307. Maps, bibliographies, tables, figures. $45.00.)
            This volume is the second of two books consisting of papers read at the 1988 Conference on French
                    Colonial Archaeology in the 
                        Illinois
                     Country in 
                        Springfield
                    . The first volume, French Colonial Archaeology: The 
                            Illinois
                         Country and the Western Great Lakes, edited by John A. Walthall, focused on
                    French colonial archaeological sites, whereas the present volume focuses "on historic
                    Native American sites and related topics such as Indian interaction with French colonists"
                    (p. 2).
            Part One, consisting of three papers (or chapters), examines Indian—and, to a considerably
                    lesser extent, French—sites in the French colony of 
                        Louisiana
                    . It provides a historical overview of French and Indian interaction in the region,
                    followed by an examination of the trade between the French and the Creeks in 
                        Alabama
                    , and of the 1673 Michigamea site in 
                        Arkansas
                    .
            Part Two, entitled "The 
                        Illinois
                     Country," begins with a lengthy and rather technical chapter on "The
                    Late Prehistory and Protohistory of 
                        Illinois
                    ." The remaining papers deal with Native American sites at
                            
                  Naples, Illinois
               ; St Ignace, 
                        Michigan
                    ; the Mille Lacs Lake region in 
                        Minnesota
                    ; Arrowsmith, 
                        Illinois
                    ; and, of interest to Indiana readers, Neal L. Trubowitz's archaeological
                    research on the Wea, Kickapoo-Mascouten, and Kethtippecanunk villages, and on nearby Fort Ouyatanon,
                    all in the area around 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana.
            Trubowitz reports on artifacts, the settlement system, "the variable impacts European and
                    Native American cultures had on each other," and "differences in foodways and
                    smoking technology" (pp. 241–42). His findings and analysis to date add a
                    dimension to the knowledge of the Native Americans living side-by-side with the French along the 
                        Wabash
                    .
            The chapter by Lenville J. Stelle on his excavations of the possible 1730 Fox fort at Arrowsmith in
                    northeastern 
                        Illinois
                     is of particular interest to this reviewer because of his own documentary research on
                    the Fox fort. The siege of this fort was one of the great Indian battles of North America. Its site
                    has been disputed for well over a century, and, as Stelle correctly points out, "the
                    location of the site is an empirical question, answerable through archaeology" (p. 274).
                    The results of Stelle's preliminary excavations, particularly of the semisubterranean
                    structures of the Arrowsmith fort, are very encouraging and so far seem to be consistent with the
                    eighteenth-century French descriptions of the Fox fort's internal structures.
            Stelle's report on his Arrowsmith project leaves something to be desired, however, in its
                    incomplete use of recently published documentary  material on
                    the fort. For example, he does not acknowledge (p. 271) the important scale given on both the Lery
                    and 
                        New Orleans
                    -drawn maps of the fort; he also cites the incorrectly translated dimension of the
                    prairie surrounding the fort as "four leagues in circumference" (p. 269). Further,
                    the reference for his source (p. 301) for the Dauteuil de Monceaux (or "Rkaume")
                    battle account fails to identify an author or place and date of publication. Instead he offers a
                    string of French archival series and volumes unrelated to the document in question, followed,
                    finally, by a partial identification of the actual manuscript source. The full identification and
                    location of the original and copies of this manuscript, which are in three
                    archives, are given on pages 92 and 93 of the reviewer's "The Fate of the Fox
                    Survivors" in the winter 1989–1990 issue of the 
                  
                            Wisconsin
                         Magazine of History. This article also includes the reviewer's
                    previous translation of the account. Nevertheless, Stelle's continuation of his exciting
                    research on the fort and its site may finally resolve the age-old mystery of the Fox fort's
                    location.
            Overall, Calumet & Fleur-de-Lys, a well-edited and systematically organized
                    volume, while having some interest for the lay reader, would likely be appreciated most by the
                    specialist in archaeology, anthropology, or ethnohistory.
            JOSEPH L. PEYSER is professor of French at Indiana
                    University 
                        South Bend
                    , and the principal researcher of the French Michilimackinac Research Project. He is the
                    author of Letters from New France: The Upper Country, 1686–1783, and
                    the coauthor, with R. David Edmunds, of The Fox Wars: The Mesquakie Challenge to New
                        France.
         
         
            
               The Vacant Chair: The Northern Soldier Leaves Home. By Reid Mitchell. (
                        New York
                    : Oxford University Press, 1993. Pp. xiv, 201. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $25.00.)
            It is remarkable that the northern soldier persevered amidst the cedar-stands of Murfreesboro and
                    along the banks of Antietam Creek. But what was it that motivated him to leave his comfortable home
                    and endure the horrors of the Civil War? What sustained the volunteer through the terrible conflict
                    and enabled him to stand loyal to the Union?
            Reid Mitchell addresses these and other equally important questions in this thought-provoking book. 
                        Mitchell
                     has transformed a series of unconnected essays into an analysis that successfully fuses
                    military and social history. His unique approach provides a blueprint for future studies on the
                    great national tragedy that continues to capture the American imagination.
            The author views the war in familial terms and explores the importance of community and family values
                    in the arduous transformation of northern volunteer into northern soldier. Union armies evolved into
                    physical manifestations of such values—marching  and
                    fighting extensions of the northern community in which the individual volunteer was raised. 
                        Mitchell
                     employs the concept of "domestic imagery" in his discussion and
                    examines a wide range of topics including discipline in volunteer armies, the relationship of white
                    officers and black soldiers, and the contrasting images of northern and southern women.
            In constructing his theme, the author draws upon an impressive and eclectic collection of primary
                    sources and recent ethnic, gender, and revisionist studies. This interesting bibliographical mixture
                    enhances 
                        Mitchell
                    's perspective on the war's participants and events. Undoubtedly, some
                    of 
                        Mitchell
                    's conclusions will provoke debate among scholars, particularly the sub-chapter
                    entitled "Domesticity and Confederate Defeat" (pp. 160–66). Here the
                    author discusses northern victory and southern defeat within the context of familial ideology and
                    family obligations. Despite the expected interpretational differences generated by such pioneering
                    studies as The Vacant Chair, all serious students of the Civil War will benefit
                    from 
                        Mitchell
                    's unusual approach.
            Mechanically, the writing is quite good and the index sufficient. It is surprising that the editors
                    elected not to include a bibliography, but the extensive notes compensate for this deficiency. Taken
                    altogether, this is another quality offering by an excellent publishing house.
            It is feared that the general public will bypass this book and concentrate upon the many fine
                    narratives of marches and battles that have appeared recently. However, those who desire a better
                    understanding of why the northern soldier left his chair vacant by the family
                    hearth and what reservoir of strength he drew upon until final victory could be achieved will profit
                    from 
                        Mitchell
                    's work.
            ERICH L. EWALD is a Senior Labor Relations Representative
                    for Inland Fisher Guide Division of General Motors in 
                        Anderson
                    , Indiana. He continues to publish "
                        Madison County
                    's Civil War" in 
                  
                            Madison County
                         Monthly. His article on Louis Weichmann and the Lincoln assassination
                    conspiracy is scheduled for the Summer issue of Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History.
         
         
            
               The Wounded River: The Civil War Letters of John Vance Laud-erdale, M. D. Edited
                    by Peter Josyph. (
                  East Lansing: Michigan State
                University Press, 1993. Pp. xii, 241.
                    Illustrations, map, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            The Civil War may have been the first "modern" war in military terms, but in terms
                    of medical and surgical care, the conflict might just as well have been fought in the Dark Ages.
                    Roughly two-thirds of all Civil War casualties resulted from disease. Doctors reported ten million
                    cases of illness and more than four hundred thousand disease-related deaths. Military surgeons
                    operated in an era before an understanding of antitoxins, aseptic surgery, antisepsis, and  bacteriology. Medical personnel and the general population
                    alike were unaware of the relation between disease environments, immunity, sanitation, and insects
                    to illness. Not surprisingly, then, more than forty-four thousand Union soldiers died of diarrhea or
                    dysentery and approximately another thirty-three thousand succumbed to typhoid, typhus, or
                    typho-malarial fever. "Between disease and the Civil War soldier," medical writer
                    Peter Josyph explains, "there was not a fair fight" (p. 21).
            Josyph's The Wounded River is a selective edition of the correspondence of 
                        New York
                     physician John Vance Lauderdale (1832–1931). Soon after receiving his M.D.
                    from the Medical College of the University of 
                        New York
                     in 1862, Lauderdale signed on as a contract surgeon with the 
                        United States
                     Army. In that capacity he worked aboard the hospital steamer D. A.
                    January for less than five months and treated patients for a total of only about forty days.
                    Summarizing his practice, Lauderdale remarked: "We hardly see our patients and make a poor
                    diagnosis before they are off our hands. We cant see the effect of remedies, and the most we try to
                    do is to render our patients as comfortable as possible, and promise them more thorough treatment at
                    the hospitals" (p. 133). According to Josyph, "Lauderdale's letters are
                    & most significant not for what he describes, but for who he becomes, the disposition of his
                    views & deriving, at times, less from what he observes than from what he does not"
                    (p. 32). After civilian service at 
                        New York
                    's Belle-vue Hospital (1862–1864) and as a contract surgeon in 
                        Utah
                     Territory (1864–18651, Lauderdale entered the regular army as assistant
                    surgeon. He earned the rank of surgeon in 1880 and continued to serve until 1896. Upon his death at
                    age ninety-nine he was the oldest officer in the 
                        United States
                     Army.
            Josyph's edition provides limited insights into the diverse qualifications of Civil War-era
                    surgeons (no license was required to practice medicine!) and medical conditions along the
                        Mississippi, Ohio, and Tennessee
                    Rivers. Writing on April 21, 1862, Lauderdale remarked: "It brings a strong man
                    down to the helplessness of a child, to be a victim of war, & it is only the hardy ones that
                    can bear up under such shocks" (p. 48). The following day he complained of the horrible
                    conditions aboard the D. A. January. "It is impossible,"
                    Lauderdale wrote, "to do justice to so many, crowded together as they are in every nook and
                    corner on both decks" (p. 50). At best, he and his fellow surgeons removed tissue,
                    amputated limbs, and tried to stabilize their patients' conditions. Those who survived the
                    jarring journey northward were ferried to more conventional hospitals in 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            Though Lauderdale's correspondence contains some primary material for medical and social
                    historians, especially on the Battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     and its aftermath, The Wounded River falls short as a documentary
                    edition. Most of Lauderdale's comments are pedestrian 
                    observations, at best suggesting his personal and ideological maturation, at worst seeming
                    indifferent to the plight of his patients. The edition also is marred by sloppiness, inattention to
                    detail, and numerous omissions, including an inadequate index. Josyph's introduction, for
                    example, is poorly organized and unevenly documented. He repeatedly fails to annotate essential
                    statements regarding Civil War medicine and provides excessive information on battles and other
                    peripheral issues. Unfortunately Josyph thus misses an important opportunity to use Lauderdale as a
                    case study to document the inadequacies of Civil War-era medical training, knowledge, and care.
            JOHN DAVID SMITH is Alumni
                    Distinguished Professor of History at 
                        North Carolina
                     State University, Raleigh. His most recent publication is Anti-Black
                        Thought, 1863–1925: "The Negro Problem" (11 vols.,
                1993).
         
         
            
               Bright Radical Star: Black Freedom and White Supremacy on the Hawkeye Frontier.
                    By Robert R. Dykstra. (
                  Cambridge, Mass.
               : Harvard University Press, 1993. Pp.
                    [xviil, 348. Maps, tables, appendixes, notes, index. $47.50.)
            How did racist frontier 
                        Iowa
                    , promulgator of an 1851 black exclusion law, become the "bright radical
                    star" of 1866––the first state voluntarily to adopt black suffrage in
                    the early days of Reconstruction? The question is familiar to anyone who has tried to explain the
                    rise of the Republican party in the northern states of the Middle West (including Indiana), where
                    early antipathy to radical abolitionists coexisted with fear and loathing toward African Americans
                    and white-hot enthusiasm for a Union triumph over southern rebellion. At least since Eugene
                    Berwanger's myth-shattering 1967 work, The Frontier Against Slavery,
                    historians have struggled to explain quick reversals and the frequent side-by-side persistence of
                    virulent racism and Radical Republicanism on the middle border. Now comes Robert R. Dykstra with an
                    extraordinary and sophisticated study of a single state's experience with "black
                    freedom and white supremacy" in the four decades bracketing the Civil War.
            Dykstra is one of the most meticulous historians in the business —a determined quantifier,
                    patient researcher, articulate reporter, and graceful stylist—whose virtues combine to
                    make Bright Radical Star at once a model of rigorous analysis and a pleasure to
                    read. Starting with stories about the small black population in Democratic frontier 
                        Iowa
                    , Dykstra introduces a growing cast of characters, confrontations, court cases,
                    political events, and social developments until, nearly two hundred pages later, readers find
                    themselves in a thoroughly Republicanized state on the eve of the Civil War, illegally funneling
                    muskets into 
                        Kansas
                     and singing the praises of murderous John Brown! Deftly skipping the war itself,  Dykstra traces the single theme of support for black civil
                    rights through the war years and picks up political analysis in the Reconstruction period. Here,
                    with a gentle touch, he delivers most of his quantitative analysis, carefully exploring the
                    characteristics and behavior of different categories of voters until he has constructed his answer
                    to the opening question.
            No summary of Dykstra's nuanced argument will do it justice. Too savvy to pretend that
                    Iowans suddenly changed their racist stripes, Dykstra argues that determined Republican leaders,
                    themselves dedicated to racial equality, skillfully guided Hawkeye voters into doing the
                    "right" thing by exploiting their relatively weak attachment to racial prejudice
                    compared to other commitments. With little economic reliance on slavery or black labor, little
                    experience with racial mixing, and weak institutions of discrimination, Iowans could respond to
                    abstract appeals that contradicted visceral racism. In a fascinating final chapter, Dykstra then
                    asks whether idealistic leadership or social policy can indeed overcome racist habits, history, and
                    traditions. His answer is yes: if racist Iowans knowingly could extend the suffrage to blacks in
                    1866, then racism is not immutable. Therefore, efforts to advance the cause of racial
                    justice—late twentieth-century cynicism notwithstanding—are vindicated by this
                    historical example. Readers may not agree with Dykstra's assessment of the possibilities
                    for racial harmony, but they cannot fail to be impressed by the history behind it.
            JOHN LAURITZ LARSON is associate
                    professor of history at Purdue University, 
                        West Lafayette
                    , Indiana. He is currently finishing a book on national internal improvements before the
                    American Civil War.
         
         
            
               The Passage: Return of Indiana Painters from 
                            Germany
                        , 1880–1905. By Martin Krause. (
                  Indianapolis: Indianapolis
               
                    Museum of Art and Wallraf-Richartz-Museum, Cologne, in cooperation with Indiana University Press,
                    1991. Pp. 280. Illustrations, notes. $39.95. This book is available from Indiana
                    University Press, 601 N. Morton St., 
                        Bloomington
                    , IN 47405.)
            At least 250 young Americans are known to have sought artistic training in 
                        Munich
                     between 1870 and 1885. Even more went to the main alternative center, 
                        Paris
                    . Although it fundamentally changed the course of American art, the nationwide movement
                    is too diffuse and too poorly documented to afford a clear picture of just how it had this powerful
                    effect. The outstanding exception to this generalization, however, is the group of Indiana artists
                    whom Martin Krause has taken as the subject of his valuable book, The Passage. He
                    focuses his study primarily on the work of three of the founders of landscape painting in Indiana,
                    Theodore Clement Steele (1849–19261, John Otis Adams (1851–19271, and William
                    Forsyth (1854–1935), who, together with other young artists, went  from Indiana to 
                        Munich
                     in the early 1880s, returned to Indiana before the end of the decade, and continued to
                    interact and influence one another until about 1905. They make an ideal study, because their
                    experience in 
                        Munich
                     is exceptionally well documented through both works of art and correspondence, and
                    because the three artists seldom painted outside the state. It remains for other studies to extend
                        The Passage's field of vision, to give proper weight to the career of
                    Otto Stark (1859–1926) and other artists who do not fit the dominant pattern of 
                        Munich
                     training, and to contrast the parallel development of artistic identities in
                    neighboring 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , which doubtless had a powerful effect on the perhaps not-so-isolated Indiana painters.
            
               The Passage is appropriately organized into five sections of extended text, which
                    provide the historical background for the drawings and paintings discussed individually on the
                    following pages, generally in chronological order. As useful and interesting as the section
                    introductions are, the great strength of the book is in the sensitive entries that face each of the
                    116 full-color, full-page illustrations of the drawings, watercolors, and paintings by Steele,
                    Adams, and Forsyth, as well as a number of related artists, almost all dating from 1881 to 1904, the
                    period of the artists' best work. Discussing several paintings each for most of those key
                    years, Krause is able to describe, step-by-step, the evolution of the artists' styles,
                    their influences upon one another, and their pictorial exploration of their native state. The
                    carefully documented entries communicate a close knowledge of and affection for both the paintings
                    and the locations these artists perceived as beautiful.
            
               The Passage, which documents the exhibition that was seen in 
                        Cologne
                     and 
                  Mainz, Germany
               , and at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Museum of Art from November, 1990, to February, 1992, ends with a useful chronology of
                    its subject and a checklist and catalog entries of the works that were included in that exhibition.
                    Handsomely printed in a generous format and gracefully written, it stands on its own as the
                    authoritative treatment of its subject and a treasury of the most impressive and appealing images
                    the movement produced.
            MICHAEL QUICK was curator of American Art at the 
                        Los Angeles County
                     Museum of Art from 1976 to 1993. He now directs the research of the George Inness
                    catalogue raisonne project in 
                  Santa Monica, California
               .
         
         
            
               Proletarians of the North: A History of Mexican Industrial Workers in 
                            Detroit
                         and the Midwest, 1917–1933. By Zaragosa Vargas. (Berkeley:
                    University of 
                        California
                     Press, 1993. Pp. xv, 277. Maps, graphs, tables, illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index, $40.00.)
            Vargas's work, which documents the lives of industrial workers in 
                        Detroit
                     and the Midwest during the first major wave of Mexican  migration to the region between World War I and 1933, is a welcome
                    addition to the growing Chicano historical literature on the Midwest. The first book-length urban
                    history of Chicanos in the region, it focuses mostly on "Dynamic 
                        Detroit
                    " and its automobile workers, whose lives are unveiled from oral histories,
                    unpublished reports, and the Henry Ford archives. Vargas portrays the complexity of the working
                    lives and the social and cultural experiences of Mexicanos who for the first time entered the
                    industrial proletariat of the nation. The work is divided into sections that examine the origins of
                    migration to the Midwest, the first wave of settlement in 
                        Detroit
                     from 1917 to 1921, the second phase of settlement from 1922 to 1933, and finally, the
                    Great Depression.
            Large-scale Mexican migration to the Midwest began at the outbreak of World War I, during a boom
                    period when employers quickly recruited workers to offset the curtailment of migration from Europe.
                    Mexicanos eagerly accepted the offers of work, according to Vargas, not out of economic necessity,
                    but a desire to improve their living standards and escape second-class status in 
                        Texas
                    . They found a hierarchy in employment in the region, and the top of the line in the
                    1920s was the automobile industry, which typically attracted workers already in the north and
                    experienced in other occupations. Ford became the largest employer, and in the late 1920s hired more
                    Mexicanos than any other company in the nation. Most other companies hired smaller, but still
                    substantial, numbers of Mexican workers, but only Buick engaged in formal recruitment efforts. Still
                    others, like Studebaker, Packard, Maxwell, Cadillac, and Willys-Overland in 
                        Toledo
                    , as well as Fisher Body, excluded Mexicanos through a policy of requiring
                    naturalization papers.
            Life in the Mexican colonies of the region varied according to work, population density, gender
                    balance, the success of social and fraternal organizations, the church, as well as relations with
                    non-Mexicanos. In most urban locations, the culture was predominantly male and constantly in flux.
                    For women, the urban Midwest was also a complex experience. Vargas suggests that it was enriching
                    for those who could achieve a wage income, which served as a means to achieve an unprecedented
                    degree of independence from traditional controls.
            With the onset of the Great Depression, the dream of active participation in the American way of life
                    was at least temporarily shattered by unemployment, discrimination, and an intense racism by
                    dominant Euro-American society that singled out Mexicanos to blame for the nation's woes.
                    Repatriation upset midwestern urban colonias much more profoundly than those of the Southwest. As
                    Vargas notes, the glitter of the urban Midwest and the shallowness of the accumulationist culture of
                    the 1920s suddenly were exposed. But the Mexicanos who survived were better prepared for the next
                    round of struggle later in the decade.
            DENNIS NODÍN VALDÉS
                    is associate professor of Chicano studies at the University of 
                  Minnesota, Minneapolis
               .
         
         
         
            
               Voices of American Homemakers. Edited by Eleanor Arnold. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, [19931. Pp. 295. Illustrations. Clothbound,
                    $25.00; paperbound, $10.95.)
            The National Extension Homemakers Council (NEHC) commemorated its fiftieth anniversary in 1986 with a
                    national oral history project modeled on the successful Indiana Extension Home-makers Association
                    oral history project, Memories ofHoosier Home-makers. One product of this
                    nationwide effort is Voices of American Homemakers, originally published by the
                    NEHC in 1985 and recently reprinted in hardback by Indiana University Press. Eleanor Arnold, who
                    directed the Indiana project and edited the six-volume Hoosier Homemakers series,
                    brought her valuable experience to the same roles in the national undertaking. Supported by two
                    grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the project involved collaboration between
                    professional historians and the numerous volunteers who gathered over two hundred oral histories of
                    rural women from thirty-seven different states. Transcripts of interviews will provide historians
                    with rich primary sources on the lives of rural women.
            
               Voices of American Homemakers, like the Hoosier Homemaker
                    volumes, is comprised of a series of interview excerpts arranged by topic. The book has four major
                    sections, each with additional thematic divisions. "The Homemaker and Her Life"
                    provides information on growing up, education, courtship, marriage, childbirth, and childrearing;
                    "The Homemaker and Her Work covers a variety of housekeeping tasks and the changing
                    technologies associated with these chores; "The Homemaker and Her Organization"
                    offers data on the "Home Ed' clubs and lessons, the extension agents, and the
                    benefits of club membership; and "The Homemaker and Herself contains lengthy interviews
                    with four women.
            
               Voices of American Homemakers reflects both the strengths and weaknesses of the Hoosier Homemaker series. Like the Indiana volumes, the national collection offers
                    revealing recollections of rural customs, communities, lifestyles, and values. The straightforward
                    and often eloquent words of the rural homemakers reaffirm the worth of oral history as a method for
                    recording life experiences of ordinary people. Similar to the Hoosier volumes, however, this
                    collection deals with growing up, courtship, and childbirth without providing much insight on either
                    sexual attitudes or behavior. The closest this volume comes to addressing these issues is a 
                        Nebraska
                     woman's recollection of a birth control discussion at a meeting in 1938 and
                    the remark by an 
                        Alabama
                     woman: "I didn't have any family planning at all, and I
                    don't think six children was too many" (p. 97).
            Although the plethora of brief excerpts occasionally overwhelms the reader of the Hoosier volumes, a
                    rough chronological 
                    
                  WOMAN EXAMINES PICKLED GOODS FOR PURCHASE AT COUNTY FAIR
                  
               
                     ordering of recollections under most topics provides a coherent
                    sense of change over time in rural Indiana. Such coherence is lacking in Voices of
                        American Homemakers, where there is neither a chronological arrangement nor a regional
                    organization of excerpts within the topical framework. The various sections thus present a jumble of
                    reminiscences that require the reader to determine the significance of geographical and generational
                    differences with little help from the editor. Although clearly less successful than the more
                    cohesive Indiana series, Voices of American Homemakers nonetheless serves as an
                    engaging introduction to the valuable data gathered in the national project. It is hoped that other
                    states might eventually produce series like Eleanor Arnold's fine Hoosier
                        Home-makers.
            BARBARA STEINSON is professor and chair of the history
                    department at DePauw University, 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana. She has published American Women's Activism in World
                        War I (1982). Her current research is on rural women in Indiana.
         
         
            
               "Daddy's Gone to War": The Second World War in the Lives
                        of America's Children. By William M. Tuttle, Jr. (
                        New York
                    : Oxford University Press, 1993. Pp. xiv, 365. Tables, notes, notes on sources, index.
                    $30.00.)
            The fifty-year anniversaries of World War II have sparked all manner of commemoration and memory.
                    Most have focused on those who fought the war in uniform, with some attention to such home front
                    contributors as "Rosie the Riveter." William M. Tuttle, Jr., brings an overlooked
                    group to the forefront by demonstrating how important the war was to children and how important it
                    remains in the lives of Americans who were children fifty years ago.
            
               "Daddy's Gone to War" ranges widely, exploring the
                    meaning of absent fathers, working mothers, latchkey children, war games, entertainment, health
                    care, school, racial conflict—all from the perspective of Americans born between 1932 and
                    1945. Tuttle builds his analysis on a mountain of primary and secondary historical sources (and
                    includes very helpful endnotes), on the scholarly literature in the social sciences, particularly
                    psychology, and on oral history interviews and letters from 2,500 Americans who responded to his
                    call for memories of the war.
            The strength of Tuttle's book is to bring together two issues of great
                    interest—World War II itself and the consequences and memories of it for a particular
                    generation of Americans. Tuttle shows the searing effect of the war in its red, white, and blue
                    patriotism and sacrifice, its sex-role stereotyping, and its nightmares induced by fears of death
                    and separation from fathers. For children of this generation this war lasted until long after 1945
                    because they faced the Cold War, 
                        Vietnam
                    , civil rights, the feminist movement, and  other
                    challenges of the 1960s and beyond with World War II experiences and memories firmly in place. Some
                    home front children remained attached to a good versus evil form of patriotism of the kind displayed
                    in Frank Capra's Why We Fight series. Some in their forties and fifties
                    came to see America in terms of decline from the sacrifice and high moral purpose that they
                    identified with the early 1940s. In the 1990s they remember and commemorate the "good
                    war" partly to educate younger Americans in their version of morality and patriotism. Some
                    war children grew to adulthood to become more distrustful of authority, especially during the 1960s,
                    and changed their understanding of World War II. "We were taught," one woman later
                    recalled of her childhood war years, that "to ask questions was to show lack of patriotism.
                    What a crock" (p. 258)!
            In sorting out these long-term effects, Tuttle has made a significant contribution not only to
                    understanding what happened fifty years ago but to thinking about what has happened in the fifty
                    years since. "Daddy's Gone to War" brings home the
                    centrality of life cycles, generational change, and memory in American history.
            JAMES H. MADISON is professor and chair of the Department
                    of History at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , where he teaches a course on the American Home Front during World War 11.
         
         
            
               Living in the Depot: The Two-Story Railroad Station. By H. Roger Grant. (
                        Iowa City
                    : University of 
                        Iowa
                     Press, 1993. Pp. xiv, 131. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $32.95.)
            This well-researched volume examines the American railroad depot in social and architectural terms,
                    aspects which usually go unremarked. After differentiating between depots, which were single
                    buildings, and stations, which were a collection of structures, H. Roger Grant traces depots from
                    their beginnings as existing trackside hotels, stores, or residences to highly specialized buildings
                    developed by individual railroads for their particular needs. As its title indicates, the book deals
                    only with those depots which, in addition to being the community's transportation and
                    social center, served as living quarters for the agent and his family. This comprised about
                    one-fifth of all depots erected in the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     (p. 1).
            As rails extended westward, often preceding settlement, housing for the agent frequently developed
                    into an acute problem. Railroads solved this problem by adding a second story or, less frequently,
                    by expanding the depot at ground level. This type was concentrated most heavily in the Northern
                    Plains States, the Far West, Southwest, and Canadian 
                        Prairie
                     Provinces. They were rare in Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                     (p. 17). Profusely illustrated from the collection of John P. Vander Maas, a
                            
                  Muscatine, Iowa
               , business-man, 
                    
                  TWO-STORY c&Nw STATION ON
                            THE PLAINVIEW RAILROAD BRANCH,
                            c. 1890, PLAINVIEW, MINNESOTA
                  
               
                     more than 150 photos, supplemented by floor plans and
                    elevations, graphically illustrate the text.
            Most railroads developed standard plans for one, two, and three bedroom units and used these
                    throughout their systems. They were spartan, many lacking water and plumbing; yet they were typical
                    of rural and frontier housing in their areas and during their time. Most were gaunt, stark
                    structures but occasionally Gothic barge-boards or Italianate brackets were seen, along with porches
                    and wide roof overhangs. A few sported attractive dormers.
            In addition to solving the agent's housing problem, the live-in depot discouraged burglaries
                    and provided immediate personnel in case of emergencies. It eliminated commuting, which might be
                    unreliable, and lowered insurance rates because of round-the-clock occupancy. Living in the depot,
                    however, had its disadvantages. Danger from fire, train wrecks, and even avalanches was always
                    present, and the roar of passing trains was annoying.
            The practice of living in the station declined rapidly after World War II because traveling agents
                    replaced many in residence, and the need for telegraph operators diminished as centralized
                    electronic dispatching expanded.
            The book is easy, delightful reading, suited both to the rail and the social historian. It reinforces
                    Grant's credentials as one of the nation's two or three foremost contemporary
                    scholarly rail historians.
            RICHARD S. SIMONS is president of the Indiana Historical
                    Society board of trustees. He is author of The Rivers of Zndiana and contributing
                    editor of Popular Mechanics Picture History of American Transportation.
         
         
            
               The Draft, 1940–1973. By George Q. Flynn. (Lawrence: University Press
                    of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1993. Pp. xiv, 376. Illustrations, tables, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $45.00.)
            Military conscription contradicts basic American ideals of individual liberty but engenders arguments
                    for civic duty. George Q. Flynn advances a sound historical analysis that rejects polemical
                    characterizations of draftees as either citizen-soldiers or cannon fodder. He finds that both
                    proponents and opponents of the draft have exaggerated. The Selective Service System provided
                    adequate manpower to meet the nation's needs through three wars. Its failings were largely
                    political and social, which, Flynn contends, were not the fault of draft procedures themselves but
                    were the product of more fundamental tensions in American life.
            Flynn is the biographer of General Lewis B. Hershey, the Hoosier who headed Selective Service from
                    1941 to 1970, and Hershey figures prominently in this book. Former Indiana Governor Paul McNutt,
                    director of the War Manpower Commission during World War II, receives brief mention.
                    Hershey's system received  repeated endorsements from
                    presidents, Congress, and the public. He made a political mistake, however, when he approved denying
                    draft deferments to antidraft protesters during the Vietnam War. Flynn argues perceptively that this
                    move to silence dissent gave a weapon to critics that already characterized conscription as a
                    violation of civil liberties. The gradual erosion of political support for Selective Service led
                    finally to its replacement with an all-volunteer force (AVF).
            The book's best insights are into the national myths and dilemmas that the draft exposed. As
                    the name Selective Service revealed, not everyone was needed to serve in World War II, 
                        Korea
                    , or 
                        Vietnam
                    . Without universal service, two cherished values clashed. Faith in the efficiency of
                    scientific management decreed that it was possible to place the right person in the right job.
                    Egalitarian notions of democracy assumed that random selection was the most equitable. These
                    mutually exclusive theories plagued Selective Service's classification of registrants
                    throughout its existence. Centralized management through national rules and quotas also warred with
                    politically driven reliance on local draft boards that interpreted the rules and filled the quotas.
                    This analysis masterfully blends military, political, and social history. Finally, Flynn argues that
                    Richard Nixon politically embraced the AVF to lessen public dissatisfaction with an unpopular war.
                    Statistical profiles reveal, however, that the AVF is no more efficient or democratic than the draft
                    and that the dilemmas inherent in converting civilians to soldiers remain unresolved. If the nation
                    faces a long-term, mass deployment of troops in some future war, Flynn concludes, the effective but
                    flawed draft might well reappear.
            DAVID L. ANDERSON is professor of history at the
                    University of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . His most recent book is Shadow on the White House: Presidents and the
                        Vietnam War, 1945–1975 (1993). He is currently writing a book on minority
                    military service in 
                        Vietnam
                    .
         
         
            
               New Dimensions in American Religious History: Essays in Honor of Martin E.
                    Marty. Edited by Jay P. Dolan and James P. Wind. (
                  Grand
                            Rapids, Mich.
               : William B.
                    Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1993. Pp. xi, 329. Illustrations, notes, bibliographies.
                    $29.99.)
            This collection of twelve essays has been edited and published to honor Martin E. Marty, called by
                        Time magazine "the most influential living interpreter of religion in
                    the US." In this volume Marty's students document the range of his interests. The
                    editors have grouped the essays under three categories: Public Religion, New Directions in American
                    Religious History, and Religious Fundamentalism. Each of the three represents a significant focus in
                    Marty's professional interests and publication record. And what a publication record he
                    has! The editors include a "Select Bibliography"  of publications by Marty dealing with the themes of the
                    volume—three hundred titles in all which they estimate form approximately a tenth of his
                    total bibliography—and he has not yet retired. The bibliography confirms what
                    Marty-watchers have known for a long time, namely, his range and productivity are staggering.
            It is rare when the essays in a festschrift collectively achieve lasting significance. This volume is
                    no exception in that regard. Despite the best efforts of the editors to organize the disparate
                    contributions, readers will experience a sense of disjunction as they move through the collection.
                    For instance, the five essays presented under the category of "Public Religion"
                    focus on three different national cultures—the 
                  United
                            States, Canada
               , and 
                        Japan
                    —and range across art history, mission history, publishing history,
                    ecumenical history, and the history of medical ethics. One might argue that this diversity
                    accurately reflects Marty's own wide ranging interests—and it does. But,
                    unfortunately, the reader's journey is not an easy one. The second group of essays is even
                    more disparate, dealing respectively with Thomsonian medicine in the nineteenth century, American
                    Catholic historiography, recent hymnody and church music, and the religious pilgrimages of three
                    twentieth-century women. The third section of essays has ostensibly the tightest integration as all
                    deal with some aspect of American fundamentalisms.
            Several of the articles warrant careful attention by readers. Sally M. Promey's account of
                    John Singer Sargent's murals in the 
                        Boston
                     Public Library is a valuable contribution from a sub-discipline infrequently
                    contributing to the study of American religion. Catherine L. Albanese demonstrates the close
                    conjunction between Thomsonian medicine and the politics of Jacksonian America. R. Scott
                    Appleby's use of the concept of the "enclave" as a way of speaking about
                    an American Catholic fundamentalism is most instructive. In other words, these and other essays in
                    the collection have much to offer, but as is often the case with such volumes, here the whole is
                    less than the sum of its parts.
            STEPHEN J. STEIN is professor and chair of the department
                    of religious studies at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He is author of The Shaker Experience in America (1992) and is
                    preparing an edition of Jonathan Edwards's biblical notebooks for The Works of
                        Jonathan Edwards.
         
         
            
               The Bill of Rights in Modern America: After 200 Years. Edited by David J.
                    Bodenhamer and James W. Ely, Jr. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1993. Pp. x, 246. Bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $29.95; paperbound, $12.95.)
            David J. Bodenhamer and James W. Ely have brought together a distinguished and eclectic group of
                    historical and constitutional  scholars to write on the very
                    large subject of the Bill of Rights (literally the first eight or perhaps nine amendments) of the
                    Constitution of the 
                        United States
                     after two hundred years. These writers are a wide-ranging group who are at various
                    points in the current ideological spectrum regarding constitutional interpretation. The
                    editors' agenda is clearly to let the selected writers have the freedom to advocate a wide
                    variety of positions, but the agenda of the editors is also clearly to inform. This collection
                    differs somewhat in its format but compares favorably to the classic The Birth of the
                        Bill of Rights, first published in 1955 by Robert A. Rutland.
            Some writers choose to argue aggressively for a so-called living constitution made fashionable by
                    such justices as the recently retired William J. Brennan. Others argue for a species of judicial
                    restraint that might be pleasing to Felix Frankfurter or John Marshall Harlan II. It can be said
                    without equivocation that each of the writers did their historical homework well.
            It is especially courageous for Randy E. Barnett to attempt to make some sense out of the Ninth
                    Amendment of the Constitution and to frame his argument into almost Borkian original understanding
                    without wading into the current efforts to use that amendment as a basis for personal and sexual
                    privacy. In like vein, co-editor Ely argues for a renewed concern for so-called property rights.
            The structure of the book is especially appealing in that it puts the notes plus bibliographic essays
                    and the all-important table of cases at the end and does not clutter up the narration. Of particular
                    moment to this reviewer is the attention that is given to Barnes u. Glen Theatre,
                    better known as the Kitty Kat Lounge nude dancing case, a 1991 Supreme Court decision emanating from 
                        South Bend
                    , Indiana, by eminent constitutional historian, Paul L. Murphy, in his insightful piece
                    on symbolic speech and the First Amendment. This case was listed along with the flag-burning case
                    and the hate speech cases which came along at the same time.
            The bibliographic essays, while not extended, are highly useful. When one looks at the totality of
                    these writings, the ideas and formulations advanced in one time frame by certain groups in society
                    in order to influence a particular decisional result may well in another time, and by other interest
                    groups, be taken up to achieve different results. The 
                        Warren
                     court was both praised and criticized for judicial activism and the setting aside of
                    long established precedent. It was also criticized for making value choices that should be made by
                    the elected legislative and executive branches. Those who made those criticisms in the 
                        Warren
                     era often paid great homage to the democratically elected legislators and executive. In
                    current terms, one sees those who fear that some of the basic decisions of the 
                        Warren
                     court are endangered making the same kinds of argument for stare
                    decisis and a new species of legal formalism. There  can be
                    little doubt that some of the basic seeds of so-called substantive due process were sowed as early
                    as Justice Samuel Chase's majority opinion in Calder u. Bull in 1798
                    (which germinated in the dissent of Justice Stephen Field in the Slaughterhouse cases in 1873), and
                    were given something of a decent judicial burial, at least in the economic context in 1937.
                    Likewise, ideas of judicial restraint were expressed in Justice Iredell's opinion in Calder v. Bull, as well as in the first Justice Harlan's sole dissent in
                    the 1883 Civil Rights cases. Because of its compact brevity, as well as the wide variety of opinion
                    which is proffered, along with superb bibliographic essays, this "small" book will
                    be an excellent supplemental teaching device, more than justifying the time spent by the editors and
                    the authors.
            ALLEN SHARP is Chief Judge of the 
                        United States
                     District Court, Northern District of Indiana. He regularly teaches courses in
                    constitutional history at Butler University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Indiana University, 
                        South Bend
                    .
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
