
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 51, Issue 4, pages 279-404. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:51+issue:4+year:1955&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Benjamin Harrison and the Republican Party in the South, 1889-1893
            
                    Vincent P. De Santis
                    *
                
            Benjamin Harrison has frequently been described as a respectable front for the Republican machine and
                    as a President who remained aloof from the political activities of the party organization. That he
                    played neither role can be attested by the high respect both friend and foe alike had for his
                    political capacities and can be demonstrated by his own vigorous action in determining party
                    strategy. This was especially true of his efforts to crack the Democratic South and to regain for
                    his party the political ascendancy it had enjoyed in this section in the early years of
                    reconstruction. For while Harrison might have sweated ice water on other matters, he worked
                    feverishly throughout his presidency to rejuvenate southern Republicanism and plunged into the work
                    with all of the skill of the consummate politician that he was. It is also a phase of Republican
                    history and of Harrison's presidency that has been sadly neglected.
            The presidential election of 1888 had both pleased and troubled Republican leaders. While they
                    controlled both the presidency and Congress for the first time since 18751, they
                    still remained a sectional party, with negligible appeal in the South. Despite the strenuous
                    attempts of Hayes, Garfield, and Arthur to recapture political control of the South, Republican
                    strength had steadily diminished to the point where it offered 
                  
                     * Vincent P. DeSantis is assistant professor of history at
                            the University of Notre Dame.
                  
                     1 The Republicans did have control of all branches of the federal
                            government following the election of 1880, but they had a margin of only one in the House
                            and had organized the Senate only through the co-operation of William Mahone, the
                            "readjustor" from 
                                Virginia
                            . See Arthur N. Holcombe, The Political Parties of Today (
                                New York
                            , 1924), 90-91, 185, 205; Congressional Record, 47th Cong.,
                            Special Sess., 6, 20-25.
               
                     little or no opposition to the Democrats.2
                    In some southern states the Republican party had practically disappeared, as for instance in 
                        South Carolina
                    , where it had not put up a state ticket since 1876. In other states independent
                    movements and leaders controlled it, as in the case of William Mahone and his
                    "readjusters" in 
                        Virginia
                    . Few influential southern whites affiliated with the Republican party, and it lacked
                    money, newspapers, and assistance from the national committee. Republicans rarely appeared in the
                    South except at national conventions or when a president of their party had some patronage to hand
                    out. Many Republicans would have agreed with the observation of a white from 
                        Tennessee
                     when he wrote, "in abandoning the South… the Republican party had
                    thrown away its best territory for future growth and had violated sound political
                        rules."3
            
            On the other hand many Republicans hoped with a county chairman in 
                        Texas
                     "for a better time for Republicanism in the South" under Harrison.4 But the problem of methods for rejuvenation there still plagued Republican
                    leaders. Every stratagem to build a strong party in the South had failed. Military reconstruction
                    had alienated southern whites and had been a costly price for the few years of Republican supremacy
                    following the Civil War. Although since 1877 Republican policies had appealed mainly to whites to
                    win their confidence and respect, by 1888 the Republican party had fewer white supporters in the
                    South than it had had under Grant. The time had come for a reappraisal of strategy, and with the
                    Republicans in complete control in 
                        Washington
                     the occasion for a fresh try to win in this section could not have been better.
            Sensing that Harrison planned to do something spectacular about the South, political observers began
                    to make their usual predictions. The most persistent was that Republicans would revive their
                    reconstruction policies so as to protect party voters against fraud and intimidation. Another had
                    Harrison planning to ignore Negroes and former carpetbaggers and to work with native white leaders
                    of the new South who were 
                  
                     2 Vincent P. De Santis, "Republican Efforts to
                            ‘Crack’ the Democratic South, Review of Politics
                            (Notre Dame, Indiana, 1939-), XIV (1952), 244-264.
                  
                     3 George B. Cowlan to William D. Kelley, 
                        Knoxville, Tennessee
                     , November 9, 1885, Benjamin Harrison Papers, Library of
                            Congress. Kelley was congressman from 
                        Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
                     .
                  
                     4 W. H. McCarven to Benjamin Harrison, 
                        Carthage, Texas
                     , November 17, 1888, Harrison Papers.
               
                     already economically oriented toward the Northeast. Still other
                    stories had Harrison deciding to woo high protective tariff Democrats in the South and to smash the
                    many cliques of Republican bosses through a judicious handling of patronage. Accompanying these
                    predictions was a heavy pressure on Harrison from various Republican quarters to make an energetic
                    assault upon the Democratic South.5
            
            Harrison had inspired some of this speculation when he had asked certain friends to submit detailed
                    plans on methods of dealing with the so-called "southern question." But most of
                    the ideas, plans, and demands came on a voluntary basis, and a flood of them passed under
                    Harrison's eye in the interval between election and inauguration. Republicans bombarded
                    Harrison with information about election frauds and intimidation and asked for laws and officials to
                    correct the ballot box outrages, to enforce the laws, and to uphold free speech, free elections, and
                    an honest count in the South. They asked him to avoid the mistakes made by his predecessors in the
                    South, especially in his selection of a southern adviser on patronage and in thinking that
                    ex-Confederate leaders controlled the southern whites. They wanted him to abandon the
                    self-constituted Republican leaders in the South and to give up any policy which might cause
                    southern whites to fear Negro supremacy, for a "Negro party will always be confronted by a
                    white party and be beaten by fair or foul means." Above all he should avoid the folly of
                    appointing Democrats to office in the South "unless there ain't enough Republicans
                    to go around."6
            
            But most Republicans looked upon the matter of good appointments as the primary way to ingratiate
                    their party with the South, especially with its white population. When a 
                  
                     5
                            
                        
                                    New York
                                 Age, November 24 and December 15, 1888, and January 5, 1889; Dallas Morning News, March 25, 1889.
                  
                     6 See, for example, H. C. Parsons to Harrison, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , February 5, 1889; John E. Bryant to Harrison, 
                                New York
                            , March 1, 1889; Henry Booth to Harrison, 
                        Montgomery, Alabama
                     ,
                            December 4, 1888; L. F. Miller to General J. W. C. New, November 27, 1888; R. Symmes Tharin
                            to Harrison, 
                                South Carolina
                            , April 9, 1889; Francis B. Purdie to Harrison, 
                        Montgomery, Alabama
                     ,
                            November 26, 1888;William E. Chandler to Harrison, December 22, 1888; Albert H. Dowell to
                            Harrison, 
                        Raleigh, North
                                    Carolina
                     , February 5, 1889; W. H. Gibbs to Harrison, 
                                Mississippi
                            , November 17, 1888; Cecil H. Plummer to Harrison, 
                        Green Cove Springs, Florida
                     , December 11, 1889; James Aikin to Harrison,
                                    
                        Dallas, Texas
                     , March 27, 1889; F. D. Squires to Harrison,
                                    
                        Birmingham, Alabama
                     , November 19, 1889; these letters are all in
                            the Harrison Papers. For the first quotation see Booth to Harrison, and for the second
                            Miller to New.
               
                     white from 
                        South Carolina
                     asked Harrison, "Why is it that heretofore we have had a bad class of
                    leaders—all of our Federal offices filled by men who do not care a rap
                    for the addition of good men to our ranks?" he touched upon a sensitive but extremely
                    important issue. When he urged Harrison to "Take time—give us good Federal
                    officers," he drove home a point that had confronted Republican leaders since 1865.7 Yet while Republicans insisted that the prosperity of their party in the South
                    depended upon good appointments, they had various definitions of what these meant. Some limited it
                    to intelligent conservative whites, others recommended only native whites who had been Whigs, still
                    others believed that only young Democrats of protection proclivities filled the bill. Some wanted
                    Harrison to choose only the "Post-Bellum Class of men," for "the old
                    rebel Dems. would never change their politics, and the negroes could not be depended upon to
                    maintain a party by themselves." A few wanted Harrison to make a clean sweep of all the
                    federal officeholders in the South and to name only those men loyal to the Union and the
                        Constitution.8 Such varying interpretations confused and puzzled Harrison as
                    they had his predecessors, and they pointed up the immense difficulty of finding a solution to
                    please everyone.
            While Republicans pressed Harrison for good appointments they also asked him to exclude the Negro
                    from party leadership and patronage in the South. This was especially true of southern Republicans
                    who wanted to grab control of the party in their own state. The question of building a
                    "lily-white" party in the South had frequently confronted Republican leaders since
                    reconstruction. While it had an appealing side and was pushed by southern whites, there was no
                    assurance it would woo them away from the Democratic party. Many Republicans would have agreed with
                    the viewpoint that Negro politicians were the "greatest rascals on earth and will do
                    anything for money," but they would have 
                  
                     7 William Perry to Harrison, Wallhalla, 
                                South Carolina
                            , April 2, 1889, Harrison Papers.
                  
                     8 Robert A. Hill to Harrison, 
                        Oxford, Mississippi
                     , December 18, 1888; Harrison Reed to Harrison, 
                                Florida
                            , December 4, 1888, Harrison Papers. E. North Cullom to John Sherman, Eola, 
                                Louisiana
                            , November 20, 1888; John H. Purnell to Sherman, 
                        Opelika, Alabama
                     , November 24, 1888; E. J. Sanford to Sherman, 
                                Tennessee
                            , November 19, 1888, John Sherman Papers, Library of Congress. For the
                            quotations see Reed to Harrison, Purnell to Sherman, and Sanford to Sherman,
                        respectively.
               
                     also agreed with William Pitt Kellogg, carpetbagger leader of 
                        Louisiana
                    , that the "President will find that without the colored voters there is no
                    Republican party in the South."9
            
            While others had much to say about Harrison's policy in the South, he refrained from making
                    any public statement on the subject for several months after his election; and when he did say
                    something, he appeared to be as flexible as the rumors themselves. In his letter accepting the
                    presidential nomination he repeated an old Republican theme when he declared that the
                    "right of every qualified elector to cast one free ballot and to have it honestly counted
                    must not be questioned. Every constitutional power should be used to make this right secure and
                    punish frauds upon the ballot." Shortly after his election he pointed out privately that he
                    could not yet make any public statement on the southern question. Then on New Year's Eve he
                    stated in public, "I would like to hear a bugle call throughout the land demanding a pure
                    ballot. A free ballot honestly expressed and fairly counted is the main safeguard of our
                    institutions, and its suppression under any circumstances cannot be tolerated."10
            
            Just a month before his inauguration Harrison informed a friend that he would have no southern policy
                    because of necessity his policy must be as national as a law. In his inaugural address Harrison
                    again insisted upon the freedom of the ballot as a condition of national life and emphasized the
                    necessity for the exercise of every power vested in Congress and the executive to secure that
                    freedom. He tempered his insistence by suggesting to the protectionists in the South that they might
                    make allies of the Negro through friendly instruction and co-operation. Six weeks after taking
                    office Harrison let it be known that he had been conscientiously studying political affairs of the
                    South and that he had no tendency to follow the beaten track.11
            
            
               
                  9 Republican Association of 
                     Harris
                            County, Texas
                  , to Harrison, 
                            Houston
                        , November 30, 1888; Frederick Speed to Harrison, 
                     Vicksburg, Mississippi
                  , December 8, 1888; James Humphries to Harrison,
                                
                     Augusta, Georgia
                  , January 15, 1889, Harrison Papers. Jackson
                            Clarion-Ledger, (
                     Jackson, Mississippi
                  ), November 29, 1888; 
                     
                                New York
                             Age, June 15, 1889. The first quotation is from Humphries to Harrison, the
                        second from 
                     
                                New York
                             Age, June 15, 1889.
               
                  10 The acceptance letter was reprinted in 
                     
                                New York
                             Age, September 15, 1888, and the New Year's Eve statement in ibid., January 26, 1889. See also Francis Purdie to Harrison,
                                
                     Montgomery, Alabama
                  , November 26, 1888, referring to Harrison's
                        letter of November 16, Harrison Papers.
               
                  11 H. C. Parson to Harrison, 
                            Washington, D.C.
                        , February 5, 1889, Harrison Papers; Congressional Record, 51st
                        Cong., 1st Sess., 3; James
            
            
            As he actually developed it, Harrison's southern policy had three main features: a reversion
                    to reconstruction tactics with the Force Bill of 1890, an attempt to resolve factional bickering
                    among southern Republicans, and an effort to win over certain elements in the South by supporting
                    legislation that favored them.
            His major effort to win back the South for the Republican party centered around the Force Bill of
                    1890. By supporting this measure he turned his back on Hayes' idea of conciliating southern
                    conservative Democrats, and he rejected the possibility of co-operating with any independent
                    movements such as those which had captivated Arthur. Thus Harrison scouted the likelihood of winning
                    additional Republican support in the South by accepting the elimination of the Negro as an important
                    political force. Why he returned to a policy which had alienated the white South and which had also
                    caused the Republicans to lose votes in the North deserves some explanation.
            Harrison had probably become convinced of the nearly impossible task of converting southern Democrats
                    to Republicanism. He had witnessed the failure of Hayes and Arthur to accomplish this aim, and he
                    had seen a steady diminution of Republican strength in the South in the face of policies aimed at
                    reversing such a trend. Like other Republican leaders in the North, he had reached the opinion that
                    enough Republican voters lived in the South to give the party some victories but that their vote had
                    either been suppressed or not counted. These strategists argued that the party should work to have
                    this vote counted instead of devising a policy to drum up Republican sentiment among southern
                    Democrats where it did not exist or could not be cultivated.
            The suppression of the voting privileges of southern Republicans, especially of the Negro, had become
                    a major concern to Harrison and other party leaders. By the use of extra-legal methods southern
                    Democrats had nullified the Fourteenth and Fifteenth amendments. As President, Harrison felt that he
                    had a solemn obligation to enforce the law of the land, and he believed that with an effective
                    federal elections law, fear and fraud could not prevent a voter from casting his ballot.12
            
            
               D. Richardson, A Compilation of the Messages and Papers of the Presidents
                        (11 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1897-1914), IX (1899), 5-14; Samuel Melton to E. W. Halford,
                                
                     Columbia, South
                                Carolina
                  , April 17, 1889, Harrison Papers; Halford was
                        Harrison's secretary.
               
                  12 Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents,
                        IX, 127-129.
            
            
            In its platform for 1888 the Republican party had demanded "effective legislation to secure
                    the integrity and purity of elections" and charged that the Democratic party in Congress
                    owed its existence to the suppression of the ballot by "a criminal nullification of the
                    Constitution and laws of the 
                        United States
                    ." Harrison had followed up this party declaration in his letter of acceptance
                    by insisting upon the freedom of the ballot and in his first annual message to Congress had called
                    for more complete control of congressional elections. This stand was a shift of sentiment on his
                    part, for he had spoken against federal intervention in 1886 when he sat in the Senate.13 In 1889 northern Republicans contended that the Negro could not vote in the
                    South because of his race and previous condition of servitude. This situation, they argued, violated
                    the Constitution and strengthened the Democratic party in the House and in the electoral college.
                    Not only did a southern Democrat hold his seat illegally, but his vote was two or three times as
                    effective in federal matters as that of a northern Republican. This was a national rather than a
                    local evil, because congressional elections were of national consequence. Since state action in the
                    South had done nothing to correct the abuse, it became the nation's business to do so.14
            
            With the Republicans in control of the presidency and the Congress, they had for the first time since
                    reconstruction the authority to enforce the Fourteenth and Fifteenth amendments. Harrison now stood
                    ready to remedy the condition of suppressed Republican voters in the South. When Congress convened
                    in December, 1889, Republicans introduced numerous bills which provided for the regulation of
                    national elections. Out of these came the principal measure which Henry Cabot Lodge introduced in
                    the House in March of 1890.15
            
            
               
                  13 The platform for 1888 is in Kirk H. Porter, National Party
                            Platforms (
                            New York
                        , 1924), 147; for the letter of acceptance, see 
                     
                                New York
                             Age, September 15, 1888. See also Richardson, Messages and
                            Papers of the Presidents, IX, 56; Congressional Record, 51st Cong.,
                        2d Sess., 8, and 49th Cong., 1st Sess., 1990.
               
                  14
                        Public Opinion (40 vols., 
                            Washington
                        . 1886-1906). VIII (October, 1889-April, 1890), 163, 164, 551-553, IX
                        (April-October, 1890), 309, 357, 383, 471; Thomas B. Reed, "Federal Control of
                        Elections." North American Review (248 vols., 
                            Boston
                         and 
                            New York
                        , 1815-1940), CL (January-June, 1890), 671-680; Allen T. Rice, "The Next
                        National Reforms," ibid., CXLVIII (1889), 82-85; George F. Hoar, Autobiography of Seventy Years (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1903), II, 150-165.
               
                  15
                        Congressional Record, 51st Cong., 1st Sess., 96, 100, 102, 110, 250, 254,
                        2285, 2325, 4063; the Force Bill is mentioned on p. 2285.
            
            
            The Force Bill,16 as it came to be known, proposed a chief supervisor for each
                    judical circuit of the country. It placed three supervisors, not more than two from any political
                    party, at every registration office and polling place where the elections law was in effect. They
                    were to observe and report on registration, to watch the reception of the votes, to participate in
                    the count, and to make their own returns. On the petition of one hundred citizens in an entire
                    congressional district or in a city of twenty thousand or more inhabitants, or on the petition of
                    fifty citizens in any section forming only a part of a congressional district, the law went into
                    effect. The circuit court appointed a board of canvassers of three men and charged it with the duty
                    of examining and returning the votes transmitted to it by the supervisors. If the certificate of the
                    board agreed with that of the state officials, the candidate holding both would become a member of
                    the House. If the two tallies differed, that of the board, on a majority decision, was prima facie
                    evidence of election. A contestant could appeal the board's decision to a circuit court;
                    and in the event of a reversal of opinion, the candidate certified by the court went to Congress.
            These were the main provisions. Additional ones dealt with the selection of juries and with
                    empowering the President to use the Army and Navy to enforce the law if necessary. A minority report
                    that accompanied the bill established the pattern for all arguments used against it in the House and
                    Senate. This report maintained that the proposal subjected the states to federal interference and
                    control, that it was unnecessary because state laws were adequate, and that it was unconstitutional;
                    furthermore, the bill projected the judiciary into the arena of politics, made the supervisors
                    instruments of party control, and cost too much.
            Democrats in the North and South immediately dubbed the measure the Force Bill and attacked it on
                    every possible ground. While numerous Republicans in the South favored the plan, approval was far
                    from unanimous. Objections arose from two sources. Some argued that instead of strengthening the
                    party, it would drive out the better elements and lose the independent vote. To this they added
                    arguments of racial animosity that southern Democrats used, and a few even deluded 
                  
                     16 House of Representatives Bill 11045, 51st Cong., 1st Sess.,
                            National Archives. The minority report was printed in House Reports, 51st
                            Cong., 1st Sess., No. 2493, Part 2 (serial no. 2814).
               
                     themselves that the Negro voted the Republican ticket solidly.
                    A northern Republican who had lived in 
                        Alabama
                     for twenty-five years called the Force Bill one of the greatest blunders of party
                    strategy. He thought it was "high time the Republican party was giving the Negro a rest.
                    Let him alone." But the majority of the Republicans in the South who opposed the measure
                    resisted it on the grounds that it did not go far enough.17
            
            Despite the vigorous opposition to the Force Bill in the House, Republican leadership under Speaker
                    Thomas B. Reed of 
                        Maine
                     pushed it through on July 2 by a vote of 155 to 149. Two Republicans voted squarely
                    against it, and six had absented themselves without pairs.18 In the Senate,
                    where it became involved in other issues which developed a division among Republicans, the measure
                    met a different fate. Because Harrison and other party leaders had talked much about safeguarding
                    the vote of the Negro, some senators like George F. Hoar of 
                        Massachusetts
                     and John Coit Spooner of 
                        Wisconsin
                     wished to see the party meet its obligations. But when Hoar reported the bill out in
                    the summer of 1890, the McKinley Tariff had come up for passing. This piece of legislation affected
                    practically all of the business interests in the country, among which were heavy contributors to the
                    Republican campaign fund in 1888 who expectantly awaited its enactment. Under Senator Arthur P.
                    Gorman of 
                        Maryland
                    , the Democrats filibustered any attempt to pass the Force Bill, which in turn blocked
                    any consideration of the McKinley Tariff. Senators Matthew S. Quay and Donald Cameron of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , very much interested in the quick and safe passage of the tariff bill, subordinated
                    the plight of the Negro to it. On August 12 Quay successfully moved to postpone consideration of the
                    Force Bill, pointing out that the McKinley Tariff was an "immediate necessity; the election
                    bill can wait."19
            
            
               
                  17
                        
                            Valley Virginian
                         (Staunton), quoted in the Nation (
                            New York
                        , 1865-), LI (July-December, 1890), 21; Hamilton G. Ewart, Congressional Record, 51st Cong., 1st Sess., 6688-6691. The quotation is from John H.
                        Purnell to William E. Chandler, 
                     Opelika, Alabama
                  , July 23, 1890, William E. Chandler
                        Papers, Library of Congress. See also L. M. Pleasant to Chandler, July 14, 1890, and W. A. Lemly
                        to Chandler, Winston, 
                            North Carolina
                        , July 15, 1890, William E. Chandler Papers, Philadelphia Press,
                        August 1, 1890.
               
                  18
                        Congressional Record, 51st Cong., 1st Sess., 6940-6941.
               
                  19
                        Ibid., 8466; Philadelphia Press, August 14, 1890.
            
            
            In his message to Congress in 1890, Harrison renewed his plea for the passage of the Force Bill,
                    which still awaited action in the Senate. He argued the need for such a law in all parts of the
                    country, because the restraints and penalties would be useful everywhere. For those who doubted its
                    effectiveness, Harrison pointed to the character of its opposition. For those who held the measure
                    to be unconstitutional, a new exercise of power, and an invasion of the rights of the states, he
                    referred to Supreme Court decisions affirming the validity of such legislation and to the
                    enforcement acts of 1870-1871 by which Congress had established certain practices for the election
                    of representatives. Harrison scouted the sectional nature of the bill, declaring that if it appeared
                    in such a light then "crime is local and not universal." Neither would the
                    proposed law revive race animosity. Instead it would provide the President with an opportunity to
                    remedy the inadequacies of the existing laws which attempted to secure to every citizen his
                    constitutional rights and privileges.20
            
            In the second session of the Fifty-first Congress the Democrats under the lead of Gorman again
                    organized delaying tactics to kill the Force Bill. On this occasion the Silver Republican senators
                    sided with them. Like Quay, they shelved their party's program for the South and reached an
                    accord with the Democratic leaders that subordinated the Force Bill to the silver measure with its
                    free coinage amendment. The coalition came about in January, 1891, when enough Democrats voted with
                    the rebellious Republicans to effect this change in the legislative calendar. From then on no chance
                    remained to pass the Force Bill, and its Republican supporters made few efforts to revive it in the
                    following days of the session.21
            
            
               
                  20
                        Congressional Record, 51st Cong., 2d Sess., 8; Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents, IX, 127-129.
               
                        
                     21 Fred A. Wellborn, "The Influence of the Silver-Republican
                            Senators, 1889-1891," 
                        Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review (
                        Cedar Rapids,
                                    Iowa
                     , 1914-), XIV (1927-1928),
                            462-480. Congressional Record, 51st Cong., 2d Sess., 912.
                        The defeat of the Force Bill marked the third major abandonment of the Negro by the
                            Republican party in the post-reconstruction years. Hayes had abandoned the Negro when he
                            removed the troops because he hoped this policy would reconcile North and South, conciliate
                            southern whites, and ingratiate the Republican party with them. Arthur had abandoned the
                            Negro when he chose to work with the Independent Democrats in the South because he believed
                            this course would allow him to break up the Democratic South. See Vincent P. DeSantis, 
                    
            
            
            The Force Bill had caused considerable alarm in the South and probably did much to lessen Republican
                    appeals to Southern Democrats. Southern newspapers raised the specter of another reconstruction and
                    of Negro supremacy, and the practical effect of the bill was that the whites closed ranks and
                    opposed any type of federal intervention. This is what the Republicans had worked since 1877 to
                    prevent. Yet Harrison and others had thought the Force Bill was worth the gamble, for had it passed
                    it would have controlled elections effectively and might have piled up some Republican majorities in
                    the South.
            Harrison also worked to destroy the factionalism that had been the bane of southern Republicanism
                    since 1865. His plan called for placating every major Republican group in the South, but many
                    Republicans who felt that the President rewarded them solely because of their participation in an
                    interparty fight intensified their struggles. Another factor that weakened Harrison's
                    efforts was his alignment with erstwhile carpetbagger leaders in the South. In 
                  Florida, Arkansas,
                            Louisiana
               , and 
                        Georgia
                     he relied almost entirely upon the advice of Harrison Reed, Powell Clayton, Henry C.
                    Warmoth, and A. E. Buck in patronage and party matters.
            Buck and Clayton headed the Republican state committees in 
                        Georgia
                     and 
                        Arkansas
                     and, despite the vigorous efforts of native whites to discredit and oust them,
                    ingratiated themselves with Harrison, from whom they received every assistance. Buck proved to be
                    such a favorite of Harrison that he was able to turn aside Senator Nelson W. Aldrich's
                    interference with patronage matters in 
                        Georgia
                     and to secure for himself the post of 
                        United States
                     marshal for the southern district of his state. While the lament of Georgia Republicans
                    that Buck "is an absolute calamity, from which we pray the 
                  
                            "President Arthur and the Independent Movements in the South in 1882,"
                                    Journal of Southern History. (
                                    Baton Rouge
                                , 1935-), XIX (1953), 346-363. In 1890 the Republicans abandoned the Negro
                                because they had a greater interest in a high tariff and a silver measure and because
                                the northeastern leadership of the party feared that a revival of reconstruction tactics
                                would disturb the community of business interests that had developed between North and
                                South since 1877. Senator Cameron clearly expressed this attitude when he told a
                                correspondent of the 
                           
                                        Boston
                                     Transcript in December, 1890, "I will vote against the
                                election bill, whatever form it may assume. … Northern capital has been
                                flowing into the South … and a community of commercial interests …
                                will finally result. … The election law would disturb this desirable
                                condition." Public Opinion, X (October, 1890-April, 1891),
                                269.
                        
               
                good Lord to deliver us" fell upon empty ears
                    in 
                        Washington
                    , it had its repercussions in the state.22
            
            Powell Clayton had developed an unsavory reputation by reason of his notorious activities during
                    reconstruction. Yet James S. Clarkson, vice-chairman of the Republican National Committee and
                    patronage dispenser for Harrison, admitted that in 
                        Arkansas
                     all patronage matters had to be cleared with Clayton. In fact Harrison took
                    Clayton's advice so frequently that the former carpetbagger once told the President,
                    "I have received from you a degree of consideration I had no right to expect."
                    When some of Clayton's foes tried to break his influence with the administration, Clarkson
                    advised Harrison, "I should look with distrust on anyone who would seek to lessen the
                    party's confidence in Gen. Clayton and the other Republican leaders who have long made such
                    a great and courageous fight… in 
                        Arkansas
                    ." And when Clayton's opponents moved to keep him off the Republican
                    National Committee, an intimate of Harrison advised against it in strong terms, saying in part,
                    "I should not allow anybody to keep me from putting Powell Clayton on the Committee, merely
                    because he was a reconstruction governor… to refuse to appoint him, merely because some
                    Democrat will say something about Reconstruction times, is equivalent to slapping him in the face
                    without excuse. We must remember that we are not organizing a Sunday School convention, or a
                    prohibition meeting, but are preparing ourselves for an attack upon the devil. In a warfare of this
                    kind, a good long club is more effective than a sprinkle of Eau-de-Cologne."23
            
            In 
                        Louisiana
                     Warmoth emerged as the official party head out of a great Republican feud that took
                    place between 
                  
                     22 Petition to Harrison, December 12, 1888; A. E. Buck to Harrison,
                                    
                        Atlanta, Georgia
                     , December 20, 1888, and November 1, 1889; Nelson W.
                            Aldrich to Harrison, 
                                Rhode Island
                            , May 16, 1890; David N. Freeman to Harrison, 
                        Atlanta, Georgia
                     , August 30,
                            1889; Rufus Bullock to E. W. Halford, 
                        Atlanta, Georgia
                     , May 6 and July
                            5, 1890; these letters are in the Harrison Papers. Madison Bell to John Sherman,
                                    
                        Atlanta, Georgia
                     , January 22, 1889, Sherman Papers; Augusta
                                Evening News, June 27 and July 1, 1890. The quotation is from Freeman to Harrison.
                  
                     23 James S. Clarkson to E. W. Halford, August 23, 1889; Clark-son to
                            Harrison, August 23, 1889; Powell Clayton to Harrison Eureka Springs, 
                                Arkansas
                            , August 20 and 25, 1889, July 10, 1890, and February 19, 1892 (the quotation is
                            from the letter of July 10, 1890); Harrison to Powell Clayton, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , February 15, 1892. The quotation from Clarkson is from his letter to Harrison,
                            January 8, 1889. The last quotation is from Louis T. Michner's letter to E. W.
                            Halford, July 1, 1892, These letters are in the Harrison Papers.
               
                     1888 and 1890. In 1888 H. Dudley Coleman, former Confederate
                    and president of the 
                        New Orleans
                     Chamber of Commerce, was elected to Congress on a ticket supported by the Republican
                    and United Labor parties. Coleman hoped to build up in 
                        Louisiana
                     a "Respectable White Man's Republican Party, at the same time giving
                    to the colored man a fair proportion of patronage according to his qualifications." Coleman
                    had the confidence and good will of the "better classes" of Negroes, and he
                    desired to establish himself with the Harrison administration as firmly and as early as possible.
                    William Pitt Kellogg, the carpetbagger, and P. F. Herwig, native white Republican state chairman,
                    had aligned themselves against Coleman. But as another native white Republican leader in the state
                    pointed out to the President, each faction did not seek to strengthen the party "but simply
                    to thrive by mendicancy upon your official alms and starve out the other." At first Warmoth
                    supported Coleman but later serious difficulties arose between the two, and each went his own way.
                    Unable to resolve the factional fight in 
                        Louisiana
                     even though he had asked the principals to reach an agreement, Harrison threw his
                    support to Warmoth, worked through him as the head of the party, and even consulted him on patronage
                    matters in 
                        Mississippi
                    .24
            
            In Florida Harrison joined hands with Harrison Reed, the former carpetbagger governor. The President
                    named Reed postmaster at 
                        Tallahassee
                     and then proceeded to take his advice on other patronage matters in the state.25
            
            Harrison had numerous and vexatious Republican problems elsewhere in the South that severely tested
                    his ability to 
                  
                     24 H. Dudley Coleman to George Selden, 
                                Erie
                                Pennsylvania
                            , November 13, 1888; Coleman to Hugh H. Hanna, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , November 27, 1888; Henry C. Warmoth to Harrison, Lawrence P.O., 
                                Louisiana
                            , November 30, 1888, May 22, 1889, November 8, 1890, and March 7, 1891; J. R. G.
                            Pitkin to Harrison, 
                                New Orleans
                            , May 25 and June 19, 1889; P. F. Herwig to Harrison, August 15, 1889, and
                            January 7, 1890; R. B. Baquie to Harrison, June [n.d.], 1890; John W. Noble to E. W.
                            Halford, March 5, 1880 (Noble was Secretary of the Interior); John C. Minor to Harrison,
                            n.d. (Minor was editor of the 
                        
                                    New Orleans
                                 Pelican); Harrison to Warmoth, 
                                Washington, D. C.
                            , May 21, 1889;these letters are in the Harrison Papers. A. D. Jenks to William
                            E. Chandler, 
                                New Orleans
                            , January 1 and 9, 1890, William E. Chandler Papers. New Orleans
                                Weekly Pelican, March 23 and April 20, 1889.
                  
                     25 John Wanamaker to E. W. Halford, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , May 2, 1890; Harrison Reed to Halford, Tallahasee, 
                                Florida
                            , May 19, 1890;George B. Lord to Halford, 
                                New York
                            , May 5, 1890 (Lord was editor of Home and Country); these
                            letters are in the Harrison Papers, Pensacola News, April 26, 1890:
               
                     end factional feuds. Confronted by a struggle between
                    "independent" and "regular" Republicans in 
                        South Carolina
                    , Harrison resorted to a familiar scheme. He attempted to hold the Negro vote in line by
                    making Robert Smalls, the Negro leader in the state, collector of the port at Beaufort and by
                    consulting him on other patronage matters. He also worked to exploit whatever protectionist sympathy
                    existed in the state in his efforts to build up "a new Republican party… led by
                    white protectionists regardless of former party affiliation."26
            
            In 
                        Alabama
                     some white Republicans had organized a White Republican Protective Tariff League early
                    in 1889. The founders maintained they had set up the league for the purpose of bringing into the
                    Republican party an element of "good whites" who favored a free ballot and a fair
                    count and who would risk all hazards to obtain them; but Negroes in the state declared the league
                    favored the elimination of the colored voter from politics in 
                        Alabama
                    . Harrison supported both factions and handed out patronage to both. the league element
                    and to the Negroes.27
            
            William Mahone, who had always had to fight Republican leaders in 
                        Virginia
                     after Arthur came to his aid, had even rougher going after his state ticket lost in
                    1885 and he left the Senate in 1887. V. D. Groner, president of the National Compress Association
                    and state Republican chairman in 
                        Virginia
                    , emerged as Mahone's chief opponent for control of the patronage during
                    Harrison's administration. Two national Republican leaders, John Sherman and James S.
                    Clarkson, pleaded Mahone's cause with the President. They urged either a place on the
                    Interstate Commerce Commission 
                  
                     26 L. Edwin Dudley to Harrison, 
                        Boston, Massachusetts
                     , May 28, 1889; William Claflin, William H. Dupree, and
                            Julius C. Chappelle to Harrison, 
                                Boston
                            , June 21, 1889; Ellery M. Brayton to Harrison, 
                        Columbia, South
                                Carolina
                     , February 27, 1890; William W. Dudley to Harrison, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , March 12, 1889; John Ostendorff to Harrison, 
                        Charleston, South
                                Carolina
                     , May 14, 1889; William H. H. Miller to Harrison, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                             June 21, 1889 (Miller was Attorney General of the 
                                United States
                            ); L. Edwin Dudley to E. W. Halford, 
                        Boston, Massachusetts
                     ,
                            March 20, 1890; these letters are from the Harrison Papers. Huntsville
                            Gazette, April 27, 1889.
                  
                     27 A. A. Garner and J. W. Thomason to Harrison, 
                        Montgomery, Alabama
                     , May 8, 1889; D. B. Booth to Harrison, 
                        Mobile, Alabama
                     , June 9, 1890; Negro Republican State Conference to Harrison,
                                    
                        Birmingham, Alabama
                     , April [n.d.], 1889; Robert A. Moseley to
                            Harrison, June 5, 1890; these letters are from the Harrison Papers. Moseley to William E.
                            Chandler, 
                        Montgomery, Alabama
                     , June 21, 1890, William E. Chandler Papers.
                                Huntsville Gazette, June 8 and August 24, 1889.
               
                     or the International Railway Commission for the Virginian.
                    Sherman reminded Harrison, "You know the important services he rendered to the Republican
                    party while he was a member of the Senate. He is now and will be the leader of the Republicans in 
                        Virginia
                     and there are strong political reasons why his fidelity should be rewarded with some
                    such recognition." Clarkson urged a settlement of the factional dispute in 
                        Virginia
                     in such a way that would permit Mahone to come back to the Senate.28 Harrison steered a middle course again. He invited both groups to 
                        Washington
                     to tell them of his great concern about the 
                        Virginia
                     matter and to inform them that he was as anxious to see one element protected in its
                    self-respect as the other. Clarkson induced both sides to sign a statement whereby they agreed to
                    submit their quarrel to the national committee for arbitration and settlement.29
            
            But Harrison wound up by antagonizing both elements and even some of the national leaders. Mahone
                    went about openly denouncing the President, and the anti-Mahone press in the state charged that the
                    administration through its ties with Mahone had "not only humiliated and disintegrated the
                    Republican party in 
                        Virginia
                    ," but had brought the "administration into disrepute and paralyzed
                    the Republican party of the country." The 
                  
                            New York
                         Times thought, "It is plain, beyond dispute, that the President,
                    through Mahone, is engaged in organizing a white protectionist Republican Party in the South, in
                    which the share of the negro shall be confined to casting his vote." On the other hand,
                    Quay and Clarkson who had been working with Mahone to round up southern delegates at the 1892
                    national convention felt that Harrison had committed a political blunder by not supporting
                        Mahone.30
            
            Not only did factional fights beset Harrison as he struggled to rejuvenate his party in the South,
                    but the Negro problem also came home to roost. The President now had an opportunity to discover what
                    all other Republican leaders had 
                  
                     28 John Sherman to Harrison September 27, 1890, and December 7, 1891;
                            James S. Clarkson to Harrison, July 13, 1889, Harrison Papers.
                  
                     29 V. D. Groner to E. W. Halford, 
                        Norfolk, Virginia
                     ,
                            June 4, 1889; Richard A. Wise to Harrison, June 5, 1889; James S. Clarkson to Harrison, June
                            29 and July 13, 1889, Harrison Papers.
                  
                     30 J. D. Brady to E. W. Halford, 
                        Petersburg, Virginia
                     , February 4 and March 26, 1891, Harrison Papers. 
                        Staunton Valley Virginian, quoted in 
                                Harrisonburg
                             State Republican (
                        Harrisonburg,
                                    Virginia
                     ), May 22, 1890; 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Age, July 20, 1889; 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Times, September 19, 1889. See also the 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Tames for May 30, June 17, and September 20, 1889.
               
                     found out: there was no easy and simple solution to the
                    problem. Politics, tradition, and public promises complicated the matter. In a speech he had made on
                    the Senate floor in the spring of 1886 Harrison had declared, "I am one of those who feel
                    that the colored race in the South since the War has been subjected to indignities, cruelties,
                    outrages, and a repression of rights such as find no parallel in the history of
                        civilization."31 Speaking before the 
                        Michigan
                     Club in 
                        Detroit
                     a few months before he received the Republican presidential nomination in 1888,
                    Harrison decried the fact that the Negro Republican vote of the South had been deprived of all
                    effective influence in the administration of the government. He demanded that "a free
                    ballot shall not be denied to Republicans in these States where rebels have been rehabilitated with
                    a full citizenship."32 He did favor the Force Bill and did urge it upon
                    Congress, but it made no headway in the Senate, where it became subordinated to other issues;
                    nevertheless, Negroes held Harrison as much accountable for the failure to secure the passage of
                    this bill as they would have applauded him had it gone through.
            Above everything else Negro Republicans wanted patronage, for in their eyes this was the mark of
                    favor and recognition from the administration. But the Negro press was divided over
                    Harrison's intentions. According to the 
                  
                            Cleveland
                         Gazette, the President promised every visiting Negro delegation that he would
                    outdo his predecessors in giving them patronage. The 
                  
                            New York
                         Age related two incidents that seemed to contradict one another. A delegation
                    of Negroes from 
                        Louisiana
                     called upon the President to protest against his, policy of giving the leading federal
                    offices in their states to Democrats or "crawfishing" Republicans. Harrison told
                    the delegation, in so many words, to go home and attend to its own business, which reminded the Age of Garfield's advice to the Negro to obtain
                    "Webster's Blue Black spelling book." Then in another alleged interview
                    with a southern delegation, Harrison proposed to appoint Negroes to minor places in deference to the
                    feelings of southerners. Through his secretary Harrison branded this latter statement as false and
                        
                  
                     31
                            New Orleans Weekly Pelican, December 1, 1888,
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., December 8, 1888.
               
                     alluded to the appointments he had already made as an answer to
                    such charges.33
            
            While Harrison made a number of Negro appointments, he continued the traditional Republican policy of
                    rewarding a few Negro leaders as a means of recognizing the entire race. Names like Blanche K.
                    Bruce, Robert Smalls, Frederick Douglass, John R. Lynch, and their friends which had appeared on
                    Hayes' appointment list reappeared on Harrison's. But some of Harrison's
                    Negro appointments reflect a change of policy. In 
                        Louisiana
                     he passed over old Negro leaders like P.B.S. Pinchback and began to recognize the
                    merits of the younger men who had grown up since the war. In this state he chose John Francis Patty
                    and Charles B. Wilson for the posts of naval officer at 
                        New Orleans
                     and surveyor general of 
                        Louisiana
                    . Both Wilson and Patty were young men, the latter but thirty-four years old. Harrison
                    had taken a new departure, and the Negro press viewed it as such.34
            
            Harrison also attempted to give Negroes postmasterships in some of the large southern cities. He
                    named W. O. Crum, a doctor, for postmaster at 
                        Charleston
                     but withdrew his nomination when too much Senate opposition developed. Supposedly Crum
                    was not competent enough, although the Negro insisted that the objections were raised because of his
                    race. The President kept James Hill's name before the Senate for postmaster at 
                        Vicksburg
                     until that body refused to confirm the 
                        Mississippi
                     Negro leader. Harrison also gave an important post to N. Wright Cuney, Negro Republican
                    national committeeman from 
                        Texas
                    , when he made him collector of the port at 
                        Galveston
                    .35
            
            
               
                  33
                        
                     
                                Cleveland
                             Gazette, October 18, 1889; 
                     
                                New York
                             Age, April 13, 1889, and July 6, 1892.
               
                  34
                        
                     
                                Cleveland
                             Gazette, August 31, October 12 and 19, 1889; 
                     
                                New York
                             Age, July 6, 1589, February 8 and March 22, 1890; 
                     
                                Washington
                             Bee, June 15, July 6, December 14, 1889, March 15 and July 26, 1890, July
                        23 and August 13, 1892; Huntsville Gazette, May 25, June 8, and September 21.
                        1889, February 8, 1890, and March 14, 1891; J. M. Townsend to E. W. Halford, Indiana, July 13,
                        1889, Harmon Papers; American Citizen (
                     Kansas City, Kansas
                  ),
                        September 25, 1896.
               
                        
                     35
                            
                        
                                    Washington
                                 Bee, July 23 and August 13, 1892; 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Age, July 27, 1889; Charleston News and Courier,
                            July 6, 8, 15, October 15, 1892.
                        The Cuney appointment provides an interesting commentary on Harrison's dealing with
                            the Negro. Cuney had been under consideration for some time for this position. He was the
                            boss of the Republican party in 
                                Texas
                            , but he was also a Negro and was seeking a very important patronage job in the
                            South. The appointment dragged on. Cuney went to 
                                Washington
                             to see about it. Senator William B. Allison of 
                                Iowa
                             took him around to see Secretary of the Treasury
                    
            
            
            At the outset of his administration Harrison's policy in the South was criticized severely
                    by the Negro, especially by T. Thomas Fortune, editor of the 
                  
                            New York
                         Age. Fortune asked Harrison to carry out the party's pledges in the
                    campaign of 1888 concerning the South. He asked the President to avoid Hayes' policy of
                    "conciliating, bowing and scraping, and apologizing and supplicating the white men of the
                    South." He demanded that Harrison consult with Negro leaders and remove every southern
                    Democrat from office. As time went by Fortune accused Harrison of surpassing all "former
                    Republican Presidents … in ignoring the advice and claims of colored leaders."
                    Fortune's fury mounted when Harrison vacillated between the white and the Negro factions in 
                        Alabama
                    , and he charged the President with attempting to ride "the pale horse of the
                    white league and the dark horse of colored Republicanism."36
            
            But Fortune's attitude changed when Harrison gave office to a number of Negro leaders. Then
                    he ceased his attacks on the President and exclaimed, "Let the good work proceed. Turn the
                    Southern Democratic rascals out." Harrison's policy continued to please Fortune,
                    for when the President was renominated in 1892, the Negro leader congratulated him and pledged his
                    enthusiastic support.37 Other Negro leaders 
                  
                            William Windom, who would have to make the recommendation to Harrison, but Windom
                                reportedly informed Allison that the Treasury Department had adopted a rule not to name
                                any Negro to office. Then Cuney called upon Clarkson, vice-chairman of the Republican
                                National Committee, and together they went to the White House, where they found the
                                President with Windom signing appointments for the treasury. Clarkson gained admittance
                                just after Harrison had signed the appointment for the collectorship at 
                                    Galveston
                                . He held it out to Clarkson and asked, "That is right, is it not
                                and as was finally decided upon, isn't it." Clarkson answered,
                                "No, Mr. President, that is not the right name. In conferences some of us had
                                with you, with some people from 
                                    Texas
                                 with us, You decided to appoint Mr. Wright Cuney to this place."
                                Harrison got up, walked around with the commission in his hand and replied, "I
                                remember now, but the Department has for some time been advising differently and has
                                caused me to change my mind." Then he asked Clarkson, "If you were
                                President would you give the most important position in 
                                    Texas
                                 and one of the most important in the whole South, to a Negro?" Not
                                hesitating, Clarkson answered, "Yes, and be glad of the chance."
                                Harrison scratched out the name he had written in and wrote in Cuney's. Then he
                                turned to Clarkson, "You are right and I am glad you called my attention to the
                                matter in time." Maud Cuney Hare, Norris Wright Cuney, A Tribune
                                    of the Black People (
                                    New York
                                , 1913), 120-122. Huntsville Gazette, April 13, 1889; New Orleans Weekly Pelican, April 13, 1889.
                        
                  
                     36
                            
                        
                                    New York
                                 Age, March 30, May 4, June 22, 1889.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., July 27, 1889, for the quotation; T. Thomas Fortune to Harrison,
                            June 10, 1892, Harrison Papers.
               
                     also changed their idea about Harrison as more Negro
                    appointments were made. The Huntsville Gazette, which had at first raised doubts
                    about Harrison's friendship for the Negro, praised him when its editor, Charles Hendley,
                    received a federal post in 
                        Alabama
                    . The 
                  
                            Washington
                         Bee also experienced a change. Critical at the outset, the Bee began to praise Harrison as the President who made more Negro appointments than any other
                    chief executive and wound up by appealing to Negroes to love and to remain in the Republican party
                    and to despise the Democratic party. The Bee called Harrison "an honest
                    man believing in honest elections and in honest money," and told Negroes it would be easier
                    for them to eat soup with a fork than to justify their conscience while voting Democratic.38
            
            While disappointed Negroes accused Harrison of failing to give them recognition and of attempting to
                    build a white party in the South, many other colored Republicans joined with Fortune, the Bee, and the Gazette in supporting the President. The Negro World claimed that Harrison was working for the interests of the Negro. Bruce and
                    Lynch, the Negro leaders from 
                        Mississippi
                    , approved Harrison's dealing with Negroes and labeled the hue and cry over the
                    administration's backwardness in recognizing the Negro as a Democratic device. Both
                    expressed the utmost confidence in the President's policy toward the Negro. The Matthew
                    Stanley Quay Club of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , a Negro Republican organization, pledged its support to Harrison in his attempt for
                    re-election in 1892, and when John M. Langston in a speech in 
                        Chicago
                     predicted that Negroes would not support Harrison, the Bee made it
                    clear that Langston spoke for himself and not for the Negro voters. Frederick Douglass in a speech
                    at 
                  Thomasville, Georgia
               , defended some of Harrison's Democratic and white
                    appointments in the South on the ground that the President's only object in distributing
                    the public patronage was fitness for the place, regardless of race or politics.39 A northern 
                  
                     38
                            Huntsville Gazette, January 19, April 27, May 25, June 8, 1889; 
                        
                                    Washington
                                 Bee, August 17 and November 2, 1889; May 3, June 21, November 1, 1890;
                            July 9 and 16, 1892. The quotation is from the issue of July 16, 1892.
                  
                     39
                            
                        
                                    Cleveland
                                 Gazette, November 23, 1889; A. W. Shaffer to E. W. Halford,
                                    
                        Raleigh, North
                                    Carolina
                     , February 15, 1890, Harrison Papers; Huntsville Gazette, June 29 and October 12, 1889; 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Age, April 27 and May 4, 1889; James R. Junior to Harrison,
                                    
                        Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
                     , June 13, 1892, Harrison Papers (Junior
                            was president of the club); 
                        
                                    Washington
                                 Bee, July 2, 1890.
               
                     Negro, in objecting to Harrison's giving patronage to
                    southern Negroes who could not contribute any electoral votes, raised a vital question that had been
                    carefully weighed by all northern Republican leaders since 1877. Some southern Negroes even urged
                    Harrison to appoint white Republicans and conservative Democrats to the chief offices and to give
                    the minor posts to the Negro, for there was "no danger of the Negro race siding with the
                    Democratic party for we know they mean nothing good for us."40
            
            Harrison also tried to win over dissatisfied Democrats in the South with favorable legislation. He
                    favored the McKinley Tariff, which benefited some industries in the South, which had provisions
                    appealing to farmers, and which held out some favors to the sugar cane growers in Lousiana. The
                    President also supported the Blair Educational Bill in an effort to placate any discontented Negroes
                    in the South.
            The Blair Bill provided for a sum of money varying from $75,000,000 to
                    $100,000,000 to be distributed over a period of from eight to twelve years to states on
                    the basis of illiteracy. Since the southern states, with large Negro populations, had the greatest
                    number of illiterates, they were in a position to receive the bulk of these funds. Advocates of the
                    measure emphasized the danger of a large number of illiterates to a republican form of government,
                    the inability of the South to cope with Negro illiteracy, and the responsibility of the government
                    to the Negro in preparing him for citizenship.41 Opponents of the Blair Bill
                    called it unconstitutional, 
                  
                     40 J. S. Fassett to Harrison, 
                        Elmira, New York
                     ,
                            January 5, 1892; the quotation is from L. H. Brown to Harrison, Montezuma, 
                                Georgia
                            , February 11, 1889 (Brown was principal of Negro Public School). Both letters
                            are from the Harrison Papers.
                  
                     41 Behind the urgency of the Harrison administration to distribute
                            educational funds was the surplus in the treasury that menaced the high protective tariff
                            which the Republicans considered essential in the continuing prosperity of the country.
                            Between 1866 and 1890 a surplus had been built up because Congress had been slow to repeal
                            the internal revenue taxes of the Civil War and because it imposed high duties in a series
                            of post-war tariffs. In the eighties the disposal of this surplus became a pressing problem,
                            for a surplus matched a deficit in being an uncomfortable phenomenon in public finance and
                            politics. It embarrassed those who favored a high tariff because a surplus indicated
                            excessive rates and tempted to extravagant appropriations. Obviously if the surplus
                            continued, the tariff would have to be reduced, for it constituted then the chief source of
                            income. The simplest way of all to reduce the surplus, and politically the most
                            satisfactory, had been to pension Civil War veterans. But the Blair Bill presented an
                            opportunity to the Republican party to hold the Negro in line, to dispose of part of the
                            surplus, and to retain the high tariff rates.
               
                     emphasized the unfairness of making the North pay for southern
                    schools, and predicted that federal aid to the states would humiliate and destroy local initiative.
                    But the fear that the federal interference with states' rights would undermine white
                    supremacy, along with antitariff sentiments, lay behind the hesitancy of southern Democrats to
                    accept funds.
            The Blair Bill had passed the Senate in 1884, 1886, and 1888, but it never gained enough strength to
                    reach a vote in the House. Despite the numerous setbacks the measure had received in the House,
                    Senator Henry W. Blair, the author, introduced it again in 1889. Harrison supported it, but on this
                    occasion the bill was defeated in the Senate and never went on to the House.42
                    The failure of a Republican-controlled Congress to pass the Blair Bill and the Force Bill aroused
                    Negro resentment, for as the 
                  
                            New York
                         Age pointed out, Harrison's failure must count against the
                    administration "as much as their enactment would have counted in its favor.43
            
            The McKinley Tariff of 1890 had some novel features which the Republican leaders hoped would attract
                    support for the party in the South.44 Its complete schedule of protective duties
                    on agricultural products aimed at mitigating one of the chief grievances of farmers, in the South as
                    well as in the West. By including duties on agricultural products, politicians sought to refute the
                    charge that farmers sold on an unprotected market while they bought on a protected market.
                    Alliancemen in the South, disappointed in their efforts to win control of the Democratic party in
                    their states, might be persuaded to join the Republican party if the proper inducements could be
                    made.
            The repeal of the sugar duty constituted another novel feature of the McKinley Tariff. At the time
                    receipts from this duty, which was primarily a revenue measure, constituted the most important
                    single item in the income from customs 
                  
                     42 For provisions of the Blair Bill, see Congressional
                                Record, 47th Cong., 1st Sess., 4833, and 51st Cong., 1st Sess., 771-773. Its
                            history in the Senate after its reintroduction in 1889 can be traced in Congressional Record, 51st Cong., 1st Sess., 100, 124, 773, 774, 1067-1075,
                            1084-1102, 1386, 1546, 1721, 2146-2147, 6338. See also Senate Reports,
                            51st Cong., 1st Sess., No. 13 (serial no. 2703). An article signed by Harrison in the 
                        
                                    New York
                                 World, September 12, 1888, strongly supported the Blair Bill.
                  
                     43
                            
                        
                                    New York
                                 Age, May 16, 1891.
                  
                     44 Frank W. Taussig, The Tariff History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (8th ed.; 
                                New York
                            , 1931), 274-279; Edward Stanwood, American Tariff Controversies in
                                the Nineteenth Century (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                             and 
                                New York
                            , 1903), II, 264-267.
               
                     because Americans imported 90 per cent of the sugar they used;
                    the other 10 per cent came almost exclusively from the sugar cane districts of 
                        Louisiana
                    , where the effects of a protective duty could be felt. The situation embarrassed the
                    Republican party in 1890 because of the surplus in the treasury. Remission of the duty was a bid for
                    popular support, for in effect repeal gave consumers a reduction of one-third the price as well as
                    relief from heavy taxation upon the only important article of food taxed at all.
            The McKinley Tariff admitted all raw sugar free but retained the duty of one-half cent per pound on
                    refined sugar to protect domestic sugar refiners; this stipulation aided the Sugar Trust, which
                    controlled practically all of the sugar refining production in the country. Democrats in Congress
                    from the sugar cane districts of 
                        Louisiana
                     attempted unsuccessfully to restore sugar to the dutiable list. Then Republican leaders
                    sought to alleviate the fears of the Louisiana Democrats by including a bounty for the domestic
                    sugar producers at the rate of the former duty, two cents a pound.45 The
                    Harrison administration hoped that this strategy would gain support for the Republicans among the
                    Democrats in the sugar cane districts of 
                        Louisiana
                     who might look upon the bounty either as a special favor or as a means of protection.
            Oddly enough, the strategy backfired. 
                        Louisiana
                     members in the House and Senate opposed the bounty provision and attempted to restore
                    the duty on sugar. The stand put them in the position of opposing protection except for duties on
                    sugar. Senator James B. Eustis of 
                        Louisiana
                     argued well against the bounty when he asked why, if the administration had discovered
                    that the expansion of the sugar industry in the 
                        United States
                     no longer deserved the favoritism of the government, it proposed to give a bounty to
                    sugar planters. Why, asked Eustis, if a decline had set in the sugar industry under a high
                    protective tariff, as supporters of the bill maintained, did the administration propose to donate
                    two cents a pound to everyone in the country who produced sugar.46
            
            The answer, of course, was politics. The administration had hoped to win support from the country by
                    the removal 
                  
                     45 Taussig, Tariff History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 276-277; Stanwood, American Tariff Controversies,
                            II, 268.
                  
                     46 Stanwood, American Tariff Controversies, II,
                            268-270.
               
                     of the sugar duty, but it also desired to gain the good will of
                    the sugar planters in 
                        Louisiana
                     who would be affected adversely by such action. For this reason Republican leaders
                    sought to compensate them for their loss. The Republican leader also hoped that this policy would
                    prove to the protectionists in the South that the Republican party was their friend and would look
                    after their interests in the same way it watched over the interests of the northeastern business
                    community.
            Harrison had had a busy time trying to recapture the South for the Republican party, and he had
                    employed a variety of tactics in the hope that any one or a combination of them would produce the
                    new and vigorous Republican party in the South for which the national leaders had yearned for nearly
                    two decades. The Force Bill aimed to have every Republican in the South register and vote, so that a
                    vast Negro Republican vote would not be lost. Had this happened, a political realignment or a
                    political revolution might have occurred. But when Congress failed to pass this legislation it
                    weakened considerably Harrison's effort to get out the Republican vote in the South.
            Harrison also failed to make any headway in his attempts to have the party in the South stop its
                    internal quarrels and start fighting the Democrats. For as many Republicans as he placated he
                    antagonized an equal number, so that factionalism remained to vex Republican Presidents. While
                    Harrison revived the fear of Negro supremacy among southern whites through his public statements on
                    the suppression of the ballot in their states and by his support of the Force Bill, he tried to win
                    them over to the Republican side by tempting their Democratic loyalties through favorable
                    legislation. He straddled the silver issue in a vain effort to gain the allegiance of Silver
                    Democrats in the South, who had begun to fight the northeastern leadership of the party on this
                    matter. The Republican leadership had inserted a schedule for agricultural products in the McKinley
                    Tariff in a maneuver to bring back the small farmers in the South and elsewhere to the Republican
                    fold. By 1890 most of the small farmers in the South had joined the Alliance and some of them felt
                    prepared to leave the Democratic party if they could not control it. But they still hung back from
                    organizing a third party, as Alliancemen had done in the West, and  Republicans hoped that if they bolted they would come over to the
                    G.O.P. Likewise the bounty on sugar was a concession to Democrats in the sugar cane area of 
                        Louisiana
                     in the hope of stirring up sentiment for the Republican party in these districts that
                    sought protection for their sugar.
            But by 1892 the Republican party had still failed to win over the southern white support that it
                    needed if it ever intended to develop a two-party South. On top of this its Negro support had
                    dwindled almost to the vanishing point in some areas. The Republican party in the South, despite the
                    series of efforts and changing tactics to resurrect it and to rebuild it, faced a greater problem of
                    rejuvenation than it confronted when Hayes recalled the troops.
         
         
         
            
               
                        New Albany
                     Within the Shadow of 
                        Louisville
                    
            
            
                    Victor M. Bogle
                    *
                
            Nineteenth century promoters of 
                        New Albany
                     exhibited considerable ingenuity in deriding the pretensions and countering the claims
                    of 
                  Madison, Evansville, Indianapolis
               , and
                    other rival towns within the state. Yet all the while they were aware that 
                        New Albany
                    's true rival, the one standing as a colossus before their designs, was their
                    cross-river neighbor, 
                        Louisville
                    .1 From the beginning the odds were very much in favor of the 
                        Kentucky
                     city. In fact, so overwhelming was 
                        Louisville
                    's relative situation that some hundred years later it is a little difficult to
                    see how and why the 
                        New Albany
                     promoters ever believed that their town could become supreme in the Ohio
                        Falls area. But there was optimism among 
                        New Albany
                     leaders, and viewed in the light of the general situation in the middle part of the
                    past century this optimism becomes somewhat understandable.
            Of the multiple factors which might influence the growth and success of a town in this area of the
                    Middle West in the past century, the major one was the degree of success with which it could fit
                    into the over-all pattern of transportation and trade. In 1830, and even by the middle of the
                    century, this pattern was still highly flexible. And though far behind 
                        Louisville
                     in total population and general development, 
                        New Albany
                     did possess important commercial advantages. Chief among these were its growing role as
                    a trade mart for a large agricultural section of southern Indiana and its favorable location near
                    the lower end of the Falls whereby it was, potentially at least, as good a transshipment point as 
                        Louisville
                    . Added to these was its prominence as a center 
                  
                     * Victor M. Bogle is a staff member of the history
                            department of Tougaloo Southern Christian College, Tougaloo, 
                                Mississippi
                            . This article is a revised chapter of his Ph.D. dissertation at Boston
                            University, written under the direction of Warren S. Tyron. Previous articles in the series
                            are: "Settlement of 
                                New Albany
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), XLVIII (1952), 277-288; "
                                New Albany
                             as a Commercial and Shipping Point," ibid., 369-378; "
                                New Albany
                            , ‘A Flourishing Place,’" ibid., XLIX (1953), 1-15; "A Society Develops in 
                                New Albany
                            ," ibid., 173-190; "
                                New Albany
                            's Attachment to the Ohio River," ibid., 249-266; "
                                New Albany
                            : Reaching for the Hinterland," ibid., L (1954),
                            145-166.
                  
                     1 "We are saluted with the ‘generous
                                shadow of the outstretched wing of 
                                    Louisville
                                
                     ’! Rather a Upas poison, or Anaconda embrace, devouring
                            everything it can feed upon." New-
                                    Albany
                                 Gazette, June 3, 1836.
               
                     for boat building. Although this feature proved to have limited
                    influence on 
                        New Albany
                    's later development, it contributed a large share to the general optimism
                    prevailing in the town at midcentury.
            In presenting their case as a worthy rival of 
                        Louisville
                    , the 
                        New Albany
                     leaders consistently emphasized these advantages, and to some degree they tried to
                    formulate a program for development in line with them. Perhaps they over-stressed current and
                    obvious advantages while they failed to interpret those trends in urban development which would be
                    more important determinants in the future. Whatever the reasons for 
                        New Albany
                    's losing out in the contest, the rivalry was sustained for many decades, and
                    during the middle third of the nineteenth century there was little indication that the Hoosiers
                    would ever concede victory to the town across the river.
            The successful completion of a canal around the Falls on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side of the river in 1831 added immeasurably to 
                        Louisville
                    's advantages over its neighbor.2 But the idea of an
                    Indiana canal to circumvent the Falls on the northern side of the river continued to be a lively
                    issue. Proposals to have this canal built appeared time and again throughout the next forty years;
                    it was the best talking point to bolster the hopes of 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Jeffersonville
                     that they might someday overcome the domination of their powerful rival.
            
               
                        Louisville
                     people, well satisfied with the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal as it was, did not improve it until they were finally constrained by the threat
                    that the long discussed Indiana canal might become a reality. This 
                        Kentucky
                     canal was a gilt-edged investment for those who were fortunate enough to own stock. In
                    addition to several thousand smaller boats, about 14,000 steamboats passed through from 1831 to
                    1843, netting more than $1,200,000. Tolls were charged according to the rated capacity of
                    the vessel, not the weight actually carried. Since by 1850 the average steamboat had a capacity of
                    about 350 tons, at 50¢ per ton each boat paid about $175.00. For the
                    twelve-year period, 1831-1843, the federal government's share of the profits was
                    $258,378.00, which was $23,378.00 more than its original investment. 
                  
                     2 Logan Esarey, "Internal Improvements in Early
                            Indiana," Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895-), V (1911), 65-69.
               
                     Physical limitations of the canal also caused dissatisfaction
                    among 
                        Cincinnati
                     and other up-river shipping people. The locks were only 182 feet long and
                    49¢ feet wide, while a bridge spanning the canal was only 52 feet above the water
                        line.3 These various limitations automatically increased freight rates on
                    boats customarily making trips on both sides of the Falls, further standarized the practice of
                    dividing the packet trade at 
                        Louisville
                    , accelerated the volume of the transshipment business in the Falls area, and prevented
                    most of the new and improved steamboats of the 1850's from even entering the canal. In the
                    eyes of river men, the canal had in no sense eliminated the hazard of the Falls but had instead
                    supplied an additional barrier which could profit nobody but the canal owners and their allies, the
                    transshipment men. But 
                        Louisville
                     interests were content to allow the situation to continue because they had just enough
                    of a canal to increase the importance of their city as a commercial focal point on the
                        Ohio River system.
            Plans for an Indiana canal furnished a kind of solace to the people of 
                        New Albany
                     who thought that their town was an eligible rival for 
                        Louisville
                    . Eventually, they felt, the time would come when the idea would be carried out and 
                        Louisville
                     would finally be toppled from its lofty position as the chief Falls city. There were
                    those in 
                        New Albany
                     who sought immediate execution of the proposal. In 1836 James Collins, the 
                        New Albany
                     representative in the general assembly, joined his colleague from 
                        Jeffersonville
                     in presenting to the legislature a petition "praying for an act incorporating
                    a company to construct a Canal around the Falls, commencing at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and terminating at 
                        New Albany
                    ."4 The editor of the New-
                            Albany
                         Gazette, a brother 
                  
                     3 The 
                                Louisville
                             and 
                                Portland
                             Canal began above the Falls at 
                                Louisville
                             and ended below the Falls near the small town of 
                                Portland
                            . Archer B. Hulbert, Waterways of Westward Expansion (
                                Cleveland
                            , 1903), 204-205; this is vol. IX of the Historical Highways of
                                America series. Wheeling Bridge Case (
                        Saratoga Springs, New
                                York
                     , 1851), xxxi, 386-387; James Hall, The West: Its
                                Commerce and Navigation (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1848), 82; House Executive Documents, 28th Cong., 1st Sess.,
                            No. 54 (serial no. 442). It is presumed, in the light of the increased river traffic in the
                            Falls area throughout the middle years of the century, that the 
                                Louisville
                             and 
                                Portland
                             Canal toll receipts increased substantially. One indication of this increase is
                            figures supplied in the 
                                Clay
                             "memorial," summarized in the New-
                                    Albany
                                 Gazette, May 6, 1836.
                  
                     4
                            New-
                                    Albany
                                 Gazette, January 29, 1836; Indiana House Journal,
                            1835-1836, p. 234.
               
                     of Collins and also a stanch advocate of anything resembling an
                    internal improvement, lent his full support to the measure. "It involves an immense
                    interest," he wrote in 1836, "and is calculated to reduce a large and respectable
                    class of our citizens, as well as those of other states, from, what may be termed,
                    oppression." He added: "The state owes it to her own citizens, if not to the
                    citizens of other states, to furnish them a safe way, to pass the Falls with their produce, and we
                    know of no better."5
            
            The prospect that the Indiana canal might be built at this time prompted 
                        Louisville
                     to counter with a proposal for the federal government to buy all the stock of the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal and operate it as a toll-free enterprise. Henry Clay presented a memorial
                    embodying this proposal to the United States Senate early in April, 1836, but no definite action was
                    taken. The Indiana congressional representation joined those from 
                        Ohio
                     and other interested states in forming a bloc against the proposal.6
            
            By 1838 thousands of Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     citizens had forwarded petitions for an Indiana canal to 
                        Washington
                    . They pleaded with the federal government to support the newly chartered "‘
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        New Albany
                     Canal Company"‘ in the form of "
                        United States
                     lands, subscription of stock, or donation, as may be deemed proper."7
                    
                        Ohio
                    , however, was the prime mover in the agitation to get action on the Indiana canal. 
                        Cincinnati
                     was the chief sufferer from the "oppression" of the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal, and the influence of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     merchants and shippers was the major force behind the Indiana canal proposals all
                    during this period. Indiana graciously followed along because, after all, it was to be a Hoosier
                    canal.
            The idea of an Indiana canal as the remedy for the shippers' woes did not gain sufficient
                    momentum after 1836 to bring about tangible results. In 1848 Indiana chartered a new company which
                    was given seven years to complete the 
                  
                     5
                            New-
                                    Albany
                                 Gazette, January 29, 1836.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., May 6, 1836. The 
                                Clay
                             memorial eventually became a Senate bill which would have enabled 
                                Kentucky
                             to buy all the shares in the canal, including those of the federal government,
                            so that the canal could be operated almost toll-free. The bill failed to get through the
                            House. See Congressional Globe, 24th Cong., 1st Sess., 316, 400-401, 416,
                            417, 427, 447, 460, 461, and 463.
                  
                     7
                            House Executive Documents, 25th Cong., 3d Sess., No. 206 (serial no,
                        347).
               
                     canal. It was formed for "the purpose of opening and
                    constructing a canal navigation, with suitable locks, docks and basins, including the water power,
                    around the falls of the Ohio river, within the State of Indiana."8 The charter included the following clause which shows that 
                        New Albany
                    's part in the proceedings was an important one: "It is and shall be
                    necessary for said company, before they construct said canal, to procure the consent of the mayor
                    and council of the city of 
                        New Albany
                    , as to the location of said southern or lower terminus of the same: … said
                    mayor and council shall not have the right to require the southern or lower portion of said canal to
                    terminate at a point on the Ohio river which may be deemed
                        impracticable."9
            
            When the corporation was reorganized in 1849 this clause favoring 
                        New Albany
                     was stricken out, but of the three possible routes later proposed, one was highly
                    favorable to the town. This proposed route began above 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , crossed Silver Creek into 
                        Floyd County
                    , skirted around the back of 
                        New Albany
                    , and passed into Falling Run Creek on the northwest side of the town. A canal built
                    along this route would have been 7.2 miles long and cost $2,973,642.00.10 It would have brought the great flow of Ohio River traffic to 
                        New Albany
                    's doorstep; what it might have done for the future development of the town can
                    only be imagined.
            By 1850 the people of 
                        New Albany
                     were apathetic about all Indiana canal proceedings because—according to the
                    editor of the Ledger—they feared she would lose the advantages of her
                    position as head of steamboat navigation for large boats as well as part of her steamboat-building
                    business. Nevertheless, he pointed out, a canal was going to be built because 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Pittsburgh
                     were determined to remove the obstruction of the Falls. The immediate concern was its
                    location, on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side or on the Indiana side of the river; if on the latter, the best of three possible
                    routes was that around the city with the exit near Falling Run. The editor appealed to readers to
                    discuss the subject in the columns of his paper in the hope of eliciting the truth.11
            
            
               
                  8
                        Local Laws of Indiana, 1848-1849, pp. 94-101; Charter and
                            Organization of the Indiana Canal Company (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1850), 3. Two 
                            New Albany
                         and five 
                            Jeffersonville
                         men were on the list of directors, but one of the three 
                            Cincinnati
                         directors, James C. Hall, was chosen president. Ibid., 9-10.
               
                  9
                        Charter and Organization of the Indiana Canal Company, 8.
               
                  10
                        Ibid., 9, 22-23.
               
                  11
                        New Albany Daily Ledger, January 12, 1852.
            
            
            Within the next few years the truth was elicited, but it was a kind of truth with so many facets that
                    nobody knew what to do about it. The proposed 
                        New Albany
                    -Falling Run channel came to be considered less and less favorably because the
                    town's new railroad would have been forced to cross a one-hundred-foot drawbridge.
                    Furthermore, the canal "would make a serious inroad into the lots and valuable property in 
                        New Albany
                     and its vicinity, while the large locks would not have a suitable site at the mouth of
                    the Falling Run."12
            
            As the popularity of the 
                        New Albany
                     channel dimmed, the town's interest in the whole scheme lagged even more.
                    Although efforts were not abandoned to keep citizens informed of the benefits that an Indiana canal,
                    wherever dug, would bring, they met with little success. Meanwhile 
                        Cincinnati
                     interests labored to keep the issue alive and by 1853 had subscribed $70,000
                    toward the construction of the canal.13 No doubt some 
                        New Albany
                     people agreed with the 
                  
                            Muncie
                         Messenger that 
                        Cincinnati
                    's role in the enterprise was a bit too conspicuous: "Is it not 
                        Cincinnati
                     almost entirely alone? and is not Indiana overlooking her own interests by aiding in
                    … a great work for 
                        Ohio
                    ."14
            
            By July, 1853, it began to look as though the efforts of everybody except those in 
                        Kentucky
                     had been in vain. A report circulated that federal engineers investigating all possible
                    means for eliminating the Falls had supported an enlargement of the old 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal. Apparently "the jealousy of 
                        Louisville
                     will always interpose obstacles to the free navigation of the 
                        Ohio
                    ."15 But in its report of 1856, the Indiana Canal Company
                    still maintained that a canal and sluiceway on the Indiana side was the best alternative, an opinion
                    which was shared, at least officially, by the 
                        New Albany
                     Board of Trade in 1857.16 But both the Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                     factions awaited federal financial aid, and nothing happened on either side of the
                    river to execute any of the many plans. With the coming of the 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., February 24, 1852.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., July 11, 1853.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., July 27, 1853.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., July 29, 1853.
                  
                     16
                            Report of the Indiana Canal Company, on the Improvement of the Falls of the 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1856), 12; 
                                New Albany
                             Board of Trade, Commercial and Manufacturing Advantages of 
                                    New Albany
                                , Indiana (
                                New Albany
                            , 1857), 23.
               
                     Civil War, all the programs were shelved, and when they were
                    brought out again after the war the choice fell to 
                        Louisville
                    .17
            
            Thus did 
                        New Albany
                     pass up another chance of pressing through advantages that might have appreciably
                    altered its relative position around the Falls. Its indecision might in part be explained by its
                    unavowed interdependence with 
                        Louisville
                    , which spoke more loudly than all the claims of local editors that 
                        Louisville
                     was its natural rival.
            The editors of New Albany newspapers might have been laboring under a misconception when they
                    emphasized the differences between rather than the mutual interests of their town and 
                        Louisville
                    , but this situation in no wise lessened their determination to publicize their point of
                    view. When Benjamin Cassedy wrote in his History of 
                            Louisville
                        
                (1852) that "the pre-eminence which it [
                        Louisville
                    ] has already gained over the neighboring towns forbids all hope of rivalry on their
                    part, and compels them to unite their interests with those of 
                        Louisville
                    ,"18 it is evident that he was not accustomed to reading
                    the New Albany journals. Nobody could pick up a Gazette of the 1830's and
                    1840's or a Ledger of the 1850's without discovering that,
                    however forbidden, "all hope of rivalry" was far from dead.
            In the years from 1830 until after the Civil War, 
                        New Albany
                     people wanted no more transportation ties with 
                        Louisville
                     than were necessary. Ferryboats were accepted because they were, in part at least,
                    owned and operated by 
                        New Albany
                     citizens and did nothing really to eliminate the mile-wide river barrier that served as 
                        New Albany
                    's wall of security against complete economic penetration by 
                        Louisville
                    . A bridge was a different matter. Should one be built, the people thought, it would be
                    but a matter of time till 
                        Louisville
                     would reach across to secure for itself many of the advantages that were properly the
                    possession of the Indiana towns. The unceasing efforts of these towns to supply themselves with
                    links to the interior would be all for nought if 
                        Louisville
                     were allowed to step in with a bridge and gain all the benefits.
            In 1836 it looked as though this was just what 
                        Louisville
                     promoters planned to do. This date coincides with that 
                  
                     17 Hulbert, Waterways of Westward Expansion, 205.
                  
                     18 Benjamin Casseday, The History of 
                                    Louisville
                                , from its Earliest Settlement till the Year 1852 (
                                Louisville
                            , 1852), 209.
               
                     of the inauguration of Indiana's elaborate internal
                    improvements program, and 
                        Louisville
                     merchants clearly planned to bid for their share of the trade that would come as the
                    neighboring state was developed. At this time 
                        Louisville
                     "economic expansionists" had three immediate objectives: (1) to
                    prevent construction of a bridge from 
                        Cincinnati
                     across the river to 
                        Kentucky
                    , at 
                        Covington
                    ; (2) to obtain their own bridge across to Indiana so they could make use of the
                    proposed Hoosier railroads; and (3) to establish 
                        Louisville
                     as the terminal of the 
                  Charleston,
                            South Carolina
               , railroad that was to be
                    built from the Thus 
                        Louisville
                     would be a veritable crossroads of midwestern river and rail traffic. The factors which
                    prevented 
                        Louisville
                     from carrying out all of this program are properly a part of the history of that city;
                    but the Indiana bridge proposal and the attitude of 
                        New Albany
                     toward it are a significant part of the history of the Indiana town.
            In the contest over anything as important as an Ohio River bridge the citizens
                    of 
                        New Albany
                     of 1836 had no really potent weapons. But they had one advantage: projects of such
                    proportions were uncommon, and any attempt to complete one was fraught with countless difficulties.
                    Lack of co-operation and ridicule were the best strategy.
            Apparently 
                        Louisville
                     promoters resented 
                        New Albany
                    's attitude, for in June, 1836, the editor of the Louisville
                        Journal wrote: "The stock is taken; the funds are ready … so that our
                    goodly sister 
                        New Albany
                    , if she has any objection to living hereafter in close proximity with 
                        Louisville
                    , and reposing under the generous shadow of her outstretched wing, cannot pack up and be
                    off down the river or into the interior a moment too soon."20 The 
                  
                            New Albany
                         Gazette replied: "We think the fishes of the Falls may rest assured
                    that they are to have yet many years of sweet repose before they will be disturbed in their watery
                    beds by this great ‘enterprize,’ crossing the River."21
            
            Some of the initial work on the bridge had gotten under way by September, 1836, and the editor of the
                        
                        
                            Louisville
                        
                    
                    
                  
                     19 This program was summarized in the New-
                                    Albany
                                 Gazette, January 22, 1836. See also Albert L. Kohlmeier, The Old Northwest as the Keystone of the Arch of American Federal Union (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1938), 22-30; and R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest,
                                Pioneer Period, 1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), II, 311-312.
                  
                     20
                            New-
                                    Albany
                                 Gazette, June 3, 1836.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid.
               
                    
                    Journal invited his colleague in 
                        New Albany
                     to accompany him to the project to prove to him that a bridge was actually being built.
                    The editor of the Gazette accepted: "We will take the trip with pleasure,
                    if our friend of the Journal will accompany us to the spot and point out the work, for if any thing
                    has yet been done, it must be under the water, where it will very likely remain."22
            
            A few days later "a vast multitude of people" gathered to witness the laying of the
                    foundation stone of the new bridge. There were imposing ceremonies and an "appearance of
                    earnestness" in this project, but the editor of the Gazette remained
                    skeptical: "Surely under existing circumstances, the most sanguine cannot hope for its completion.—A vast amount of wind has been expended
                    in blowing the project into its present standing, and after some little inquiry we have not been
                    able to ascertain that any thing more than WIND work has been done in the matter."23
            
            As it turned out, "wind work" was not enough to get the bridge built, and the
                    skepticism of the Gazette editor proved valid. This early attempt to construct a
                    bridge to span the 
                        Ohio
                     at the Falls was abandoned, not to be taken up seriously again for almost forty
                        years.24 In the meantime, 
                        New Albany
                    's attitude toward bridge building was to undergo considerable change. As
                    shipping on the 
                        Ohio
                     steadily increased, the mercantile interests of 
                        Louisville
                     became ever more aware that their ambitions were hampered because 
                        Louisville
                     was in reality a city above the Falls. By the middle of the century the wharf at 
                        Portland
                    , at the lower end of the Falls, had become an integral part of 
                        Louisville
                    's shipping pattern, but there was still the threat that 
                        New Albany
                     would draw into its port a sizeable share of the lower river trade. Northern produce
                    could be shipped from 
                        New Albany
                     directly to 
                        New Orleans
                     and other southern points without the delay and expense incurred if it were hauled from 
                        Louisville
                     down to 
                        Portland
                    . Thus farmers who wished to ship produce southward or westward might be attracted to
                    the 
                        New Albany
                     markets because the buyers there, exempt 
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., September 2, 1836.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., September 9, 1836.
                  
                     24
                            History of the Ohio Falls Cities and Their Counties
                            (2 vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1882), I, 280.
               
                     from additional drayage charges, could give them a higher price
                    than the 
                        Louisville
                     merchants.25
            
            By 1850 much of this threat was still only theoretical, but interests on both sides of the river
                    surmised that it might some day be more than this. A Greenville, Indiana, resident summed up this
                    view in a letter to the New Albany Daily Ledger in 1850: "If position
                    have any effect on the future greatness of a city,—which no one will for one moment
                    doubt—… the prospects are brighter for 
                        New Albany
                     to become a great city than for 
                        Louisville
                    . … Her influence is already beginning to be felt, and all the efforts of 
                        Louisville
                     to keep her down, will be as fruitless as they would be to reverse the course of the 
                        Ohio
                    . … In fifteen years, she will be the superior; and men of judgment and
                    experience in such matters, from both places, have predicted the like result."26
            
            It was the construction of the New Albany and Salem Railroad that really awakened the 
                        Louisville
                     people to the fact that they had a serious commercial competitor in 
                        New Albany
                    , and they obviously decided that the best way to turn this threat into a boon was to
                    improve road facilities on the western outskirts of their city. Thus the Indiana farmers and
                    merchants would be encouraged to pass through 
                        New Albany
                    , cross the river to 
                        Portland
                    , and proceed to 
                        Louisville
                     to carry on their business. The editor of the Louisville Democrat
                    advised that "a plank road to some suitable point below the Falls, would, without doubt,
                    bring to 
                        Louisville
                     the trade of a large extent of country on the Indiana side, which, for the want of this
                    facility and transportation, is now centered in 
                        New Albany
                    ."27
            
            Like other roads in this section of the country, the 
                        Louisville
                    -
                        Portland
                     road had to be repaired time and time again in order to fulfill the demands placed upon
                    it by the heavy drayage traffic. In 1850 plans were actually carried through to plank it, but by
                    1852 evidence of this improvement had almost disappeared. The editor of the Louisville
                        Courier advised that anyone traveling the road "had better take a life preserver
                        along."28 By 1859 a horse railroad had been placed between the two 
                        Kentucky
                     ports, and it served 
                  
                     25 The potential
                            
                                New Albany
                             market is what the 
                                Louisville
                             merchants really feared. Their greater capital and volume of business enabled
                            them to buy higher and sell lower than their competitors in 
                                New Albany
                            , but they foresaw the day when the 
                                New Albany
                             merchants would be able to make full use of their position below the Falls.
                  
                     26
                            New Albany Daily Ledger, December 4, 1850.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., July 1, 1850.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., December 1, 1852.
               
                     as a vital connection between the two places. The railroad
                    company ran omnibuses from the 
                        New Albany
                    -
                        Portland
                     ferry landing on the western end of the line, and from the eastern end at Twelfth
                    Street in 
                        Louisville
                     omnibuses carried passengers to any place in the city29. Many years
                    were to elapse before the towns on the northern side of the river were to have similar
                    transportation facilities to bind them together.
            Not only did 
                        Louisville
                     merchants want and get improvement of road facilities below the Falls, but they desired
                    the construction of an additional wharf below 
                        Portland
                     at a point more nearly opposite 
                        New Albany
                    . The Louisville Journal recommended this step as another means for
                    the city to gain the increased business that should follow the completion of the New Albany and
                    Salem Railroad. The editor warned that 
                        Louisville
                     would be "‘blind indeed if she fails to reap the full advantage of
                    the enterprise that is constructing a railroad from 
                        New Albany
                     through some of the richest portions of Indiana up to the lakes.'"30
            
            
               
                        New Albany
                     could hardly be expected to acquiesce in these attempts. The plots of 
                        Louisville
                     were adequately exposed day by day in the Ledger. The editor greeted
                    the plan for a wharf at "
                        West Louisville
                    " thus: "[This plan] exhibits, plainly, the designs of 
                        Louisville
                     upon the legitimate business of 
                        New Albany
                    —business which it has cost them, individually and collectively, much of
                    their means and efforts to secure—and which, we are satisfied, they will use ever proper
                    effort to retain. It shows that no exertion will be spared by 
                        Louisville
                     to secure to herself the fruits of our labor and enterprise, to which she has no more
                    claim or right than has a town in the island of 
                        Japan
                    ."31
            
            There is no way to measure the degree of success achieved by 
                        Louisville
                     merchants in gathering the increased business that came with the building of the
                    southern Indiana railroads. But though as yet no bridge spanned the 
                        Ohio
                    , it is obvious that much northern produce found its way to 
                        Louisville
                     markets and was further dispersed from its wharves. How much was to be channeled
                    through the Indiana ports and how much was to be allowed to escape across to 
                        Louisville
                     was the crux of this commercial rivalry that lasted as long as 
                        New Albany
                     retained its status as a shipping point on the 
                        Ohio
                    .
            
               
                  29
                        History of the Ohio Falls Cities, I, 319.
               
                  30
                        New Albany Daily Ledger, September 2, 1850.
               
                  31
                        Ibid., July 23, 1850.
            
            
            A growing sand bar in the river between 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Portland
                     supplied a. theme for heated editorial debate. During the summer months this
                    obstruction appeared invariably, and protestation of innocence of ownership oppeared just as
                    invariably in the contesting papers. 
                        New Albany
                     called it the "
                        Portland
                     bar," 
                        Louisville
                     called it the "
                        New Albany
                     bar," and the two passed it back and forth like a hot potato; however, it did
                    more damage to 
                        Louisville
                    's shipping business than to 
                        New Albany
                    's. When the water was at its lowest, down-river boats could come up only as
                    far as 
                        New Albany
                    , where they were required to load or unload much of their normal 
                        Louisville
                     cargo. The following excerpt from the Ledger shows how 
                        Louisville
                    's misfortune played into the hands of 
                        New Albany
                    : "A little incident which occurred yesterday, and which will occur every day,
                    will show the public the respective advantages of 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     as shipping points. The packet Fawn, which is a very light draught boat, took in her 
                            Louisville
                         freight at the 
                            New Albany
                         wharf. The freight—a portion of it bagging and rope—was
                    drayed from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Portland
                    , ferried across the river, and from the ferry again drayed to the wharf, to be placed
                    on the boat. This has occurred at the very commencement of the low water season. All know that last
                    summer and the previous one, the 
                        St. Louis
                     packets could not get to 
                        Portland
                    , but conveyed their passengers to 
                        New Albany
                     in hacks at the expense of the boats. They will be compelled to do the same this year.
                    Indeed, nearly every boat which attempts to go to or come from 
                        Portland
                    , gets aground."32
            
            In order to fulfill their obligations to customers down the river, some of the 
                        Louisville
                     merchants were compelled in 1853 to buy their goods in 
                        New Albany
                     and ship them at a great loss from its wharf. The editor of the Louisville
                        Journal admitted that his city was likely to suffer permanent injury from this state of
                    affairs unless a remedy could be found. He suggested the development of port facilities at "
                        West Louisville
                    ," five miles down the river, and construction of roads adequate to care for
                    the heavy summer traffic to that point. The Ledger editor, however, sneered that
                    the 
                        West Louisville
                     humbug had long been exploded, but that some people still clung to it as drowning men
                    caught at straws.33
            
            
               New Albany river men could amuse themselves by 
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., June 18, 1853.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., June 23, 1853.
               
                     watching determined steamboats struggle to get past the "
                        Portland
                     bar," and laugh at 
                        Louisville
                    's shipping perplexities. But it was this sort of "catching at
                    straws'' that stretched the city limits of 
                        Louisville
                     far down the river, while the 
                        New Albany
                     neighbors were prone to sit comfortably by, oblivious of the significance of this
                        extension.34
            
            The people of 
                        New Albany
                     had a just grievance against the 
                        Louisville
                     papers, which were in the habit of designating their own city as the building site for
                    some of 
                        New Albany
                    's famous and successful steamboats. Since 
                        New Albany
                     was proud of its steamboats, 
                        Louisville
                     could have found no better means of annoying her neighbors than to claim the floating
                    palaces that were the products of Hoosier industry. The following notice is but one of dozens that
                    the editor of the Ledger was obliged to print during the years 
                        New Albany
                     was a leading steamboat-building center: "The Journal and Courier of 
                        Louisville
                    , claim the new steamer Cherokee, to which we have frequently alluded, as being built at
                    that place! Of course the editors of these papers must have known this statement to be untrue, and
                    so also do nearly all their readers. The Cherokee was built in this city by Messrs. Dowerman
                    & Humphreys, cabin by Hart & Stoy, engines by Phillips, Hise, & Co.,
                    painting by Geo. B. Spurrier."35
            
            The Louisville Journal carried the following notice of the
                    "Isabella": "This is the name of a new and beautiful steamer which was
                    built here during the present season for Capt. J. B. Walker of Mobile, and designed for the
                        Alabama river trade. … Her hull was built by E. & J.
                    Howard of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , and her cabin by Hart & Stoy of 
                        New Albany
                    ."36 The Ledger asked: "Will the
                    Journal folks be good enough to tell us how the Isabella came to be ‘built’ at 
                        Louisville
                    , if her hull was built at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and her cabin at 
                        New Albany
                    ? The truth is, the Isabella was completed before the 
                        Louisville
                     folks caught a glimpse of her."37
            
            On at least one occasion the 
                        Cincinnati
                     papers stepped in to put 
                        Louisville
                     straight on the steamboat-building issue: "The Louisville Courier, of
                    Saturday, is in an extatic fever about ‘our mechanics’ and
                        ‘our steamboats.’ ‘Our
                    mechanics’ and 
                        Cincinnati
                     men, and ‘our steamboats’ were built at 
                        New Albany
                    , Indiana."38
            
            
               
                  34
                        Ibid., May 21, 1859. On the previous day ten on hung the 
                            Portland
                         bar.
               
                  35
                        Ibid., January 8, 1850.
               
                  36
                        Ibid., October 26, 1849.
               
                  37
                        Ibid.
               
                  38
                        Ibid., December 9, 1852. It is probable that many of the steamboat
                        "mechanics" in the Falls area had come from 
                            Cincinnati
                        .
            
            
            Such persistent correction of the 
                        Louisville
                     claims was only momentarily successful in making 
                        Louisville
                     editors desist. When pressed to the wall, the 
                        Louisville
                     papers responded with such statements as, "Our money built them."
                    then the editor of the Ledger really warmed to the issue: "No amount of
                        money can make a boat fast unless her hull is modeled by a man of genius and
                    experience, her timbers properly adjusted and put together, and her machinery built with the
                    greatest precision—every part acting harmoniously and in concert. … What
                    greater insult could be offered to a ship builder or engine builder, who has devoted his life to
                    studying and experimenting on the most approved mode of building, than to tell him that all his
                    talent and all his labor is nothing—that all is the property of his employer, whose money buys all?"39
            
            Several reasons might be given for 
                        Louisville
                    's persistence in claiming 
                        New Albany
                    's boats. Her newspapers had a wide circulation throughout the 
                        Ohio
                    -
                        Mississippi
                     system and when they recorded that a boat was built "here" they felt
                    it unnecessary to explain to a casual reader in 
                        New Orleans
                     or 
                        St. Paul
                     that the work was actually performed on the north bank of the river. No doubt, too,
                    they were guilty of doing just what the Ledger accused them of
                    doing—publicizing the 
                        Louisville
                     shipyards by holding up the excellent 
                        New Albany
                     boats as examples of the work produced there. And probably they did it also merely to
                    get reaction across the river.
            For decades the 
                        Louisville
                     editors included in their papers items that belittled 
                        New Albany
                    , and for decades the 
                        New Albany
                     editors found ample sarcasm to balance the score. There were quarrels over the volume
                    of business, population figures, the relative increase in number of houses, the condition of
                    streets, the race question—over anything and everything that would enable the supporters
                    of either place to slap verbally the pretensions of the other. Taken singly, most of the issues were
                    petty. Taken together they reflect the jealousy and suspicion that these neighbors felt for each
                    other until the day when 
                        Louisville
                    's superiority was so overwhelming that there were no longer grounds for
                    contest.
            
               
                  39
                        Ibid., May 16, 1853.
            
         
         
         
            A Tunnel for the Southern Trade?
            John J. Weisert*
            
            In the middle of the nineteenth century, some citizens of the Ohio Falls area
                    proposed to channel commerce between Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                     through a tunnel under the river. Like many other unrealized projects of a hundred
                    years ago, the imaginative boldness of the idea does its propounders a certain credit. And having
                    projected the tunnel, the planners further proposed to carry it under 
                        Louisville
                     to emerge somewhere south of Prather Street, where connections could be made with the
                    southern railroad lines then under construction or in the planning stage.
            The instigator of the scheme was the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Southern Railroad, which had been chartered in 1849 to run south from 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana.1 By 1852 William J. Holman, later president of the road,
                    published a brochure of thirty-two pages dealing with the right of way between 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        Muncie
                     and another of sixteen pages discussing an experimental survey between those two
                        towns.2 As events were to prove, this was the only part of the road which
                    was nearly completed by the original company. At the time, however, it was held to be merely the
                    first step, for almost directly south of 
                        Muncie
                     was the more attractive goal of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , a point within tantalizing reach of still more lucrative southern markets. Within two
                    years plans were unveiled which envisaged not only completion of the road to 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , but also the extension under rock and earth that was to emerge on the far side of the
                    Gateway to the Southa.
            The first step in the undertaking was to obtain permission of 
                        Kentucky
                     authorities. This was done on March 6, 
                  
                     * John J. Weisert is assistant professor of modern
                            languages at the University of 
                                Louisville
                            .
                  
                     1
                            Local Laws of Indiana, 1848-1849, pp. 348-355.
                  
                     2
                            
                        
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 and Southern Railroad. Charter and By-Laws … to Which is
                                Appended the Report of an Experimental Survey of Said Road Between 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 and 
                                    Muncie
                                
                      (
                                Bluffton
                            , Indiana, 1852). This pamphlet was called to the attention of the author by
                            Caroline Dunn, librarian of the William Henry Smith Memorial Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . William J. Holman, Report of an Experimental Survey of that Part
                                of the 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 and Southern Railroad Between 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 and 
                                    Muncie
                                , to Which is Appended the Charter of Incorporation with a General Act
                                Amendatory of Corporations Therein Named (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1852) is in the Indiana University Library.
               
                     1854, when the general assembly of the commonwealth, with the
                    approval of the governor, granted permission to extend the road "through, into, over and
                    under so much of the Territory of the Commonwealth of 
                        Kentucky
                     as may be necessary to form a convenient connection with the Louisville and Nashville
                    Rail Road and the proposed Louisville and Memphis Rail Road, at some suitable point at or near the
                    southern limit of the City of 
                        Louisville
                    ."3 Permission was contingent, of course, upon the consent
                    of the common council of the city, which was given in a resolution passed by the board of aldermen
                    at their meeting of May 25, with an attractive clause exempting the road from all future taxation
                    because of its contribution to the city's progress, but with the proviso that the
                    resolution would not be effective unless the tunnel was put under contract and work actually
                    commenced within two years of that date. Two days later the general council passed a similar
                        resolution.4
            
            By the end of June, details of the project had been embodied in a pamphlet of forty-eight pages
                    entitled in part Exhibit of Condition, Resources, and Prospective Business…
                        Together with Cost by Contract and Estimate of Main Line, and Tunnel under the Ohio
                            River at 
                            Louisville
                        
                (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1854). On June 29, 1854, the Louisville Daily Courier published the
                    report of H. R. Weeks, an engineer of 
                        Muncie
                    , to the president of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Southern in which the plans and estimated costs of the work were set forth. The
                    accompanying editorial comment was enthusiastic, as was that of the 
                  
                            Louisville
                         Anzeiger on the next day, June 30, which repeated the plan in detail for its
                    German-speaking subscribers.
            At the meeting of the 
                        Louisville
                     board of aldermen on Thursday, August 10, Alderman Thomas Shanks moved the adoption of
                    a resolution setting up a joint committee from the board of aldermen and the board of common
                    council, which was to confer with Holman and report back to the 
                  
                     3
                            Acts of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , 1853-1854, II, 98-99.
                  
                     4 Journal of the 
                                Louisville
                             Board of Aldermen, 1853-1854, p. 261. This journal is available at the Office
                            of the Board of Aldermen, City Hall, 
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     .
                            The resolution of the general council is reproduced in 
                        
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 and Southern Railroad. Exhibit of Condition, Resources, and Prospective
                                Business: Together with Cost by Contract and Estimate of Main Line and Tunnel under the
                                    Ohio River at 
                           Louisville, Kentucky
                        , and 
                                    Jeffersonville
                                , Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1855), 26.
               
                     general council "whether any, and if any, what aid
                    should be extended to said Company for the purpose of constructing a tunnel under the Falls for the
                    purpose of passing Railway trains."5
            
            Thus the press encouraged the plan, and official support was not lacking. Public reaction is harder
                    to document. The area was undergoing one of its recurrent financial crises at this time;
                    nevertheless by December 1, a local member of the approximately seventy-five stock agents of the
                    road was reported to have obtained more than $10,000 in subscriptions in the city, and an
                    individual in 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana, more than $8,000.6
            
            Little additional propaganda was put forth until the middle of November, when Joseph A. Wright, then
                    governor of Indiana, was scheduled to address a meeting of friends of the tunnel at the
                    Merchants' Exchange in 
                        Louisville
                    . This event took place on November 16, and the Louisville Daily
                    Journal reported next morning that it was "large and highly respectable."
                    Preceding Governor Wright's speech, Holman addressed the group on the topic of the tunnel.
                    The governor then spoke "in a happy vein of mingled argument and exhortation." His
                    chief theme was that the citizens of 
                        Louisville
                     had allowed too many opportunities for the improvement of the town to slip by and they
                    had better not let this one pass also. In a flurry of enthusiasm, eleven hundred dollars'
                    worth of stock was subscribed at the end of the speech.
            Before the announcement of the names of the special stock agents for 
                        Louisville
                     was made, the Louisville Daily Journal pointed out an additional
                    advantage that would accrue from the undertaking: the work would supply sufficient gravel to surface
                    all the streets. Optimistically, the paper concluded: "It is possible that the materials to
                    be excavated… will be more than sufficient to pay for the taking of them out. It is known
                    that one immense bed of river gravel underlies the entire city."7 After
                    this hint of additional advantages, newly appointed stock agents for the city were identified by the
                    same newspaper on December 2 as John C. Beeman for the first and second wards; Colonel William 
                  
                     5 Journal of the 
                                Louisville
                             Board of Aldermen, 1853-1854, p. 387.
                  
                     6 Raymond C. Riebel, 
                        
                                    Louisville
                                 Panorama (
                                Louisville
                            , 1954), 68; Louisville Daily Journal, December 2, 1854
                  
                     7
                            Louisville Daily Journal, November 21, 1854.
               
                     Duerson for the third and fourth wards; Richard Ronald for the
                    fifth and sixth wards; Robert Wintersmith for the seventh ward; and Samuel Parker for the eighth.
            Now the fund-raising was to begin in earnest. But the doubled effort only called forth redoubled
                    resistance. On December 14, the 
                  
                            Louisville
                         Times published an article signed "Tunnel," which again
                    glowingly described the advantages of such a work, together with an editorial endorsement. This drew
                    an answer within forty-eight hours in the form of a letter to the editors of the Louisville Daily Journal. Over the signature "Bridge," the author
                    denounced with much heat and sarcasm the earlier communication and demonstrated to his own
                    satisfaction the inevitability of a bridge at the Falls.8
            
            Two weeks of uneasy silence on the subject followed, during which the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Southern played one of its remaining trumps, the observation that if the road could
                    be built from 
                        Jeffersonville
                     to 
                        North Vernon
                    , it could connect with the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     there, thus giving passengers and freight a three-hour trip to 
                        Cincinnati
                     "without change of cars."9 Early in the new year,
                    on January 4, 1855, "Tunnel Junior" entered the lists against
                    "Bridge." With as much heat and somewhat more fancy he demonstrated in the Louisville Daily Journal of that date the superiority of the tunnel.
                    "Bridge" took up the challenge on January 6. Indeed, by heading his communication
                    "Bridge or Tunnel, No. 1" the editors of the Louisville Daily
                    Journal indicated that more was to come. But here the issue grew confused, for it is apparent
                    in the letter that "Bridge" was not only convinced of the sole correct method for
                    trains to pass from the Indiana to the 
                        Kentucky
                     shore of the river, but he was also strongly partisan in a local argument then raging
                    on the southern shore of the 
                        Ohio
                    . The question was whether work on the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Nashville
                     should be continued as planned, or whether efforts should be diverted to a 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Memphis
                     air-line road. What had been a field for newspaper polemics from this date became a
                    three-cornered argument, until by January 18 and the publication 
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., December 16, 1854. "Bridge" quotes with scorn
                            portions of the article by "Tunnel" and the accompanying editorial
                            support, which had appeared in the 
                        
                                    Louisville
                                 Times of December 14. The original is not available.
                  
                     9
                            Louisville Daily Journal, December 27, 1854.
               
                     of "Bridge or Tunnel, No. 5" the tunnel
                    disappeared completely from the picture.
            Events now began to move toward a denouement. The funds did not come in, whether because of the
                    eloquence of "Bridge," the continuing financial stringency, or rival business
                    interests. On April 7 a warrant was obtained against John Zulauf, president of the Jeffersonville
                    Railroad, which ran from that terminus to 
                        Edinburg
                     and thence to 
                        Indianapolis
                     over the tracks of the Madison and Indianapolis Railroad. The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Southern charged Zulauf with having circulated in financial circles of 
                        New York City
                     false statements which hindered the floating of a loan in that market. Damages of
                    $50,000 were asked, and the case was entered on the circuit court docket.10
            
            Two days later a delay in the general movement occurred when on April 9 the president and board of
                    directors of the Fort Wayne railroad met with the city council of 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and obtained a subscription of $200,000 in the bonds of the Indiana town.
                    Holman spoke brave words on this occasion about the completion of the northern division from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Muncie
                     and the southern division from 
                        Jeffersonville
                     to 
                        North Vernon
                    , but the latter section was only partially graded by his company.11
            
            Alarmed, or at least suspicious by this time, the 
                        Louisville
                     board of aldermen appointed another committee of three to "inquire into the
                    present condition" of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Southern and to report on the "propriety and expediency" of the
                    city's contributing its funds.12 The report must have been unfavorable,
                    for no official support was forthcoming. The 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Nashville
                     remained the prime object of concern of the city fathers, since the difficulties
                    besetting that road were quite sufficient to engage all of their attention.13
            
            The bonds of 
                        Jeffersonville
                     were sold at a rate of seventy-five cents on the dollar, and intimations of
                    "other financial arrangements … of a character highly favorable" were
                    published in the Louisville Daily Journal of June 23. Two days 
                  
                     10 Cases in the Circuit Court, Jefferson County Courthouse,
                                    
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                      (Case No. 4475).
                  
                     11
                            Louisville Daily Journal, April 9, 1855; History of the
                                    Ohio Falls Cities and Their Counties (2 vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1882), II, 346.
                  
                     12 Journal of the 
                                Louisville
                             Board of Aldermen, 1855, p. 240.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., pp. 240-242.
               
                     later the paper carried a letter from the president of the Ohio
                    and Mississippi Railroad Company, setting forth the golden future which he foresaw for the territory
                    to be served by the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Southern. For the present, however, he could only "wish our condition was
                    such as would warrant us in extending aid … in a more tangible shape, but we have our
                    troubles and can do little else than express our confidence in your road and earnest wishes for your
                        success."14 As a final gesture the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Southern had printed in 
                        New York City
                     an enlarged version of its booklet on "condition, resources, and prospective
                    business" which included this unctuous epistle.15
            
            But the punishment for daring to plan too boldly was at hand. The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Southern was forced into bankruptcy by the autumn of 1855, and its suit against
                    Zulauf was dismissed on November 24. The vision of a tunnel faded. Even talk of a bridge died out,
                    not to be resumed seriously until 1867. The railroad began a typically tortuous financial history
                    until its eventual absorption into the present Nickel Plate system. Work on the southern division
                    was ultimately completed by the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad, today a part of the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    .16
            
            
               
                  14
                        Louisville Daily Journal, June 25, 1855.
               
                  15
                        
                     
                                Fort Wayne
                             and Southern Railroad. Exhibit o Condition, Resources, and Prospective
                            Business: Together Cost by Contract and Estimate of Main Line and Tunnel under the
                                Ohio River at 
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     ,
                            and 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , Indiana (
                            New York
                        , 1855), M. 15.
               
                  16 Cases in the Circuit Court, Jefferson County Courthouse,
                                
                     Louisville, Kentucky
                   (Case No. 4475); First Annual
                            Report of the Louisville Bridge Company, 1867 (
                            Louisville
                        , 1868); Taylor Hampton, The Nickel Plate Road (
                            Cleveland
                        , 1947), 268 and passim; History of the Ohio Falls Cities, II,
                        346.
            
         
         
         
            Marcus Mote and his Pioneer School of Design
            
                    Opal Thornburg
                    *
                
            Marcus Mote, self-taught 
                        Quaker
                     artist born at 
                  West Milton, Ohio
               , in 1817, was one of the earliest
                    practitioners of his profession in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana. As a child he began to use indigo from his mother's bluing bag
                    and the juices of bloodroot and yellowroot to tint his pictures, applying his colors with a brush he
                    made from squirrel hair. At the age of twenty he was making watercolor miniatures on ivory and soon
                    thereafter was painting portraits in oil. For three years he taught in 
                        Quaker
                     subscription schools, but from the time he was twenty-two he was a full-time artist,
                    notwithstanding the fact that the Quakers, with whom he maintained an active membership, looked upon
                    art as a snare of Satan. In 1844 he moved to the vicinity of 
                  Lebanon, Ohio
               ; here he worked as
                    an itinerant artist for six years until he established in the town itself a studio which he
                    maintained until he moved to 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, in 1864.1
            
            His portraits include those of three governors, Jeremiah Morrow and Tom Corwin of 
                        Ohio
                     and Oliver P. Morton of Indiana. When ex-president John Quincy Adams stopped briefly at 
                        Lebanon
                     in 1843, Mote drew two sketches of him, which Adams autographed. Mote's
                    painting of "Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends in 1844" has been reproduced in a
                    number of books and other publications, sometimes as an example of the work of a pioneer artist but
                    more often as an illustration of types of conveyances used in the 1840's. In 1853-1854,
                    when panoramas were at the height of their popularity, Mote painted four of these mammoth
                    forerunners of the moving picture: "Uncle Tom's Cabin," from the book
                    published in 1852; "Paradise Lost," based on 
                        Milton
                    's poem; "The Geological History of the Course of Creation,"
                    in which he attempted to harmonize scientific discoveries 
                  
                     * Opal Thornburg is executive assistant to the president of
                            Earlham College, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Mote's journal, now in the Earlham College Library, shows
                            he was in 
                                Richmond
                             at intervals in the late months of 1863 (as he had been many times since 1836,
                            usually in October during Friends Yearly Meeting week); he rented a studio room on November
                            10, 1863, and began painting there, but maintained his studio in 
                        Lebanon, Ohio
                     , until March 17, 1865, returning to 
                                Lebanon
                             at intervals. His assistant, Samantha Hankins, joined him at the 
                                Richmond
                             studio on January 18, 1864. He established residence in 
                                Richmond
                             and moved his family there on March 5, 1864.
               
                     with the Biblical account; and "The Progress of
                        Intemperance."2
            
            The career of Marcus Mote as an art educator is especially significant. In his 
                        Lebanon
                     studio he took a few art students, and he continued the practice in his studio at 
                        Richmond
                    . During frequent visits to 
                        Cincinnati
                     he had become acquainted with the art school of Robert Conner, who had pioneered in
                    making art instruction available to women as early as 1841. Apparently it was the only art school in
                    the Middle West until Mote began in 1865 to insert in his advertisements the phrase,
                    "Richmond Academy of Design," to designate his group of students.3
            
            On April 27, 1867, the Richmond Weekly Telegram published an article by Mote on
                    "Art in 
                        Richmond
                    " in which he began a long campaign to raise the level of art education in the
                    city and the state. In this article he called attention to the need for and the practical uses of
                    training in drawing and painting, as well as the aesthetic values.
            That year he took a small group of students on a trip to 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        New York
                     to visit schools of design and galleries and to spend three weeks sketching in the
                    mountains of western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . At Old Shade Furnace in the Alleghenies they joined a group of artists and students
                    from the 
                        Pittsburgh
                     School of Design, an outgrowth of the one in 
                        Philadelphia
                    ; there he learned that the 
                        Pittsburgh
                     School had been granted a little assistance by the legislature of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . On his return to 
                        Richmond
                     he wrote another article for publication, this time in the Humming
                    
                  
                     2 The portrait of Morrow is at the Warren County Historical Museum, 
                                Lebanon
                                Ohio
                            , and that of Corwin at the statehouse in 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     .
                            Two Mote portraits of Morton are known, one in the G.A.R. Room at the Wayne County
                            Courthouse, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, and the other in the galleries of the 
                                Richmond
                             Art Association. The sketches of Adams have been lost, but photographic prints
                            remain. The painting of the 1844 Yearly Meeting of Friends hangs in Stout Memorial
                            Meetinghouse at Earlham College and has beem reproduced a number of times, as in Wilbur D.
                            Peat, Pioneer Painters of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954), facing p. 77. See also Opal Thornburg, "The Panoramas of
                            Marcus Mote, 1853-1854," Art in America (
                                New York
                            , 1913-), XLI (1953), 22-35.
                  
                     3 Mote's journal shows he was taking students at his 
                                Lebanon
                             studio in 1859 until his removal to 
                                Richmond
                             in 1864, and that in 
                                Richmond
                             he immediately assembled a group of students. A story on Conner's
                            school of design in 
                                Cincinnati
                             appeared in the Daily 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, October 29, 1853. Mote's first advertisement for his
                            Richmond Academy of Design (so called in that advertisement) appeared in the Richmond Weekly Telegram on February 18, 1865.
               
                    
                    Bird, in which he stated: "I am clearly of opinion that each State should
                    have at least one School of Design, encouraged or supported by the State, and free to all alike, and
                    subject to rules and regulations like all our Common Schools. … Time after time State
                    Educational Conventions are held, and this most important branch of education is not even hinted at,
                    much less acted upon."4 In thus advocating a school of art, and
                    especially the use of tax funds for art instruction, Marcus Mote was far ahead of his time.
            He continued for at least ten years to use the name 
                        Richmond
                     School of Design, and during this time had a total of 541 students. Throughout this
                    period his was the only art school in Indiana. The second was the Indiana School of Art in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which opened on October 15, 1877, and closed in 1879 for lack of patronage.5
            
            Until after the Civil War art schools offered little more than the opportunity to copy casts and
                    drawings. At the Academy of Design in 
                        New York City
                     only the most advanced pupils were permitted to draw from life, and there were no nude
                    models. Painting was not taught until after 1872. Since even recognized artists often copied
                    extensively the work of others instead of drawing from nature or from life, naturally copying was
                    thought a proper occupation for students. Asher Brown Durand, president of the National Academy of
                    Design from 1845 to 1861 and a leader of the Hudson River School of artists,
                    came to believe and to advocate the revolutionary theory that painting landscapes from nature should
                    come before the study of masterpieces of art, His theory did not receive general support, however,
                    since it neglected the principles of design which are best taught by example.6
            
            From references in his journal, it is clear that Marcus 
                  
                     4 The story of the trip to 
                        Philadelphia, New
                            York
                     , and Western 
                                Pennsylvania
                             is told in Mote's journal for that period, May 22-July 25, 1867. The
                            actual dates of the trip were June 10-July 25 inclusive. See also the Humming
                                Bird (
                                Richmond
                            ), August 13 and 24, 1867.
                  
                     5 Mary Q. Burnet, Art and Artists of Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1921), 385.
                  
                     6 Benjamin West set his student, Thomas Sully, to copying paintings in
                            his studio. When William M. Chase of Indiana began to study with Barton S. Hays he was given
                            the task of copying in oil a steel engraving of a picture by Rosa Bonheur and was kept on
                            copy work for a year. Samuel Isham, The History of American Painting (
                                New York
                            , 1927), 154; Burngt, Art and Artists of Indiana, 133; and
                            Virgil Barker, American Paintang (
                                New York
                            , 1950), 431.
               
                     Mote used a combination of these methods. He set new students
                    to copying, but he also allowed students to draw from nature. As early as March, 1864, he organized
                    a sketch club in which eleven teachers from 
                        Richmond
                     schools participated. This club made trips to the woods around 
                        Richmond
                     and to points of interest along the Whitewater River and various
                    creeks. There was still life drawing from fruits and flowers, or the subject might be a hen and
                    chickens, a puppy, or even a dog's hind leg. Marcus wrote in his journal, "I took
                    Sue S's Martha Washington to Nicholson's [book store] to hang to show a
                    student's work with less than 2 month's instruction."7 Sometimes students brought family photographs for instruction in making photo-portraits.
            In 1869 Mote moved his studio, which had been on the second floor of Vaughan's Building at
                    104 Main Street to Vaughan's new building at 298-300 Main Street, where he occupied the
                    third floor.8 Looking ahead to this move, in August he prepared and mailed
                    circulars advertising the School of Design, setting forth terms and rules. The new evening class in
                    drawing, which was to meet twice weekly, numbered nine students who paid $9.00 for the
                    course. In the class was President Joseph Moore of Earlham, who wanted to improve his ability to
                    illustrate his teaching of science. A later drawing class numbered twenty, all men except three.9 Apparently the name, School of Design for Women, which he sometimes used, was
                    meant more to encourage the ladies than to exclude the gentlemen.
            The 
                  
                            Richmond
                         Radical of January 20, 1870, published an unsigned statement concerning the
                    School of Design, probably written by Mote: "Marcus Mote's School of Design 
                  
                     7 Mote Journal, May 28, 1869. "Sue S" was probably
                            Sue Spence, who later became his assistant.
                  
                     8 Streets were later renumbered, but elderly 
                                Richmond
                             residents who remember Mote as an old man when they were children point out the
                            location of his studio as that of the present Roy Hirshburg Studio, 710 Main Street.
                  
                     9 Students sometimes paid their tuition in kind, bringing such produce
                            as butter or milk for use in the Mote home. Mote's journal during August, 1869, and
                            for several years following tells the story of his School of Design, supplemented by
                            occasional advertisements and news stories in the local papers. A journal entry on October
                            15, 1869, named Joseph Moore as one of his students. Another on March 22, 1872, mentioned
                            the class of twenty students, including three women. Journal entries during thb period refer
                            to students brin ing butter or milk, as on April 20 1877, when Alpheus Test "wanted
                            to arrange with me to take milk for Emma's lessons."
               
                     was commenced as an experiment, to see whether there was a
                    taste for Art among our citizens sufficient to warrant its continuance and full development. The
                    fees are low, much lower than lessons in music, and while many parents are anxious to have their
                    daughters study music, and willing to pay fifty and seventy-five cents per lesson, they seem to
                    think even twenty-five cents a lesson for Drawing rather more than the worth of the importance of
                    the achievement. A very little observation and thought should convince every parent that their
                    daughter would use the skill of hand acquired in drawing, together with the cultivated ideas
                    induced, ten times in her everyday business to where she would her musical ability. Drawing is of
                    use in the kitchen or the parlor, the shop, or whilst traveling. It matures ideas and gives habits
                    of observation, which cannot be said of music."
            Mote had a succession of assistants who helped fill in backgrounds in portraits and assisted in
                    instruction in his school. Samantha Hankins came to 
                        Richmond
                     with him after five years in his 
                        Lebanon
                     studio and remained for four years. Temperamental differences made their association a
                    mixed pleasure, but when she left and he had no one with whom he could talk art he was almost
                    prostrated with loneliness, writing in his journal, "I must take it alone
                    henceforth… trying to become reconciled to my fate-but companionship in Art is one of the
                    dearest things on earth to me. … Would like she saw my last pictures."10
            
            Miss Hankins was followed by Sue Spence of Paxton, 
                        Illinois
                    . She was an able student and artist but so full of temper that the room in which she
                    worked came to be called Castle Thunder and retained that name long after she left 
                        Richmond
                     a year later. It was the sulking room for any who wanted to withdraw from the general
                    company. In his next assistant, Edith Adcock, he caught another Tartar, to use his own phrase. He
                    thought her fussy and incomprehensible. She did not get along well with students, and she was so
                    faultfinding that no landlady would keep her more than a few days. Lydia Jackson went to the
                    opposite extreme, with so little vitality and spirit that she was no company and of little help.11
            
            
               
                  10 Mote Journal, June 14 and 19, 1869.
               
                  11 Numerous references to Mote's assistants occur in his journals
                        from 1869 to 1871.
            
            
            Judging from his experiences, female artists of that day were strange and unstable creatures, or he
                    may have been only unfortunate. But he too was sometimes irascible, and always he was an exacting
                    taskmaster, so that he probably incited some of the trouble. With the passing of the years he and
                    Sue Spence forgot their differences, and Marcus remembered her only as a favorite student and a
                    capable artist. In 1877 he wrote in his journal, "Just got settled to painting & a
                    feeble knock & open the door & lo my poor long lost child Sue Spence." She
                    had been painting in 
                        California
                     and wanted Mote's comment on her work; but when he made an honest evaluation
                    "she got angry & talked in a manner to hurt my feelings." But again they
                    forgot the unpleasantness, and when Sue left two weeks later each gave the other one of his
                    paintings, after the fashion of fellow artists. Mote wrote in his journal, "My art child
                    Sue Spence has just left me for her home in 
                        Illinois
                    . May Divine Providence guide & protect her."12
            
            Mote's female pupils often impressed him as strange creatures. Because he had been reared in
                    a 
                        Quaker
                     home without sisters, the usual woman came from a background foreign to his experience
                    and no doubt behaved at times in ways he neither approved nor comprehended. At the same time he felt
                    it his duty to counsel and correct. On one occasion, his journal indicates, he "advised
                    more staid way of walking."13
            
            Sometimes he was an unwilling confidant. He refused to take any student of doubtful reputation. Two
                    of his pupils conspired to use his studio to see friends they were not permitted to see at home.
                    When they refused Mote's advice, he consulted weighty Friends about what course he should
                    follow; he also conferred with the "french priest" of one of the girls. Thereafter
                    he declined to give them further lessons. When he discontinued the school it was with relief, for he
                    felt "tireder after teaching than by any kind of painting I do."14
            
            
               
                  12 Mote Journal, April 4 and 16, 1877.
               
                  13
                        Ibid., January 2, 1877, and passim.
               
                  14
                        Ibid., March 24, 1871. The date for the discontinuation of the School of
                        Design cannot be definitely ascertained because of a la se in Mote's journal, but it
                        lasted at least from 1865 to 1877, as indicated by journal entries.
            
            
            No list of the students in the 
                        Richmond
                     School of Design has been found, but it is said to have included three who later became
                    physicians. A number were from out of town. At least three of his women students attained modest
                    reputations as artists in their home localities: Lucinda Bowers McDowell, who taught art at 
                        New Castle
                    ; Flora Stigleman of 
                        Centerville
                    , who had further training with eastern artists; and Mary Ellen Hinshaw Branson of 
                        Knightstown
                    , who received $25.00 for each portrait.15 Probably most
                    of his students became housewives or artisans.
            Several of his students became professional artists. One was his nephew, William Alden Mote, who
                    later studied under William H. Hilliard and Barton S. Hays. Alden Mote painted landscapes and
                    portraits, including a large portrait of Daniel Reid which hangs in Reid Memorial Hospital in 
                        Richmond
                     and one of Edna Stubbs Cathell, now at Earlham College. He has portraits also at
                    William Penn College, Oskaloosa, 
                        Iowa
                    , and many of his paintings may be found in the country surrounding 
                        Richmond
                    .16
            
            Pliny Kersey, one of the students on the eastern sketching tour, was headed toward the profession
                    when he died of tuberculosis in 
                        California
                     in 1873. Other students who became professional artists were Elwood Morris and John
                    Seaford. Morris was known chiefly for landscapes in oil and Seaford for pastels of 
                        Richmond
                     scenes. Both helped form the 
                        Richmond
                     School of artists in the last decade of the century.17
            
            The most famous of the artists who studied under Mote, although for only a month in 1873, was Eli
                    Harvey, now ninety-five years of age and living in 
                  Alhambra, California
               . Known
                    chiefly as a sculptor of wild animals, he is represented in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 
                        New York
                    , the Museum of Fine Arts in 
                        St. Louis
                    , the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Museum of Art, and others in this country and abroad. For the Eaton Mausoleum in 
                        Toronto
                     he executed a pair of large lions; he did all the sculptures for the Lion House at the 
                        New York
                     Zoological Park; and he sculptured the elk which became the symbol for the Order of
                    Elks. After his first lessons under 
                  
                     15 Peat, Pioneer Painters of Indiana, 99, 103.
                  
                     16 See also ibid., 94.
                  
                     17 Much information on these men is common knowledge in 
                                Richmond
                            , where there are numerous examples of their work, many news-pa er references,
                            and the like. A series of articles concerning Kersey and his sketches of 
                                Richmond
                             scenes appeared in the 
                        
                                    Richmond
                                 Palladium-item, November 5-16, 1950. See also Peat, Pioneer Painters of Indiana 96
               
                     Mote, he studied at the Academy of Fine Arts in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and also in 
                        Paris
                    . He has exhibited paintings and sculpture at various salons and expositions in Europe
                    and in the 
                        United States
                    , receiving many medals.18
            
            Harvey himself has told the story of how he came to study art, his association with Mote, and his
                    impressions of his first art teacher: "While in my teens [thirteen] I attended one of the
                    Friends Quarterly Meetings at 
                        Wilmington
                     [
                        Ohio
                    ]. It was announced that on the following day a distinguished artist from 
                        Richmond
                    , a 
                        Quaker
                    , would be present to give a chalk talk lesson on some Bible character. I need not tell
                    you I was there, ‘present early’ in choice seat, center, facing platform.
                    … I was all eyes and expectancy, eager to see a real artist, not just pictured in prints
                    and with written descriptions of beings that might be termed super-men, with heroic statures,
                    flowing beards and shaggy locks. Then Marcus came in. I saw a man of unimposing stature, about
                    5' 2", past middle life, clean shaven face, light brown hair, considerably grayed,
                    blue eyes, a ruddy healthy complexion, plump cheeks void of wrinkles, and serene brow. He walked
                    nimbly and talked glibly. Standing before the blackboard with a box of crayons nearby, he addressed
                    the large assembly with a few preliminary remarks, then proceeded to draw while talking.
                    … I can't recall a single word he said nor drawing he made, but I can yet see
                    him as he made his entrance and exit, wearing a dark brown smock that made him look like
                    somebody's grandmother, well preserved for her age."19
            
            Feeling a great desire to study art, the boy visited the art school in 
                        Cincinnati
                     but found that the tuition was $85.00 a year, discouraging information for a
                    farm boy of limited means. With his father's consent he wrote to Mote to see what the
                    latter could offer in the way of art education. Mote replied: "That there may be no
                    misunderstanding between us I will write thee terms and conditions. Our home is a plain brick house.
                    Thee may have a bed room up stairs and have meals with us in the dining room down stairs. Rhoda, my
                    wife, will board thee and take care of thy bedroom. She will cook for thee breakfast, dinner and
                    supper, which will be plain but substantial food, every day of the week including First Day. Our
                    charge for board and lessons will be 
                  
                     18
                            Who's Who in America, 1950-1951, p. 1165.
                  
                     19 Eli Harvey to Aka Harvey Heiser, 
                        Alhambra, California
                     , October 17, 1948. This letter is the property of his
                            cousin, a resident of 
                        Hamilton, Ohio
                     . Harvey was a birthright 
                                Quaker
                            , born at 
                        Ogden, Ohio
                     .
               
                     $4.00 a week, payable in advance. My studio is
                    within walking distance down town on Main Street. If thee decides to come thee can walk with me to
                    the studio when I open the door. On First Days thee can accompany me to the Friends Meeting in the
                    large building where the Indiana Yearly Meeting is held. I forgot to tell thee that the charge above
                    quoted does not include art material. Bring thy box of paints. I have easels."20
            
            So Eli Harvey became a pupil of Marcus Mote, who set him to copying colored prints. He was so
                    homesick that at the end of the month he returned home; there he remained until he was nineteen,
                    when he entered the art school in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Since Mote did not keep a journal at this time, no record remains of his opinion of
                    the boy who lived in his home, spent a month in his studio, and was to become the most famous of his
                    students.
            Mote knew that in 1864 the public schools of 
                        Cincinnati
                     had added art to their curriculum. As the leading art center in the Middle West it was
                    natural that 
                        Cincinnati
                     should lead in making art training as available to students as any other branch of
                    learning. Mote published an article in the Richmond Weekly Telegram, April 27,
                    1867, stating his belief that the public schools should train students "for all that is
                    civil and useful." Since the ability to draw is useful, he argued, often even necessary, to
                    a mechanic, and since a knowledge of the principles of art is of great advantage to a housewife, it
                    followed that art should be taught in the public schools.
            Mote was aware of the opposition of the Quakers to the fine arts, but in following art as a vocation,
                    in acting as an art teacher in his private school, and in advocating the teaching of art in the
                    public schools, he thought of himself as a good 
                        Quaker
                     who differed only in interpretation. Had not George Fox instructed his followers to
                    teach the young all that was civil and useful in creation? Therefore his task was to persuade the
                    Quakers and the general public that a knowledge of art was civil and useful. In his heart he knew
                    that in thus making art of use to others man could find personal happiness, and that even fine art
                    had a high level of usefulness, though it usually brought, in the words of Ruskin, only bitter bread
                    and salt and going up and down other people's stairs.
            
               
                  20 This information was supplied by Eli Harvey in a letter to the author
                        dated December 7, 1950.
            
            
            For these reasons Mote continued his campaign to raise the level of art appreciation and instruction
                    in 
                        Richmond
                    . On August 22, 1868, another article on the subject appeared in the 
                  
                            Richmond
                         Telegram. It was unsigned, but Mote's journal entry on August 19
                    indicated that he was the author: "It is generally conceded that schools are intended to
                    prepare the pupil for the active duties of adult life. Is this strictly true of our present system?
                    Are not pupils taught many things they never have any use for in after life, and are not some things
                    entirely omitted which are of primary importance? Among the last, which is almost or entirely
                    omitted in our schools, is practical drawing. A knowledge of Drawing, it must be admitted, is of use
                    in all of the necessary details of life. Drawing gives the pupil a knowledge of form, size and
                    proportion, and will assist the future woman as housekeeper, shopkeeper, lecturer, teacher, etc.;
                    and to the future man it is almost indispensable, whether as architect, builder, mechanic, merchant
                    or farmer. Then why is Drawing omitted? Can any one of our educators tell? I pause for a
                    reply."
            A year later Mote carried his concern directly to the supertendent of schools and to the mayor. An
                    act of the Indiana legislature of 1865 had authorized schools to make additions to a specified list
                    of subjects under certain conditions. The superintendent and the mayor did not believe the demand
                    was sufficient in 1869 to justify action on Mote's concern.21
            
            His next move was directed at the general public, a campaign of propaganda to increase the demand for
                    the teaching of art. He had hundreds of circulars printed at his own expense and personally
                    distributed them. These called attention specifically to the need of apprentices in the furniture
                    factories for training in drawing. It is likely that he hoped to be the teacher for such a class,
                    independent of the public school system. He realized that he did not have the technical training
                    which would be required by school boards for teaching an accredited class. A class for apprentices
                    did not materialize, however.22
            
            Throughout the summer of 1872 the artist visited various 
                        Richmond
                     factories to secure signatures to a petition to the school trustees for evening schools
                    for drawing. He 
                  
                     21 Mote Journal October 27 and 29, 1869. See also Laws of
                                Indiana, 1865, p. 32.
                  
                     22 Mote Journal, Journal, May 26-27, 1871.
               
                     supplemented the list by going up and down the streets
                    soliciting signatures. On September 24 he appeared by appointment before the assembled trustees and
                    presented the list, which had grown to the imposing length of ten feet. To reinforce the request, he
                    submitted a statement to the 
                  
                            Richmond
                         Palladium: "We understand the mechanics of most of the machine shops
                    of this city have taken the subject in hand to have free evening drawing Schools in this city this
                    coming autumn and winter, and to effect their object have been obtaining the signatures of most of
                    our intelligent citizens, without regard to sect or politics, to a petition addressed to our
                    respected and vigilant School Trustees asking them to open such evening schools. And that the
                    petition having reached the length of about ten feet, was presented to the School Trustees at their
                    last sitting. It is a subject of general interest to our entire city, and is a move in the right
                    direction to enable our mechanics to compete with those of other manufacturing cities, and we have
                    no doubt our School Trustees, being men of public spirit and intelligence, will see it in that
                        light."23 The gratuitous flattery attributing superior intelligence
                    and public spirit to those in power, to be proved by granting the petition, did not have the desired
                    effect, and no action was taken.24
            
            Meanwhile Mote had been authorized by the 
                  
                            Richmond
                         Independent to write for it a report of the Earlham College commencement
                    scheduled for June 26, 1872. His two-column story gave a synopsis of the speech made by each of the
                    seven graduates, with critical comments on the manner of delivery. He reported also the content of
                    the addresses by President Joseph Moore and by Timothy Nicholson, president of the board of
                    trustees. Having the floor, he could not forgo the opportunity to bring in his own favorite thesis:
                    "Only one omission was observed to make the occasion equal to any performance of other
                    College exercises, as regards appearance or usefulness. It is a matter of regret to many friends and
                    patrons of Earlham College that she, so thorough in everything else, should year after year graduate
                    young 
                  
                     23 Mote's journal on September 20, 1872, told the story of
                            getting signatures for the ten-foot petition to be presented to the school trustees by
                            appointment "3rd day eve at 7 or a little after," i.e., September 24,
                            1872. The article appearing in the 
                        
                                    Richmond
                                 Palladzurn on September 28, 1872, was signed only "A
                            Citizen." Although there is no reference to it in the Mote journal there can be no
                            doubt that he was the author, since it is his characteristic phraseology and his concern.
                            There is no evidence that anyone else in 
                                Richmond
                             had any particular interest in the matter or was writing about it.
                  
                     24 Neither Mote's journal nor local newspapers made further
                            reference to the matter.
               
                     men and young women and send them out in the world to fill
                    posts of usefulness, not fully fitted and prepared for their duties. That Drawing and Designing have
                    been almost entirely omitted in the course of study is to be lamented. … This hint we
                    hope will be kindly taken by whomsoever it may concern, and we hope with profit."25
            
            Ten years were to pass before Mote saw his wish come true for Earlham. He had to wait fourteen years
                    for art to be introduced into the public school curriculum. Authentic information as to further
                    steps taken and Mote's connection with them is lacking, but tradition gives him credit for
                    the achievement, not only in 
                        Richmond
                     but in Indiana. In 1886, when Justin N. Study was superintendent of schools for the
                    city, art became part of the curriculum and has been taught continuously since that time.26
            
            According to an article in the Indianapolis Journal by a reporter who visited the
                    old artist, then nearly eighty years old, Mote "secured the petition which caused the
                    legislature to provide that the public schools of Indiana should teach drawing. The petition was
                    presented by Sen. William Baxter, since deceased. Two years previously the 
                        Quaker
                     artist had secured the teaching of drawing in the public schools of 
                        Richmond
                     by ordinance."27 Inasmuch as William Baxter's
                    terms of service in the legislature were in 1875 and 1877, and since no such act was passed until
                    later after art teaching had become fairly general, the reporter seems to have made an inaccurate
                    statement. It may be that Mote related efforts he had made toward the passage of the act but may
                    have been confused about the sequence of events.
            Whatever the details may have been, there can be no doubt that in actively promoting the introduction
                    of art into the school curriculum and in giving art instruction in his own studio Mote was a local
                    prophet whose work, combined with that of others throughout the country, was responsible for the
                    general acceptance of art as a valuable field for general instruction.
            
               
                  25
                        
                     
                                Richmond
                             Independent, June 29, 1872.
               
                  26 According to Earlham catalogs, the first teacher of drawing and
                        painting at the college was Florence Chandlee in 1882-1883; followed by M. Gertrude Bailey,
                        1883-1887; Harry D. Williams, 1887-1888; and John Elwood Bundy, 1888-1896, who built up the art
                        de artment to a high level of excellence. The 
                     
                                Richmond
                             Evening Item, ieptember 11, 1886, published a list of public school
                        teachers in 1886-1887, including the name of Mary E. Johnson as the first supervisor and teacher
                        of drawing.
               
                  27 Reprinted in the 
                     
                                Richmond
                             Palladium-Item, December 29, 1943; the date of the original publication
                        was probably in the early 1890's.
            
         
         
         
            The Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation: The First Twenty-Five Years
            
                    Arthur R. Hogue
                    *
                
            The Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation celebrates in 1955 the twenty-fifth anniversary of its founding.
                    A quarter-century of sustained effort to promote American-German relations and cultural exchange
                    provides sufficient evidence for an appraisal of its work, even though the foundation operates in
                    the area of intangibles.
            Ultimately such a foundation must depend upon the deep, possibly obscure, emotions and attitudes of
                    those who support it. In the 
                        United States
                     citizens of German birth ordescent have often felt a need for an understanding of their
                    inherited culture. This may seem strange at first glance, because approximately six million Germans
                    came to the 
                        United States
                     between 1820 and 1945. Exceeding the immigration from any other European country, by
                    weight of numbers alone the German stock might be expected to make its way easily in America. But
                    this has not always been true.
            Certainly no serious student of American history can long overlook the impress on life in the 
                        United States
                     made by citizens of German origin. Their contributions to music and to the arts stand
                    out as clearly as their energy and good sense in business. German skill in agriculture is
                    proverbial. Germans also leave their mark in public life, as the career of Carl Schurz abundantly
                    illustrates. It is their own tragedy, however, that three times, at least, since the middle of the
                    nineteenth century the German citizens have been thrown in upon themselves and have been put on the
                    defensive about their origins: first, by a nativist movement of the 1850's expressed in the
                    Know Nothing party; again, seriously, during World War I; and finally, in a different way, during
                    World War II. Today, paradoxically, only a few years after a war with 
                        Germany
                    , the 
                        United States
                     enjoys the most cordial relations with 
                        West Germany
                     and the door is open wide to a friendly understanding of Germans wherever they live.
                    The present situation is precisely what the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation seeks to encourage
                    through a cultural, non-political approach to the problems of American-German 
                  
                     * Arthur R. Hogue is associate professor of history at
                            Indiana University.
               
                     understanding. Even a brief glance at the specific projects of
                    the foundation during the past twenty-five years reveals its guiding policies in action.
            On June 12, 1930, in 
                        New York
                    , seven men filed the certificate of incorporation of the Carl Schurz Memorial
                    Foundation with the intent of developing American-German friendship and promoting cultural exchange
                    between the two nations. The organization grew out of enthusiasm and funds supplied by more than one
                    hundred men whose thoughts were turned toward a memorial by the centenary celebration of the birth
                    of Carl Schurz, 1829-1906.
            Leadership and large gifts came from such men as Ferdinand Thun, industrialist, and his associates,
                    Gustav Oberlaender and Henry Janssen; George McAneny, attorney and political figure; Stephen Duggan,
                    of the Institute of International Education; and Paul M. Warburg, banker. A continuing element in
                    the character of the foundation emerges from an unofficial connection with the Society of Friends.
                    Wilbur K. Thomas brought to the direction of the foundation his experience in war relief with the
                    American Friends Service Committee. His successor as the foundation's executive director,
                    the late Howard W. Elkinton, also represented the 
                        Quaker
                     approach to problems of international understanding. The 
                        Quaker
                     influence has meant that the foundation would act in a direct, personal way.
            The organization weathered the catastrophes of a great depression and a world war. This speaks well
                    for its strength and the character of its direction. If it had not been strong the depression would
                    have wiped it out; if it had indulged in chauvinism or irresponsible action the war with 
                        Germany
                     would have closed its doors. Although the depression, the rise of the Nazis, and the
                    world war all impaired it functions, the foundation went steadily forward.
            From the outset the foundation administered several distinct funds. Notable among these were the
                    Oberlaender Trust of approximately a million dollars, the Henry Janssen Foundation, and the Thun
                    Foundation. These resources have been strengthened, of course, by additional gifts and
                    subscriptions.
            As a beginning the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation subsidized the trans-Atlantic exchange of students
                    and established scholars. Books as well as people crossed the 
                    Atlantic with foundation grants: for example, in 1936 sixty American libraries received German books
                    purchased out of foundation funds and ten German libraries were supplied with American scientific
                    journals and literary works.
            The American-German Review, published bimonthly since 1938, first appeared in
                    September, 1934, as a quarterly presenting the work of the foundation to the public. Richly
                    illustrated, particularly in the field of art, it has always carried something in the German
                    language as well as articles in English. An important feature of this journal is the annual
                    publication of bibliography of Americana Germanica which began in 1941 under the guidance of A. E.
                    Zucker, as research director. At its home in the Old Customs House near Independence Hall in 
                        Philadelphia
                     the foundation maintains a catalogue of more than 75,000 items for the assistance of
                    scholars working in American-German studies. The annual bibliography in the Review
                    serves to keep this catalog up-to-date.
            By exhibits at the Old Customs House or on tour, the foundation has endeavored to present German art
                    to the American public; perhaps the most comprehensive survey of German painting ever shown in this
                    country was brought to the 
                        United States
                     in 1936 illustrating the range of German art from the fifteenth to the nineteenth
                    centuries.
            Transplanted German culture has also received attention. During World War II, when relations with 
                        Germany
                     had broken down, the foundation supported such projects as the Landis
                    Valley Museum near 
                  Lancaster, Pennsylvania
               , where 
                        Pennsylvania
                    -Dutch art and furniture have been collected and exhibited.
            Since the study of the German language had come under a frowning hostility in American schools and
                    colleges after 1917, the foundation sought to change this attitude. Encouraging the study of German
                    literature and the Muttersprache has been a steady aim to the foundation, which
                    has often made available to American libraries such works as the collected writings of Goethe.
            Not all of the foundation's projects have been so academic. Its grants have helped doctors,
                    social workers, city-planners, chemists, foresters, and many other people whose specialties could be
                    advanced by a period of residence and travel in 
                        Germany
                    . Gustav Oberlaender particularly favored  grants
                    which would lead Americans to become better acquainted with work being done by Germans of similar
                    interests. Occasionally, therefore, German specialists have been brought to the 
                        United States
                    : for example, Franz Heske, an authority on forestry. His book, German
                        Forestry, and the volume of Karl Dannecker, Forest Manager, were both
                    translated into English and published with subsidies from the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation.1
            
            As much as a fourth of the foundation's expenditures assisted refugees from the Nazi
                    régime. Many of these people came to the 
                        United States
                    , where the foundations helped them to become established. Money and encouragement have
                    also gone into 
                        Germany
                     since the end of the war, when conditions entirely new confronted American-German
                    relations. If heretofore the foundation had been primarily interested in cultural exchange, it now
                    began to meet some of the needs of a stunned and apathetic people. The American medical missions to 
                        Germany
                     and the Free University of Berlin are only two of many postwar projects partially
                    subsidized. Assistance with the restoration of the Goethe Haus rebuilt a national shrine in 
                        Frankfurt
                    . A visiting artist program brought American musicians to a music-loving people. An
                    exhibit of American art showed the Germans what American painters were doing. As Ambassador James B.
                    Conant has pointed out, the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation could select objectives and move with
                    speed, unencumbered by the restrictions which often surround governmental action. The implications
                    of assistance rendered by private organization are worth noting; acting on its own initiative, an
                    American organization treated the Germans, recently enemies of the 
                        United States
                    , as a civilized people with their own cultural institutions and monuments, and as a
                    people fully capable of reciprocity in a cultural exchange. Ten years of practice have made the
                    wisdom of this policy quite apparent, for the Germans have responded warmly to American interest.
            While reviewing the first quarter-century of the operations of the Carl Schurz Memorial Foundation,
                    it is difficult to point out large, serious mistakes in policies or action. 
                  
                     1 Franz Heske, Germun Foreshy, tr. A. B. Recknagel (
                                New Haven
                            , 1938); Karl Dannecker, The Forest Manager, tr. Arthur O.
                            Weidelich (
                                Washington
                            , 1939).
               
                     One is reduced to petty criticisms. It is a very minor defect
                    that material in the American-German Review is sometimes uneven in quality; the
                        Review serves in a lively way the aims of its publishers without indulging in
                    political bias, hysterical excitement, or pedantry. By scrupulously avoiding the discussion of
                    political issues, foundation publications might be charged with indifference toward them; however,
                    the very substantial assistance of half a million dollars given to refugees from the Nazi government
                    does not look like indifference on the part of the foundation. And certainly the foundation cannot
                    be charged with a lack of policy in the area of international relations. To say that its work is
                    simple and direct and personal, that it touches individual Germans and Americans, that it promotes
                    cultural exchange—this does not rob it of significance. After the expenditure of far less
                    money than the cost of one large bomber the foundation can point to an imposing list of activities
                    which have done nothing to harm, and most certainly have helped to create good relations with
                    Germans in Europe and a friendly awareness of German achievement within the United states.
         
         
         
            Editor's Page
            As the Magazine goes to press the program for the annual Indiana History Conference
                    is not available. The conference, however, is scheduled for 
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 9-10. Details regarding program and meeting places may be found in the
                    November issue of the Indiana History Bulletin which is regularly mailed to all
                    members of the Indiana Historical Society.
            If all goes well this issue of the Magazine should reach you in advance of the
                    Conference. In fact, a schedule has been established with the printer which will normally make it
                    possible for the Magazine to be received by subscribers during the first week of
                    the months in which it appears.
         
         
         
            The Location of Indiana Towns and Cities
            
                    Stephen S. Visher
                    *
                
            The reasons for which each town was established where it was and what conditions favored its growth
                    are significant aspects of local history. Most Indiana towns started as trading or exchange centers
                    for the people of their locality. Consequently, when most Hoosiers lived near the Whitewater, the 
                        Ohio
                    , or the lower 
                        Wabash
                    , most towns were located in those areas. A number, however, were established along
                    early routes partly to serve travelers, some near the crossing of rivers, others at convenient
                    distances between older and often larger settlements. In the early years when the 
                        Ohio
                     and lower 
                        Wabash
                     were major routes of travel, villages and towns were located on their banks at points
                    having some local advantage, such as higher, better-drained land, or the presence of a tributary
                        valley.1
            
            By 1830 more than three dozen towns were established on the Ohio River,
                    including 
                  Lawrenceburg, Aurora
               , Rising Sun, 
                  Vevay, Madison, Jeffersonville, New Albany, Cannelton
               , Tell City, 
                  Rockport, Newburgh,
                            Evansville
               , and 
                  Mount Vernon. Madison
                was Indiana's largest town in 1830, second in 1840, third
                    in 1850, and seventh in 1860. 
                        New Albany
                     was the state's largest urban center in 1840 and 1850, while 
                        Evansville
                     was the second city from 1870 to 1900, then third to 1920. On the lower 
                        Wabash
                     was 
                        Vincennes
                    , the oldest town in Indiana and territorial capital from 1800 to 1813, third largest in
                    1830, possibly tenth in 1850, and thirteenth in 1870. Nearer the mouth of the 
                        Wabash
                     was 
                        New Harmony
                    , highly significant in the 1820's and culturally important for decades. North
                    of 
                        Vincennes
                     was Teme Haute, fourth or fifth city from 1870 to 1920. On the upper 
                  Wabash, Lafayette, Logansport, Peru, Wabash
               , and 
                        Huntington
                     became sizable during the late 1830's and the 1840's, when the 
                  
                     * Stephen S. Visher is professor of geography at Indiana
                            University.
                  
                     1 There were few towns in much of south central and central Indiana
                            until after 1825, and few in northern Indiana until after 1840; indeed, considerable parts
                            of northwestern Indiana had few towns until after 1850. See Indiana, a Guide to
                                the Hoosier State (
                                New York
                            , 1941), passim; Indiana Review, Pictorial, Political,
                            Historical (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1938), 286-382; John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana… (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, 418; R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest, Pioneer
                                Period, 1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950), passim.
               
                    
                    
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                     Canal was being constructed. 
                        Lafayette
                    , at the head of steamboat navigation on the 
                        Wabash
                    , was the state's fourth city in 1850. Many a village was established where a
                    stream could be crossed by a ford, ferry, or bridge. Examples are 
                  Jeffersonville, New Albany, Rockport, Evansville,
                            Vincennes, Newport, Williamsport
               , Gosport, 
                        Lafayette
                    , and 
                        Logansport
                    .2
            
            The presence of potential waterpower was a significant influence in locating numerous grist, flour,
                    and saw mills, and in the growth of a village nearby. For instance, the settlement that grew into 
                        Evansville
                     reputedly started because of the availability of a mill site on Pigeon Creek, which
                    flows into the 
                        Ohio
                     there. Other settlements which grew up near waterpower sites include
                            
                  New Albany, Elkhart, South Bend, Mishawaka
               , and 
                        Logansport
                    .3
            
            Since few Indiana springs yielded enough water to supply several homes, few villages grew up by such
                    springs; however, two that did grow into cities were 
                        Huntington
                     at Flint Springs and French Lick, by a spring of mineral water.4
            
            Water supplies from streams helped establish many early settlements and have been highly significant
                    in the growth of most Indiana towns. In recent decades the runoff from numerous streams has been
                    retarded by dams, creating reservoirs of great value for urban water supplies. Lake
                        Michigan was a major factor as to the cities thereon, important as a source of water
                    and as a transportation barrier as 
                  
                     2 While these population statistics may be traced through the various
                            decennial census returns, they are conveniently summarized in Seventeenth
                                Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1950, Population, I, Part 14, pp. 9-10. See also Stephen S. Visher,
                            "Indiana Population Changes, 1840-1940," Indiana Academy of Science Proceedings (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1891-), LI (1942), 179-193, and his "
                                Indiana County
                             Contrasts in Population Changes," ibid., LIII
                            (1944), 139-143; Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (3rd ed.; 2 vols., 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1924), II, 980-981; Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, I,
                            418-419; John Scott, Indiana Gazetteer or Topographical Dictionary (
                                Centerville
                            , 1826), 77; Eleanore A. Cammack, "Notes on Wabash
                            River Steamboating: Early Lafayette," Indiana Magazine of
                                Histoly (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1905-), L (1954), 36-50; Elbert J. Benton, "The 
                                Wabash
                             Trade Route in the Development of the Old Northwest," Johns Hopkins
                            University Studies an Historical and Political Science (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1882-), XXI (1903), 9-31; James R. Anderson, "White
                            River—Historical Influences Observed in 
                                Morgan County
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIII (1947),
                            241-250.
                  
                     3 Bernard H. Schockel, Manufactural Evansville,
                            1820-1933 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1947), 114. Handbook of Indiana Geology (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922), 48-53. Stephen S. Visher, Economic Geography of
                            Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1923), 191-206.
                  
                     4 Visher, Economic Geography of Indiana, 196.
               
                     well as a highway. On the shores of numerous smaller lakes,
                    communities having a considerable recreational element have developed in recent decades.5
            
            Minerals played a minor role in locating towns in Indiana, for the state's output of gas,
                    oil, and coal came predominantly after the areas yielding these minerals were well peopled; however,
                    many places grew notably after mineral wealth was exploited, as in the coalfields of the western and
                    especially the southwestern parts of the state. Towns in the east central area which yielded
                    relatively large amounts of gas and petroleum in the late 1880's and 1890's
                    boomed. Moreover, the exploitation of limestone has notably stimulated city growth in the 
                        Bedford
                    -
                        Bloomington
                     limestone belt, and locally elsewhere, as for example near Monon, 
                        Mitchell
                    , and Speeds.6
            
            Local topographic advantages notably affected the start and growth of most Indiana villages and towns
                    except those on essentially level land. 
                        Terre Haute
                     is, as its name declares, on relatively high land, on the Wabash
                    River, as are also 
                  New Harmony,
                            Vincennes
               , and 
                        Lafayette
                    . Most other towns along rivers are on land less subject to flood than are nearby
                    tracts. Numerous other towns are in valleys. Valleys had increased significance in this respect when
                    railways were built, as many railways follow valleys. In contrast, most of the early trails and many
                    early roads followed uplands and drainage divides so far as feasible, as the crossing of even small
                    streams was often difficult before bridges were built.7 Railways could come only
                    after bridges were constructed.
            
               
                  5 John B. Appleton, "The Iron and Steel Industry of the Calumet
                        District," University of 
                            Illinois
                        
                        Studies in the Social Sciences (
                            Urbana
                        , 1912-), XIII (1925), 181-314; Visher, Economic Geography of Indiana,
                            passim; Indiana Review, passim.
               
                  6 Esarcy, History of Indiana, II, 900-904, 907-915; Handbook of Indiana Geology, 795-1026; Visher, Economic Geography
                            of Indiana, 52-72, 150-163; Indiana, A Guide to the Hoosier State,
                        88-90; Joseph A. Batchelor, An Economic History of the Indiana Oolitic Limestone
                            Industry (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1944).
               
                  7 Harlow Lindley (ed.), Indiana as Seen by Early
                        Travelers (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), passim; this is vol. III of the Indiana Historical Collections. George R. Wilson, "Early Indiana Trails and
                        Surveys," Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1895-), VI (1919), 349-357; Logan Esarey, "Internal Improvements in Early
                        Indiana," ibid., V (1911), 47-158; George R. Wilson and Gayle
                        Thorn-brough, "The Buffalo Trace," ibid., XV (1945),
                        183-246; Esarey History of Indiana, II, 714-737; Elfrieda Lang,
                        "Conditions of Travel Experienced by German Immigrants to 
                            DuBois County
                        , Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XLI (1945),
                        327-344, mentions various difficulties of early travel and maps the chief early trails and
                        roads.
            
            
            Local topographic features of scenic prominence played only a small role in establishing towns in
                    Indiana. Grand View on the 
                        Ohio
                     is the best example. 
                        Vevay
                     was established in 1803 by immigrants who were attracted by the resemblance of the area
                    to that of their home town, 
                  Vevay, Switzerland. Palestine, Lawrence County
               , was established on a hilltop commanding
                    so fine a view that its promoters expected it to be the chief town of the county. But the fine view
                    did not compensate for relative inaccessibility by road and for inadequate water supply. Hence,
                    after an epidemic, Palestine lost the county seat and soon became a "ghost town."
                    Scenic features have, however, stimulated the growth of towns near the state parks, and Marengo
                    Cave.
            Numerous villages and towns grew up where early roads or railways crossed or converged. Most of the
                    towns which have grown into cities are served by more than one railway, and by several roads. Hence
                    conditions that conspicuously affected the location of roads and railways help to locate numerous
                    towns.
            Railway towns are necessarily located on railroads, most of which were planned to connect certain
                    cities, for example, 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                  St. Louis, Cincinnati
                and 
                  Chicago, Cleveland
                and
                            
                  Chicago, Cleveland
                and 
                  St.
                        Louis, Chicago
                and 
                        Louisville
                    . Although railway location in Indiana strongly reflects that major objective, a
                    considerable number of lines were deflected to serve established Indiana cities, notably 
                        Indianapolis
                    , or sizable areas ill-served by other railways. 
                        Indianapolis
                     had eight railways in 1854.8 Topography caused some deflections;
                    for example, the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     line across southern Indiana follows for some distance the valley of the East Fork of
                        White River. Likewise the Monon from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     follows for a considerable distance in southern Indiana the less rugged
                    "limestone belt." Similarly, the Wabash Valley is followed
                    locally both in central and in southwestern Indiana. Details of the location of railway towns
                    reflect also the federal land survey system by which the land was subdivided into townships and
                        sections.9 This survey was significant partly because many roads were laid
                    out on section or half-section lines, and most titles to real 
                  
                     8 Roger H. Van Bolt, "Fusion Out of Confusion,
                            1864," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIX (1963), 353.
                  
                     9
                            Handbook of Indiana Geology, 48-53.
               
                     estate strongly reflect the survey. Moreover, it was widely
                    considered desirable to have the town center well within a township rather than divided by township
                    lines. This was partly because most survey townships became units of civil government, including
                    units for schools and assessment for taxes.
            The numerous villages established on roads owe their location in a fundamental respect partly to the
                    location of the roads. When roads were first laid out, most were local, township, or county roads.
                    Except in the most rugged areas, a predominant percentage of their milage was along section lines,
                    or half-section lines of the federal land survey. Most streets of towns were also laid out with
                    respect to the federal land survey lines. Hence an understanding of the locations of Indiana towns
                    is augmented by knowledge of the land survey system. For all of the state except small areas at the
                    southeast (especially Clark's Grant) and southwest (the 
                        Vincennes
                     lands), the survey base used was an east-west line located six miles south of Paoli in 
                        Orange County
                    , from which the townships were surveyed and numbered northward and southward. The
                    north-south base line, called the principal meridian or the range line, is just east of Paoli. From
                    it the townships are numbered east and west.10 For example, 
                        Lafayette
                     is in Township 23 north, Range 4 west.
            More than half of the 92 county seat towns and cities of Indiana were planned as county capitals.
                    Many additional townsites were laid out in the hope of their being chosen as county seat, but when
                    another site was selected, most of them failed to develop. Centrality in the county was an important
                    factor as to county seats; repeatedly it was specified in the legislative act creating the new
                    county. Hence the location of the county boundaries helped locate many Indiana towns and cities.
                    Most of Indiana's counties are approximately 20 miles square. This size was popular when
                    most of the counties were established partly because it was possible for a taxpayer to travel from
                    the margin of a county of that size to a centrally located county seat and return the same day. This
                    would not have been feasible then from the margins of a notably larger county. Counties considerably
                        
                  
                     10 George Pence and Nellie Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries,
                                Territory, State, and County (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 145; this is vol. XIX of the Indiana Historical Collections.
               
                     smaller than 400 square miles were impracticable because the
                    taxes collectable then from a notably smaller area would have been insufficient to pay the legally
                    prescribed salaries forthe various county officers. In those years local taxes were predominantly on
                    real estate, little of which had much value, as money was scarce. Moreover, there was a
                    constitutional provision against reducing existing counties below 400 square miles in area. Counties
                    were not much larger than 400 square miles also partly because of the active desire of the people of
                    each sizable area to have their own local county government and a nearby county seat.11
            
            The struggle between rival sites to obtain the county seat was often fierce. In addition to
                    centrality, important considerations were relative quality of the land, the number of settlers,
                    local advantages such as water supply, and at least fair drainage. Important also in numerous cases
                    was an offer by the townsite owners to donate a suitable tract of land for the courthouse in case
                    that townsite was selected.12
            
            If with the growth of population a city not centrally located and not the county seat became
                    sufficiently large, the county capital was generally shifted thereto. Two striking examples are 
                        Jeffersonville
                     getting the county seat from 
                        Charlestown
                     in 1878, and 
                        Richmond
                     getting it from 
                        Centerville
                     in 1873. Both 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     are on the margin of their county. In 
                        Lake County
                    , the county seat has continued at centrally located 
                        Crown Point
                     despite the fact that most of the county's people live in the northern part of
                    the county. The rivalry between 
                  Gary, East Chicago
               , and 
                        Hammond
                     has so far prevented the northward shift of the county seat. An example of the
                    relocation of a county seat to a more central location is afforded by 
                        Madison County
                    , where Anderson replaced Pendleton in 1827.13
            
            
               
                  11
                        Ibid., 83 and, passim; Ernest V. Shockley, "County
                        Seats and County Seat Wars", Indiana Magazine of History, X (1914),
                        44-46.
               
                  12 Numerous examples of these struggles are reported in county histories
                        and in Shockley, "County Seats and County Seat Wars," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, 1-46.
               
                  13
                        Indiana, A Guide to the Hoosier State, 340, 391; Fence and Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries, 286, 850, 574.
            
         
         
         
            Documents: A Letter of Albert Parker Niblack
            
                    Carolyn Thomas Foreman
                    *
                
            Albert Parker Niblack, son of William E.1 and Eliza Sherman Niblack, was born in 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, July 25, 1859. Appointed to the United States Naval Academy, he was graduated
                    in 1880.
            Niblack had a long career of valuable service in the Navy.2 He served on the
                    Pacific Station from 1880 to 1882 and on the survey and exploration of Alaska from 1884 to 1888.
                    From 1893 to 1896 he was a member of the staff of the Naval War College, and in 1890 and 1896 was
                    prize essayist at the Naval Institute. Then, until the outbreak of the Spanish-American War, he was
                    naval attaché at 
                  Berlin, Rome
               , and 
                        Vienna
                    . He served aboard the flagship "Olympia" at 
                        Manila
                     in 1898 and participated in the suppression of the Filipino insurrection, 1899-1901; he
                    was also in 
                        China
                     during the Boxer campaign in 1900.
            From 1904 to 1906 he commanded the U.S.S. "Iroquois," from 1907 to 1909 ships at
                    the Naval Academy, and from 1909 to 1910 the U.S.S. "Tacoma." Then followed
                    service at the American legation at 
                        Buenos Aires
                     from 1910 to 1911 and at the American embassy in 
                        Berlin
                     from 1911 to 1913. For the next three years he commanded the U.S.S. "
                        Michigan
                    ," and was present at the occupation of 
                        Vera Cruz
                    , Mexico, in April, 1914.
            During the First World War Niblack commanded Division I and later Squadron 1 of the Atlantic Fleet;
                    then Squadron 2, patrol force and 
                        United States
                     naval forces based on 
                  
                     * Carolyn Thomas Foreman (Mrs. Grant Foreman) is the
                            daughter of Judge John R. Thomas, who at the time the letter was written was a member of the
                            House of Representatives and of the Committee on Naval Affairs.
                  
                     1 William E. Niblack was born in 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana, May 19, 1822. He received a classical education, studied and
                            practiced law before he was elected to the state legislature, where he served several terms
                            in both branches, He was circuit judge from 1854 to 1859. Elected as a Democrat to the 35th
                            Congress to succeed Representative James Lockart, he was reelected to the 36th, 39th, 40th,
                            41st, 42nd, and 43rd congresses. He was a delegate to the Democratic national convention at 
                                Chicago
                             in 1864, at 
                                New York
                             in 1868, and 
                                St. Louis
                             in 1876. Biographical Directory of the American Congress,
                                1774-1949 (
                                Washington
                            , 1950), 1615.
                  
                     2 The following account is based on the biographical sketch in Who Was Who in America, 1897-1942 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1942), 895-896.
               
                    
                    
                        Gibraltar
                    ; and finally forces in the Western Mediterranean. Following the war he commanded forces
                    in the Adriatic. After serving from 1919 to 1920 as director of naval intelligence in the Navy
                    Department and as naval attaché in 
                        London
                     from 1920 to 1921, he became vice admiral in command of naval forces in European
                    waters. He retired in 1923.
            After his retirement he became a director of the International Hydrographic Bureau of 
                        Monaco
                     and was elected president in 1927 for a term of five years; he was vice-president of
                    the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers for twelve years. He died August 20, 1919, and
                    was buried in 
                        Arlington
                     National Cemetery.
            Niblack received the Distinguished Service Medal for services in World War I and thirteen foreign
                    decorations. Probably none of those great honors pleased him more than the commendation he received
                    from his own government for his rescue of the crew of the "Ocean King" when he was
                    only an ensign.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              U.S.C.S. Str "C.P. Patterson"
                              Portage Bay S. E. Alaska
                           
                                    Aug 2nd 1887
                                
                        My dear Mr. Thomas:3
                        
                        At last I have something that looks like a chance to write to you. We arrived on the
                                    working ground May 24th and since then I have been head over ears in work, good hard
                                    glorious work, but against the odds of the vilest weather I have ever seen. I have
                                    so much to write about the future that I hate to dip into the past but it may
                                    interest you to have an outline of it.
                        Last winter at the Navy Yard Mare Island [
                                        California
                                    ] the Coast Survey Office built a steam launch to take the 
                              
                                 3 John R. Thomas, a native of 
                                                Illinois
                                            , studied at Hunter Collegiate Institute, 
                                                Princeton
                                            , Indiana, and during the Civil War served in the 120th
                                            Regiment, Indiana Volunteer Infantry, rising from private to captain. After
                                            studying law, he became state's attorney from 1871 to 1874. He was
                                            elected as a Republican to the 46th Congress and succeeded himself through
                                            the 50th Congress. During that period he served on various committees,
                                            including that on naval affairs, and because of his deep interest in
                                            building up the defense of his country he was called "father of the
                                            modern American Navy." He was appointed federal judge in the Indian
                                            Territory, serving from 1897 to 1901. He died January 19, 1914. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1910. Who Was Who in America, 1897-1942, p. 1230.
                           
                                     place of the
                                    "Lively"—a worn out craft that has been up here for
                                    years. The new launch is 52 feet long, 12¢ feet beam, 4¢ feet
                                    draught & 23 tons displacement. She steams 9 knots and is fitted with
                                    cabins, deck house etc, like a small tug boat—which she looks just like.
                                    For all that she is very light and built for smooth inland waters—like
                                    most launches. The problem was how to get her up to Ft. Wrangell4 1500 miles distant. From Washington Territory (Puget Sound) the trip is
                                    mostly inland through the Alaska Excursion route. From 
                                        San Francisco
                                     to Puget Sound is a rock bound coast 700 miles—all the
                                    harbors having bars across their entrances which make them dangerous to enter in bad
                                    weather. The coal steamers wanted $2,000 to carry the launch to Puget
                                    Sound. The C[oast] S[urvey] Office had not the money. After some talk around the
                                    subject with nothing satisfactory I volunteered to take her up. To tell the real
                                    truth I had an idea that I would be ordered with some one senior
                                    to me. That would mean (that as I was familiar with the route) that I would take the
                                    risk without the credit. Then too I go on the principle—"any
                                    thing for a command".
                        Capt. Thomas5 joined us in April and he gave me charge of the
                                    preparations. I will say by the way that I never knew or sailed with a fairer
                                    better, more gentlemanly officer. Heleft every detail to me. I named her the
                                    "Cosmos" in honor of the Club in 
                                        San Francisco
                                     of which I am a member. In only one thing was I over-ruled, viz. I
                                    wanted to make my own way up buying coal, etc independently of the ship. The Office
                                    insisted on towing (as much to save coal as anything.) Now I wish
                                    to say right here that this letter is in strict confidence. The cool proposition was
                                    that the lives of two officers and five men should be risked (and an
                                    $8,500 launch) on the niggardly policy of trying to run a survey without
                                    half enough money. This policy is due of course to those 
                              
                                 4 Fort Wrangell was at Etolin Harbor on Wrangell
                                            Island, about 145 miles E.S.E. of Sitka.
                              
                                 5 Charles M. Thomas, born in 
                                                Philadelphia
                                             October 1, 1846, graduated from the Naval Academy in 1865. He
                                            advanced through various grades until he assumed command of the Coast Survey
                                            Steamer "Patterson" from 1887 to 1889. In 1907 he
                                            commanded the Second Atlantic Squadron; he died in 1908. Who
                                                Was Who in America, 1897-1942, p. 1228.
                           
                                     illustrious Democrats, Holman6 & Randall.7—Every thing was done by
                                    Thomas that could be done. I had a picked crew—two machinists and two
                                    seamen & a boy. Ensign Beecher,8 four years my junior
                                    was ordered with me, as were all the men.
                        I made every preparation I could. We had charts, a chronometer, extra coal, three
                                    weeks provisions, extra water, a sea anchor, and a turtle back built forward, etc,
                                    etc. We left 
                                        San Francisco
                                     May 4th at noon, the "Cosmos" in tow with a 7 inch
                                    hawser and a chain span—From the start we struck lumpy weather, but the
                                    "Cosmos" developed splendid sea qualities. The first night out it
                                    being rough, we swamped our only boat. The "Patterson" stopped to
                                    hoist the boat on board and Ensign Shipley9 was thrown in a sea
                                    way and broke his leg. The weather set in thick. I kept steam up in the
                                    "Cosmos" in case of accidents to use the steam pumps, etc. There
                                    were only two of us not sea sick from the lively motion. I was of course up a great
                                    deal of the time as the sea sick ones could do little. By Sat. morning May 7th it
                                    was blowing a gale from the southward right after us. The
                                    "Patterson" had had to steam slowly on account of danger of towing
                                    us under, but with the gale after her the strain on the hawser became terrific,
                                    especially as the sea was running very high. At 10 A.M. the hawser parted. I was
                                    prepared for it, and immediately steamed around head 
                              
                                 6 William S. Holman was born at a pioneer homestead
                                            called Veraestau in 
                                                Dearborn County
                                            , Indiana, September 6, 1822. After two years' study at
                                            Franklin College, he became a lawyer and served as probate judge from 1843
                                            to 1846. For the following two years he was prosecuting attorney, then a
                                            member of the constitutional convention of Indiana in 1850, and a member of
                                            the state legislature in 1851 and 1852. He was elected as a Democrat to the
                                            36th, 37th, 38th, 40th, and the four succeeding congresses; he was
                                            re-elected to the 47th and six succeeding congresses. Holman returned to 
                                                Washington
                                             as a member of the 55th Congress; he died there in 1897. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1324.
                                            Because of his constant fight for economy in Congress, Holman became known
                                            as the "watchdog of the Treasury.
                              
                                 7 Samuel J. Randall, a native of 
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , became state senator from 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                             in 1858 and 1859 after a career including mercantile pursuits
                                            and service on the 
                                                Philadelphia
                                             city council. He was elected as a Democrat to the 38th and the
                                            thirteen succeeding congresses, serving as speaker of the House for the last
                                            session of the 44th Congress and also during the 45th and 46th congresses.
                                            He died in 
                                                Washington
                                             in 1890, celebrated for his oratory and keen wit.
                              
                                 8 Albert M. Beecher, a native of 
                                                Iowa
                                            , was appointed to the Naval Academy from that state; he entered
                                            the service June 11, 1880. Register of the Commissioned and
                                                Warrant Officers of the Navy of the 
                                                    United States
                                                , 1885, pp. 44-45.
                              
                                 9 John H. Shipley, a native of 
                                                Iowa
                                            , was appointed to the Naval Academy from 
                                                Missouri
                                            ; he entered the service in 1874; ibid.,
                                            38-39.
                           s  to sea. The
                                    "Patterson" rounded to but we lost sight of her in less than five
                                    minutes as it was very thick. Suddenly our engines stopped. I jumped aft and found
                                    that one of the machinists had his arm jammed in the machinery. The blood was
                                    spurting and his groans were not very refreshing at this juncture for we fell off
                                    into the trough of the sea. We finally got him out and got him into the cabin into
                                    my bunk. I steamed up again and then got over the "drag" or
                                    "sea anchor"—we rode to it for a few moments, and then
                                    the cable parted.
                        The situation was critical. Here we were 350 miles from 
                                        San Francisco
                                    , about 30 miles from land, and 200 miles from the Columbia
                                        river. If I used coal (and water) in "bucking" the
                                    sea to ride up to it, I might find myself short and adrift. I concluded that every
                                    risk must be taken to save coal and water. I there fore treated her as a wreck and
                                    let her drift. I found after a little while that she would lay to stern to the sea as her pilot house & turtle back acted as sail, so I
                                    got up a tarpaulin abaft the pilot house, and laid her to stern
                                    foremost. This is considered the most perilous position for a vessel and Beecher
                                    & the two seamen respectfully demurred. We had to take the chances, and she
                                    did remarkably well (We had no sails)
                        Then it did begin to blow. The seas were terrific. What saved us was that it rained
                                    so hard at times that the white "curlers" were beaten down now and
                                    then. What we had to fear was having the deck house swept off by a sea. It was
                                    really wonderful the way the great seas broke just ahead and just
                                        astern of us. One broke over us but it went clear over. I laid
                                    her to in such a position that we were set in towards the shore and on our course.
                                    You can believe that it was somewhat of a blow when the
                                    "Patterson" had her boats smashed, & rolled her rails
                                    under, and when a four masted American ship, the "Ocean King",
                                    foundered not 20 miles from us, loaded with coal.
                        About 5 o'clock it suddenly lighted up for about 20 minutes and we got a
                                    glimpse of the sun. From our observations we shaped our course and ran for land. At
                                    8:30 we picked up Cape Gregory10 light and by 9 P.M. were
                                    merrily 
                              
                                 10 Cape Gregory is the former name of Cape Arago, in
                                                    
                                    Coos County, Oregon
                                 . The light is on
                                            an island joined to the cape by abridge.
                           
                                     humming along for the Columbia
                                    river 180 miles distant. In shore it was not blowing much. The
                                    "Patterson" had it rough all night outside. Sunday night we
                                    arrived off the Columbia river at midnight and lay to till
                                    daylight. At 6 A.M. three pilot boats came out. I spoke one and the skipper told me
                                    that they had had bad weather for a week. No vessel had crossed the bar for two
                                    days; there were three ocean steamers inside waiting to get out; the Coast Survey
                                    Str. "McArthur" was at 
                                        Astoria
                                    ; it would not do for me to think of crossing the bar
                                    before afternoon tide and even then it was risky. I stood for the entrance and about
                                    10 A.M. one of the pilot boats stood in. I spoke her and asked permission to follow
                                    him in. I told him our condition. We were short of coal, out of fresh water through
                                    leakage in the tanks, and had an injured man who must have medical attendance. I
                                    knew that the bar was dangerous. It has the worst reputation of any of our harbors.
                                    Our condition was critical; I had been up for four days and nights, Beecher had had
                                    to stand a watch in the fire room as machinist with a seaman to shovel
                                    coal—Every one was about worn out, and I was not well balanced in my
                                    judgement about the bar. In fact I simply did not care. I had pulled through so much
                                    that I was reckless. No man in his right mind, knowing the bar
                                    (which I did not) would have dreamed of it. We stood in. The pilot boats have
                                    bulkheads on their deck houses of timbers 12 inches thick and are handled by the
                                    most expert, surfmen in the world. Over 180 lives were lost last year on the bar in
                                    small craft.
                        We went through the breakers for three miles heading obliquely across the bar from
                                    one side of the river clear to the other. As soon as we got in I saw we had no
                                    business there but I hung on. It was marvelous to see the way the pilot handled the
                                    tug (a vessel about 450 tons.) He had given me some pointers on it, and we did well
                                    for awhile. About half way across we caught one that knocked us down, went clear
                                    through the deck house, and left about 2 tons of water on board. Our young machinist
                                    (an American to be proud of) stayed right by his post and by a miracle got the
                                    engines to going again, and we moved ahead. Then came the prettiest piece of
                                    skillful seamanship I have ever seen. The pilot tug hovered us to windward, took the
                                    breaking of the seas for us, and nursed us the rest of the way over the bar.
                        
                        At 
                                        Astoria
                                     I found the "McArthur" about 1 P.M. Her doctor took
                                    charge of the man, her carpenter gang repaired the "Cosmos", and
                                    she gave us a fresh load of coal. I went ashore immediately and telegraphed up and
                                    down the coast to the "Patterson" and home. About 5 P.M. the
                                    "Manzanita" came down from 
                                        Portland
                                     and I saw Lieut. & Mrs. Sebree11 In the
                                    evening I attended a dinner given by the "McArthur" officers on
                                    board to Lieut & Mrs. Sebree, but I was so nervous and the reaction was so
                                    strong that I had to retire immediately after dinner. I had smashed my thumb besides
                                    and that began to get in on me. Next day it was stormy. I went up to the tug office
                                    to pay pilotage and the owners laughed and said it was all right. I never felt so
                                    cheap in my life. All I could say to the tug Capt was "Thank you, you
                                    simply saved our lives, and I can only thank you for it." The Astoria
                                    papers gave us a little send off, and every one seemed to look on it that it was a
                                    great piece of cheek to tackle the bar in that weather. The
                                    "McArthur" left next morning and we followed her out over the bar
                                    as she had a pilot. It was smooth outside and we parted at the entrance. We had 213
                                    miles to go, further north, 130 of it along the most dangerous stretch of all. We
                                    were fortunate in having good weather. Off Destruction island,12
                                    50 miles below Cape Flattery,13 we fell in with a fishing
                                    schooner displaying signals of distress. We ran off to her and found that she had on
                                    board the shipwrecked crew of the "Ocean King"
                                    of which I spoke the first part of the letter. I offered to take them on board and
                                    they were glad to come. We gave up our cabin to the capt and mate, who had had
                                    little rest. There were 25 in all and we were very crowded. I never saw men behave
                                        
                              
                                 11 Uriel Sebree of 
                                                Missouri
                                             graduated from the Naval Academy in 1867. He served in various
                                            stations until 1873, when he went on the Arctic expedition aboard the S. S.
                                            "Tigress"; under Commander Winfield Scott Schley on the
                                            Greely relief ex edition in 1884; and aboard the U. S. S. "
                                                Baltimore
                                            " under Captain Shley, 1889-1892. From 1885 to 1889 he
                                            was lighthouse inspector at 
                                    Portland, Oregon
                                 . Later he was stationed in Behring
                                                Sea and the Samoan Islands. He commanded the battleship "
                                                Wisconsin
                                            " from 1903 to 1904 and the second division of the
                                            Pacific Fleet from 1907 to 1909. He retired in 1910 and died in 1922. Who Was Who in America, 1897-1942, p. 1101.
                              
                                 12 Destruction Island, with a lighthouse, is off
                                                    
                                    Jefferson County,
                                                    Washington
                                 .
                              
                                 13 Cape Flattery, a high promontory on the northwest
                                            extremity of 
                                    Clallam County,
                                                    Washington
                                 , is
                                            bounded by the Strait of Juan de Fuca on the northeast and the
                                                Pacific Ocean on the southwest.
                           
                                     better than these poor devils did. I had to
                                    stow them as ballast and feed them by turns. The skipper had been a volunteer in our
                                    Navy and was quite an entertaining man. I felt very sorry for him, having lost such
                                    a fine ship—a four master—although through no fault of his
                                    own.
                        Meanwhile the "Patterson" had arrived at Cape Flattery. Not finding
                                    us at Neah Bay
                           14 where we were to meet in case
                                    of being separated, she gave us up. She left coal for us in case we should arrive
                                    & went to Port Townsend W.T.—No one on board had the faintest
                                    idea we were alive. I had tried to telegraph to Neeah Bay but the
                                    government line out to Flattery light (a necessary and valuable
                                    line) had been abandoned 30 days before. Reason
                                    "Appropriation cut off by Congress". At Port Townsend 80 miles
                                    from Neah Bay, Capt Thomas went ashore to telegraph news of our
                                    loss to Navy Dept & C[oast] S[urvey] Office. On the dock he met the operator
                                    with my telegram. Meanwhile we were reported lost at 
                                        San Francisco
                                    , and the girls all felt sorry for us.
                        We arrived at Port Townsend at 10 P.M. May 12th. When the
                                    "Patterson" made us out, she sent up a shower of fireworks and
                                    cheered us to the echo. We answered much to their surprise with 32 voices. I first
                                    asked permission to land the crew of the "Ocean King" and then we
                                    ran alongside. We were fairly dragged on board and passed around. Champagne flew,
                                    and we talked it over till quite late.
                        The day following I ran over to Victoria B.C. to get stores for the ship. The
                                    "Cosmos" was towed to Port Simpson B.C. and we had a nasty trip of
                                    it. From Port Simpson I brought the launch up to about 60 miles north of Fort
                                    Wrangell. Beecher and I measured the base line for this season's work and
                                    three days later the ship came up. I gave up the "Cosmos" about
                                    June 1st. From May 25th to now I have been at it day in and day out
                        We have had a most wretched season, and I have all of this work I want.
                        The Capt of the "Ocean King" sent to the Sec. of
                                    Navy through Capt Thomas a letter on the "Cosmos" business. It is
                                    the only way he had of thanking us so due allowance must be made. I enclose a copy
                                    of the letter furnished me. … I have also letters from Capt. Thomas,
                                    Lieut Comdr Brownson,15
                                    
                              
                                 14 Neah Bay, an Indian village of 
                                    Clallam County, Washington
                                 , is on the Strait of Juan de
                                            Fuca about five miles from the ocean.
                           
                                     and Supt of Coast Survey, etc. The whole point
                                    of it is that it all goes on record at the Navy Department with my record. I made a
                                    strike by the "Cosmos" experience and while I have gotten lots of
                                    taffy I feel inclined to hope that it may give me the professional
                                    lift I want.
                        My ideas are just these. We get back to 
                                        San Francisco
                                     about Oct 15th. By Nov 1st my office work will be such that I can
                                    leave. I have been home five days in five years. I must get home.
                                    There will be no trouble about that, however.
                        I want to go to the "
                                        Chicago
                                    ".16 Clover17 is to be
                                    navigator I believe. He wants me to apply. I don't mind piling up sea
                                    service now and nothing would be better for me than the "
                                        Chicago
                                    ". She probably goes into commission about Sept 1st, does she
                                    not? At the same time I want to go to her I must have a month at least at home. I am
                                    not willing to go before Dec 15 or Jan 1st.
                        My idea is now to go direct from S. F. to 
                                        New York
                                     when detached, see the "
                                        Chicago
                                    ", do some shopping, etc 
                              
                                 15 Willard H. Brownson, a native of 
                                                New York
                                            , graduated from the Naval Academy in 1865; he served as
                                            inspector of hydrography from 1885 to 1889 and was superintendent of the
                                            Naval Academy from 1902 to 1906. Who Was Who in America,
                                                1897-1942, p. 154.
                              
                                            
                                    16 Four ships constructed under an act of Congress in
                                                1883 were the "Dolphin," "
                                                    Atlanta
                                                ," "
                                                    Chicago
                                                ," and "
                                                    Boston
                                                ." John D. Long, The New American
                                                Navy (2 vols., 
                                                    New York
                                                , 1903), I, 24, 31. Because of his interest in the subject
                                                and the aid he gave in the advancement of the matter, Thomas was given
                                                the privilege of naming one of the vessels, and, since he was a native
                                                of 
                                                    Illinois
                                                , he named her the "
                                                    Chicago
                                                ."
                                            In the Register of the Commissioned and Warrant officers of
                                                    the Naval Militia of the 
                                                        United States
                                                    , 1914, pp. 36-39, the "
                                                    Chicago
                                                " is listed as a "protected
                                                cruiser," 4,500 tons displacement, 9,000 horsepower, 18 knots
                                                speed.
                                            On several occasions Thomas was a member of the Board of Visitors
                                                appointed by Congress to attend the graduation ceremonies at 
                                                    Annapolis
                                                . Because of his deep interest in naval affairs he became
                                                the friend of a number of young officers and was able to advance their
                                                careers. He had two junior officers whose health was poor sent to the
                                                mild climate of the west coast, where they improved greatly. It is
                                                possible that Niblack was also indebted to Thomas on that
                                                account—hence his statement regarding his health.
                                        
                              
                                 17 Richardson Clover, native of 
                                                Maryland
                                            , was graduated from the Naval Academy in 1867. He served in
                                            various stations until 1885-1886, when he was put in charge of the survey of
                                            southeastern Alaska. Later he was chief of naval intelligence, member of the
                                            board on construction of vessels, and member of the war and strategy board.
                                                Who Was Who in America, 1897-1942, pp. 232-233. Clover
                                            was commander of the Coast Survey Steamer "Patterson,"
                                            according to the Register of the Commissioned and Warrant
                                                Officers of the Navy of the 
                                                    United States
                                                , 1885, p. 22.
                           
                                     then go to 
                                        Washington
                                     and see Walker.18 I am not willing to embarass him
                                    by bringing pressure on him of any kind, and I want to simply pull it on official
                                    and personal grounds. I have no doubt in the world that if you wanted me to go to
                                    the "
                                        Chicago
                                    " I could go, but I don't want to use
                                    "influence".
                        Clover writes me that Walker talks as if I can get anything I want. I eventually want
                                    command of a torpedo boat when we get any, meanwhile I want service on a modern man-of-war. The "
                                        Chicago
                                    " suits me to a dot. What do you think of it?
                        I am afraid if I wait till I get to 
                                        Washington
                                     there will be no vacancy for me on her. It seems to me the best thing I
                                    can do is write to him personally now. I remember your asking me once why I did not
                                    wait for the "
                                            Chicago
                                        ". I know that you would like for me to strike her so
                                    I will tell Walker so. He does not like to have pressure to bear on him for orders,
                                    and I think the mere fact that he knows you will be very much pleased will be all
                                    that is required in the way of influence.
                        Aug 3rd.
                        I had flattered myself I had a day off. The weather was bad and I wanted to board the
                                    mail steamer to see some friends. The steamer passed at 7 A.M. and at noon the
                                    captain started me off on a week's camping out expedition, so here I am in
                                    camp in a wildly picturesque bay with two large glaciers debouching in it, with snow
                                    clad peaks rising steeply 3000 feet from the water, and with roaring mountain
                                    torrents and ideal trout streams emptying into the water with echoing splash and
                                    roar. My work always requires me to pioneer out ahead of the ship building signals,
                                    selecting stations, and carrying on the main triangulation. It is nice work (the
                                    triangulation) but a rough life. It has built me up however and I am now in better
                                    health than I have ever dreamed of as possible for me. I am very contented with my
                                    lot in life, am fond of my profession and am in good health. Altogether I am in
                                    luck. I have been in the survey three 
                              
                                 18 John G. Walker, native of 
                                                New Hampshire
                                            , was graduated from the Naval Academy in 1856. He served with
                                            distinction throughout the Civil War in blockading service with the 
                                                Mississippi
                                             squadron. He became captain in 1877, commodore in 1889, rear
                                            admiral in 1894, and retired in 1897. At the time Niblack's letter
                                            was written Walker was chief of the Bureau of Navigation. Who
                                                Was Who in America, 1897-1942, p. 1290. Register of
                                                the Commissioned and Warrant Officers of the Navy of the 
                                                    United States
                                                , 1885, p. 7.
                           
                                     years now and although I could stay another I would not think of it.
                        I got a glimpse of Lieut & Mrs Sebree the other day as they passed on the
                                    "Manzanita" bound to Sitka. …
                        I am anxious to see you. When will you be in 
                                        Washington
                                    . I am going to visit in 
                                        Chicago
                                     and 
                                        New York
                                     on my way to 
                                        Washington
                                     so I may bring up there about Nov 15th or 20th. I will then go home and
                                    await orders If I should be lucky enough to pull the "
                                        Chicago
                                    ", I will be in 
                                        Washington
                                    
                                    en route, so I will be sure to see you sometime.
                        I see by the papers that you have been taking active and personal interest in the new
                                    cruisers this summer—(the "
                                        Boston
                                    " "
                                        Atlanta
                                    " & particularly the "
                                        Chicago
                                    ")
                        I will write to Walker by this mail. I hope to get a definite reply. If he says no, I
                                    shall let it rest there. I am sure he will treat me fairly, and I will not regret
                                    what I do get.
                        "The sweet little cherub that sits up aloft" is looking out for me
                                    I know—or I would have been dead long ago.
                        . … I hope you will not think it indelicate in me in having written so of
                                    my own adventures. I would have thought very little of the matter had not the press
                                    and my friends taken the matter up. So many wild statements have been made, that
                                    thinking you might have heard some rumors and wonder why I have not written, I had
                                    best let you know how I got out of a very bad scrape.
                        
                                    Very sincerely yours
                                    
                                        Albert P Niblack
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Copy
                        
                                    
                              Port Townsend Washn Terry.
                           
                                    May 16th 1887
                                
                        Sir
                        I have the honor to respectfully request that you will kindly express to Ensign
                                    Albert P Niblack USN in charge of U S Steam Launch Cosmos, under your command, the
                                    thanks of myself, my officers and crew for receiving us on board the
                                    "Cosmos" on the 11th of May instant, off Destruction Island W.T.
                                    from the overcrowded little schooner Angel Dolly which had rescued us from the wreck
                                    of my late ship Ocean  King, which foundered at
                                    sea off Cape Blanco Oregon,19 on Sunday May 8th, 1887, in
                                    Latitude N 43° 35', Lon W. 124° 58', and
                                    conveying us in safety to Port Townsend [
                                        Washington
                                    ], where we arrived at 11 PM, on Wednesday May 12th.
                        The kind courtesy and attention we all received from Ensign Niblack Ensign Beecher
                                    and crew of the Cosmos, will long be remembered by us all. I trust I may be
                                    permitted to add my testimony of the gallant and meritorious action of Ensign
                                    Niblack and his skilful seamanship, in bringing the Cosmos out of that fearful gale
                                    of May 8th—(during which my ship, a vessel of 2,500 tons
                                    foundered—) and taking her in over the bar of the Columbia
                                        River at a time when four ocean steamers feared to pass out on
                                    account of the terrific sea breaking clear across the mouth of the river.
                        It is of such stock as this that the future Farraguts and Porters of the Navy will be
                                    formed, and I congratulate you, sir, in having so meritorious an officer in your
                                    command.
                        
                                    I have the honor to be your Obedient Servant
                                    (Signed). C H Sawyer, Late Master Ship Ocean King,
                                        Foundered at Sea, and Late Volunteer Lieut U. S. N.
                                
                         Capt C.M. Thomas U.S.N. Commanding U.S.C.S. Steamer C P Patterson Fort
                                    Wrangel, Alaska
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  19 Cape Blanco is near the northern line of 
                     Curry County, Oregon
                  .
            
         
         
         
            Another Rappite Letter
            
                    Edited by John C. Andressohn
                    *
                
            A facsimile of the following letter was received through the kindness of Henry A. Meyer of Central
                    High School, 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana. It was sent from Economy, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , on April 12, 1827, by Romelius L. Baker to Frederick Rapp, who was in
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               . Carried by the steamboat "
                        Pennsylvania
                    " for 18¢ cents, it was addressed in care of I. & W.
                    Stewart, merchants.1 The letter was written in German.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Economy
                           
                                    April 12th 1827.
                                
                        Frederick!
                        Last Monday we received via the Steamboat 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     106 bales of cotton, which were of good quality, but somewhat higher in
                                    price than we had expected.
                        Captain Stone stated that he had not inquired about the 
                              
                                 * John C. Andressohn retired in June, 1955,
                                            as professor of history at Indiana University, 
                                                Bloomington
                                            . For Rappite letters previously translated by Professor
                                            Andressohn see "The Arrival of the Rappites at 
                                                New Harmony
                                            , Indiana Magazine of History (
                                                Bloomington
                                            , 1905-XLII (1946), 395-409; "Twenty Additional Rappite
                                            Manuscripts," ibid. XLIV (1948), 83-108;
                                            "Three Additional Rappite Letters," ibid., XLV (1949),
                                            184-188.
                              
                                            
                                    1 Frederick Rapp was the adopted son of George Rapp,
                                                founder of the Harmony, Indiana, experiment in communal life in the
                                                decade following 1814. Romelius L. Baker, one of the leading business
                                                managers of the community, took over control of the Rappites at Economy, 
                                                    Pennsylvania
                                                , after the death of George Rapp in 1847. Baker died in
                                                1868.
                                            Previous letters referred to the firm of I. &. W. Stewart. Miss
                                                Mary Verhoeff of the Filson Club at 
                                                    Louisville
                                                 supplied the following information: The two brothers are
                                                mentioned in Register of the Kentucky Historical Society
                                                        (
                                       Frankfort,
                                                        Kentucky
                                    ,
                                                1902-), beginning with the January, 1953, issue, in an article by
                                                Seymour V. Connor, "
                                                    Kentucky
                                                 Colonization in 
                                                    Texas
                                                , a History of the Peters Colony." Willis Stewart
                                                was a leading member of the Peters Colony, reorganized in 
                                                    Louisville
                                                 as the 
                                                    Texas
                                                 Immigration and Land Company. Ibid., LI, 24, 26, 32. He was
                                                born about 1790 in 
                                                    Kentucky
                                                 and married Patsy Oldham Taylor. They had thirteen
                                                children. He is listed in the census of 1830 as the head of a family and
                                                owner of eight Negro slaves. An enterprising capitalist who was
                                                interested in investing in any venture that offered a fair chance for
                                                profit, he operated, in partnership with John Owen, a general
                                                merchandise store in 
                                                    Louisville
                                                ; lent money on mortgages; was interested in the 
                                                    Louisville
                                                 and 
                                                    Elizabethtown
                                                 Turn-pike Company and the Louisville and Nashville
                                                Railroad; and was a director and for a time president of the 
                                                    Kentucky
                                                 and 
                                                    Louisville
                                                 Mutual Insurance Company. Ibid., 24 and 32n. The 
                                                    Louisville
                                                 Directory for the Yew 1832, p. 77, lists Willis Stewart as
                                                a merchant on the north side of Main Street, corner of Sixth; in the 
                                                    Louisville
                                                 Directory for the Year 1836, p. 52, he is listed as a
                                                merchant on the south side of Main Street between Fifth and Sixth. His
                                                brother, Isaac Stewart, is listed in the 
                                                    Louisville
                                                 Directory, 1832, p. 77, as a merchant on the north side of
                                                Main Street between Fifth and Sixth; in the 
                                                    Louisville
                                                 Directory, 1836, p. 52, he is listed as a merchant on the
                                                north side of Main Street, corner of Fifth. It would seem that at the
                                                time this letter was written the brothers were in business together. In
                                                the Morning Post and Commercial Advertiser (
                                                    Louisville
                                                ), May 21, 1824, there is an advertisement with the heading,
                                                "Commission Merchants and Wholesale Grocery Stores" by
                                            
                                        
                           
                                     castings in 
                                        Manchester
                                    ;2 they are probably still there, and if possible,
                                    you could ask about them on your trip home.
                        Last Tuesday the Steamboat Albion delivered the ox-hides, deer-hides, and raccoon
                                    pelts, which Messrs. John D. Hay and John Caldwell had consigned to the Steamboat
                                        Reindeer.3
                        
                        Messrs. Buchannon and Starky4 of 
                                        Louisville
                                     who sent the items here, state that the Reindeer could not rise above
                                    the hull, because the water was too low. They, however, made no mention of the
                                    letter with an enclosure of $385, which Mr. Hay had delivered to the
                                    clerk of the Reindeer, nor of James Green's bill of exchange on Wardes
                                    & Brothers of 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     for $271.78. You might also look into this.
                        There is nothing new to report. Henry Ehmann5 has again returned
                                    on the 2 inst., and has promised to mend his ways and is living here.
                        The weather since your departure has regularly been moist and warm, and everything is
                                    flourishing; the peachtrees are in bloom, and spring is here.
                        
                                    Greetings,
                                    R. L. Baker
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                        "Isaac and William Stewart, Main Street," and this was also in the July 8,
                            1824, issue of the paper. The Directories state that both Stewarts were interested with
                            various agents in the insurance business; were agents for several eastern companies, and for
                            various local organizations. For Isaac Stewart see also 
                                Louisville
                             Directory, 1832, pp 135 and 192, and 
                                Louisville
                             Directory, 1836, pp. 84 and 93. For Willis Stewart see 
                                Louisville
                             Directory, 1832, pp. 145 and 175, and 
                                Louisville
                             Directory, 1836, pp. 87, 89, and 93.
                        A "
                                Pennsylvania
                            " of 107 tons is included in a list in James Hall, Statistics of the
                            West, at the Close of the Year 1836 (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1837), 259. Built at 
                                Pittsburgh
                             in 1823, she was worn out by 1827 James Hall, Notes on the Western States (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1838), 260, lists a "
                                Pennsylvania
                            ," built at 
                                Pittsburgh
                             in 1827, 150 tons, abandoned in 1833. The boat referred to could have been
                            either of these two.
                    
               
                  2
                        
                            Manchester
                        , southeast of 
                            Cincinnati
                         on the 
                            Ohio
                        , was located in 
                            Adams County
                        , where for several years low-grade iron deposits were worked. House Executive
                        Documents, 22d Cong., 1st Sess., No. 308 (2 vols., serial nos. 222-223), II 863.
               
                  3 The Louisville Public Advertiser, August 29, 1827, mentions an
                        "Albion" which plied between 
                            Louisville
                         and 
                            Cincinnati
                        . The "Albion" is also mentioned in ibid.,
                        September 1, November 7 and 10, 1827. Hall, Notes on the Western States, 260, cites a
                        "Reindeer, built at 
                            Brownsville
                        , 1826, 60 tons." Another "Reindeer" is listed in the 
                            Louisville
                         Directory, 1832, p. 129, 98 tons.
               
                  4 The two owners of this firm, George Buchanan and George Starkey, carried
                        on a commission and forwarding business on Fourth Street between Main and the river.
                        Advertisements of this firm appear in the early 
                            Louisville
                         papers. The Filson Club has some orders of Buchanan and Starkey on the 
                            Portland
                         Warehouse Company for pig iron to be delivered to [J.] Keffer, dated 
                            Louisville
                        , December 14 and 27, 1817, and also an order of J. Keffer on the 
                            Portland
                         Warehouse for pig iron purchased of Buchanan and Starkey dated 
                            Louisville
                        , December 31, 1827.
               
                  5 Ehmann was probably expelled from the settlement because of some
                        delinquency.
            
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            The Graves of Pioneers
            
                    Irene M. Strieby
                    *
                
            The Genealogy Department of the Indiana State Library is the depository for records covering hundreds
                    of graves in old cemeteries of the state. These records represent over the past two decades work
                    both of individuals and of organizations. For example, one of the early and enthusiastic workers
                    presented inscriptions gathered from thirty-five cemeteries in his county during one year and this
                    was only the beginning of the activity in that area. More recently, several local historians
                    co-operated by listing, in one volume, the names and dates of Hoosiers buried in thirty-nine
                    cemeteries of another county. In between these contributions have come others from every corner of
                    the state.
            This year the Genealogy Committee of the Indiana Historical Society is making a renewed effort to
                    collect various types of records which will supplement those which have been presented to the
                    Indiana State Library by groups of workers in past years. Among the lists of desiderata are cemetery
                    records which have not yet been collected. If there are those who have been planning to do this work
                    on their own initiative, it is hoped they will contact their county historian and inform him of
                    their plans. 
                        Likewise county
                     historians have been encouraged to discover residents who are sufficiently interested
                    in carrying on the task of locating neglected cemeteries in order to copy the inscriptions before it
                    is too late.
            The late Harry O. Garman, a former chairman of the Committee on Pioneer Cemeteries and Churches said,
                    in his report made at the Indiana History Conference on December 14, 1940: "Since there are
                    more people in the ground than there are on top of the ground, we cannot expect to preserve all the
                    burial places, but we can collect the names and describe the burial places and file this information
                    … where it will be available to everyone as long as public institutions last."
                    For those who do make the effort to search these abandoned spots, there has been the suggestion that
                    a marker 
                  
                     * Irene Strie by is chairman of the Indiana Historical
                            Society's Genealogy Committee.
               
                     telling the public that the records have been copied, by whom,
                    and where deposited would be a further step in preserving our heritage and commemorating the courage
                    of our pioneers.
            In every township of our ninety-two counties are found old burial grounds; some are in abandoned
                    church yards and others are in small family plots on farms. Many are full of weeds, briers, and
                    poison ivy with the headstones hidden in the underbrush. Others are badly eroded and the markers, if
                    still there, are partially covered with the soil or are broken into bits. Still other graves have
                    disappeared completely due to their being in the path of progress-buildings, new roads, or plowed
                    under for agricultural purposes.
            As described in the 
                  
                            New Jersey
                         Genesis
               1, there are several groups of historically minded
                    people in the state known as "tombstone hounds." A small group outfits itself with
                    small shovel; light crowbar; stiff brushes; mirror; light and dark powders; pumice stone; and, of
                    course, pad and pencil. More specific directions include these suggestions: "Rub the pumice
                    across almost obliterated letters and and you will be amazed at what will show. On light stones,
                    dark earth or dust sprayed over lettering and brushed with a flat object, will bring out the figures
                    and the reverse is true on very dark stones by using light powder or chalk. The mirror? To reflect
                    light rays onto stones to read, particularly in dark shaded places. One member writes and one checks
                    the writing while the others make the preparations." The work certainly progresses more
                    rapidly if it is done in small groups of two or three, with all collaborating in making a map to
                    accompany the records and in making the final copies in triplicate; local historical societies will
                    also appreciate copies of records made. However, lacking a team to do the work, much has been
                    accomplished by one lone worker.
            Sometimes only one person in a county can generate sufficient enthusiasm to accomplish whatever
                    remains to be done in gathering records-be it much or little. A news story in the local papers may
                    be the means of producing volunteer workers as well as information as to the location of old burial
                    grounds, especially the family plots known only to a few present-day descendants. A county atlas
                    published in the last century will often indicate the location of old churches 
                  
                     1 "To Searchers of Cemetery Records," 
                                New Jersey
                             Genesis, II (1955), 47.
               
                     and cemeteries and sometimes the land-owners at the time of
                    publication of the atlas, many of whose families received original land grants.
            In respect to efforts of various organizations and of individuals to locate only graves of specific
                    interest to them, it has been pointed out that it is undesirable to discriminate and to exclude any
                    graves from the record-the fathers and mothers because they are the ancestors while the children
                    help to identify the parents. To answer any further questions that may arise, it is wise to
                    transcribe all of the information available upon the headstones though it may be incomplete. Such is
                    the procedure the majority of loyal county workers have followed through the years.
         
         
            Query
            The following communication has been received from Warren A. Reeder, Jr., 260 165th Street, 
                        Hammond
                    , Indiana: "Joseph Reeder was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , January 25, 1786, married Elenor Stockton in 
                  Ross
                            County, Ohio
               , 1810, migrated to 
                        Parke County
                    , Indiana, in 1817, died in 
                  Clinton,
                            Vermillion County
               , December, 1869. Does anyone
                    know his parents or where in 
                        Ohio
                     he came from? Will exchange all subsequent data from my files."
            Query
            The following communication has been received from Dr. Eldon B. Tucker, Jr., 349 Cobun Avenue,
                            
                  Morgantown, West Virginia
               : "Wanted: descendants of George Tucker of
                            
                  Monongalia County, Virginia
               , now 
                        West Virginia
                    , who was born 1762 in 
                        Delaware
                     and died in 1834. He served in the Revolution in Capt. David Kent's Company of
                            
                  Kent County, Maryland
               , where the following children lived undetermined. James R.
                    (wife was Elizabeth); Thomas; Andrew; Jesse; Aaron; Rachel (married 1830 Ahab Keller); Mary; Phebe
                    (may have married Philip Boor in 1823), and Sarah. George's daughter, Nancy Thompson of
                            
                  Franklin County, Ohio
               , had the following children whose descendants cannot be located:
                    James; George (resided in Indiana); Miles; Jesse; Rachel, married a Stark or Starks; Sarah, married
                    Armenas Fields and moved to 
                        Iowa
                    . A genealogy of this family is being written by Dr. E. B. Tucker, Jr., of 349 Cobun
                    Ave., Morgantown, W. Va."
         
         
         
            Genealogical Study
            A recent publication which may interest genealogists is A Genealogical Study of the
                        Nicolaus and Veronica (Zimerman) Roth Family, 1834-1954, by Ruth C. Roth in collaboration
                    with Roy D. Roth. It was published by Miss Roth, 2116 S. Aurora Avenue, 
                        Elkhart
                    , Indiana, under the auspices of the Daniel Roth Family Reunion, and was multigraphed in
                    1955 by the Mennonite Board of Missions and Charities in 
                        Elkhart
                    . The book includes eighty-two pictures and eight pages of art work, as well as seven
                    indices for seven major families traced.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Booth Tarkington, Gentleman from Indiana. By James Woodress. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : J. B. Lippincott Company, 1954, pp. 10, 350. Illustrations, bibliographical
                    postscript, and index. $5.00.)
            James Woodress has succeeded admirably at a difficult task: he has not only written the first
                    biography of Booth Tarkington but has written it justly and honestly while the literary reputation
                    of that fine gentleman from Indiana is still under the critical cloud that inevitably hovers over
                    the names of writers during the first decade or two after their deaths.
            The book will inspire a warm nostalgic pleasure in all readers of middle age and beyond, especially
                    if they are Hoosiers; for Woodress is not content with simply reporting the events of
                    Tarkington's life from his birth in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on July 29, 1869, to his death in that city on May 19, 1946; he also recreates vividly
                    the world in which the Hoosier novelist and playwright lived for seventy-seven years. The early
                    chapters, describing the 
                        Indianapolis
                     of the 1870's and 1880's, Princeton University in the
                    1890's, and again 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where Tarkington returned for his apprenticeship at writing, are a masterpiece of
                    atmosphere produced from accurate detail.
            In those early chapters, perhaps, Woodress is not altogether convincing in his insistence upon the
                    ordeal of the apprenticeship. True, Tarkington devoted seven or eight years to the practice of his
                    craft and he was thirty before his first book was published. But few authors are published before
                    they are thirty; even fewer spend their years of learning in the ideal circumstances that Tarkington
                    enjoyed' (with an independent income inherited from his famous uncle, 
                        Newton
                     Booth, and the love, understanding, and confidence in his talent of two very
                    intelligent parents and a devoted sister); and fewer still become famous overnight with their first
                    books, as Tarkington did with "The Gentleman from Indiana," and follow those
                    initial efforts with a succession of best-sellers. However, disappointment and frustration are as
                    painful to a sensitive spirit in physical  comfort and security
                    as they are in poverty, and the biographer's error here is one of faulty emphasis rather
                    than exaggeration.
            The story is slightly out of kilter at one other point. In his middle years, Tarkington was writing
                    too much and a great deal of his output was of inferior quality. Woodress seems somewhat embarrassed
                    by this fact and, to cover his embarrassment, devotes far too much space to a catalogue and analysis
                    of the ephemeral work of this period, thus obscuring his point that the labor itself was a miracle
                    of determination and courage on the part of the author, since this was the time when
                    Tarkington's sight was failing and he was undergoing numerous operations with what must
                    have seemed an almost certain prospect of blindness ahead of him.
            But these are only minor flaws in the light of the biographer's whole accomplishment. From
                    the book, the character and personality of Booth Tarkington—warm, generous, unaffected,
                    and yet always urbane,—emerge alive and understandable. Finishing the book, the reader
                    feels that he has lived for a time in the company of a great gentleman, who, in the perspective of
                    time, may ultimately be regarded not only as the great Hoosier novelist but as one of the major
                    artists of all American fiction.
            
               Indiana University William E. Wilson
         
         
            
               The Raiders. By William E. Wilson. (
                        New York
                    : Rinehart & Company, Inc., 1955, pp. 244. $3.00.)
            
               The Raiders is a historical novel and, as such, presents a problem of considerable
                    magnitude for a historian to review. The task is made more difficult since the narrative of The Raiders is based on the raid into southern Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     during the Civil War by General John Hunt Morgan and his Confederates—a raid
                    which has confounded historical accuracy because of its legacy of legends. Therefore, it would not
                    be fair to judge Professor Wilson's book according to standards expected of a scholarly
                    piece of historical writing; to do this would be extremely foolish and would distort the real intent
                    and purpose of the work. Consequently, comments here should be confined to what The
                        Raiders actually is: a highly entertaining, rapid-moving novel.
            
            Being as it is a many-sided art form, the novel usually possesses a plot, shows good
                    characterization, reveals the imagination of the author, and presents a reasonable portrayal of
                    life. In particular, the historical novel should be accurate as to time and setting, be true and
                    life-like in regard to characters, and it should give a general impression of the historical reality
                    of the era. Has Wilson met these requirements in his latest novel? Has he transformed the formal
                    records of the past and the folklore of yesteryear into a credible portrayal of life and human
                    experience?
            The novel opens with Henry Clayburn, the mayor of 
                        Crescent City
                    , observing during the gentle graying of the dawn the rebels from Dixie crossing the
                        Ohio River from the 
                        Kentucky
                     side. He knows that his city—a politically-divided river town disturbed by
                    the conflicting loyalties of the North and South—will soon be invaded. What should he do?
                    He fears a Copperhead uprising. He does not know how the townspeople—nor he, for that
                    matter—will react to the impending events of the day ahead. Will the Home Guards succumb
                    to panic after the first few volleys of shot have been fired? What does any man do when ominous
                    clouds of war darken his door? In The Raiders, Wilson points out that Clayburn
                    could not simply run home, lock the doors, and think that the danger of the moment would
                    pass—one, by wishful thinking, does not brush those clouds away and make a brighter day.
                    The invasion force gathers momentum! The portentous storm will soon rain its pellets of destruction
                    upon 
                        Crescent City
                     and Clayburn's home. His own family, like 
                        Crescent City
                    , is caught in the web of conflict. His son by his deceased first wife is fighting with
                    the Union forces. His second wife and his son by her are sympathetic to the Confederate cause. Henry
                    Clayburn is a Democrat and believes in the preservation of the Union. In his determination to save
                    his city, will he respond immediately, heroically, and dramatically, or will he "act simply
                    upon the exigencies of each moment" (p. 35) as it approaches? Shouldering a gun and
                    fighting would be much simpler than thinking about the complexities of the day.
            As mayor of the city he meets with the council and arranges the details of defense. But after that,
                    what can he do except wait, wait, wait? Herein lies the author's secret—that is,
                    he creates a feeling of suspense and controlled excitement 
                    which envelops the reader. The raiders begin to encircle the town! Mayor Clayburn has just received
                    bad news and is engulfed with grief. His son, one of the Boys in Blue, has been killed by the
                    Confederates—Confederates like those who are capturing 
                        Crescent City
                    . The victorious leader of the Dixie Dons, Colonel Stacey Morey, is a cousin of the
                    mayor's wife. While Colonel Morey is in command, 
                        Crescent City
                    , although extremely tense, is safe. There will be no loss of life and no great amount
                    of property destroyed. Colonel Stacey Morey, who leads this diversionary force into 
                        Crescent City
                     and so augments Morgan's drive into Hoosierdom, is shot. The tension is
                    relieved by the violent outbreak of a riot. The brutality of war unfolds before the eyes of 
                        Crescent City
                    . The sons of the South begin to pillage and burn the mayor's city.
            Henry Clayburn perceives the course of action necessary for the liberation of his beleaguered city:
                    it is his responsibility to go for help. During the process of finding himself he frees from his
                    mind the false notion that man, on some occasions, will have to stand alone. As he prepares to slip
                    through the rebel line which surrounds the town and ride for military aid, he realizes that he is
                    not alone. Neither will he be alone when he begins to pick up the broken pieces amid the smoldering
                    embers. He and his people will salvage what is left of ravaged 
                        Crescent City
                    —their home on the north bank of the Ohio River.
            This tautly woven narrative shows expert construction. It is extremely compact and is filled with
                    pulsating action. Some critics will argue that there is not enough characterization. There is,
                    nevertheless, an impressive study of character and human experience in the central
                    figure—Henry Clayburn grows in stature and dignity, and there are adequate descriptions
                    for most of the minor characters. The reader, perhaps, could criticize this novel because there are
                    not several minor conflicts or themes interwoven into the fabric of the main plot. But this
                    fast-moving work is, in many respects, an elongated short story; therefore, too many subordinate
                    lines of interest would not fit into the intended framework.
            The author is a novelist of undeniable skill: the work, from beginning to end, reveals his
                    imagination. Interspersed throughout there is romance and love, of both the romantic and scandalous
                    varieties; there is reflective thinking, including 
                    philosophical tidbits; there is a villain counterbalancing the hero; and there is the mentioning of
                    sex, but passion is restrained and is not offensive to good taste.
            The reader definitely gets an impression of the atmosphere and life of the times by the
                    author's accuracy in time and setting, by realistic descriptions of houses and dress, and
                    by the use of idiomatic language. Comic relief is attained by the witticisms of Goosehead, the Negro
                    janitor at the City Hall.
            Historians will recognize much of the Hoosier phase of Morgan's raid which Wilson has
                    incorporated in this book—so much so that some may wish that the author had definitely
                    located the fictitious 
                        Crescent City
                     at a particular spot in southern Indiana instead of leaving the geographical location
                    somewhat indefinite. The novel indicates that the author is well acquainted with the Civil War along
                    the Ohio River. The historical background has been adequately reproduced for
                    the plot and story. But historians and critics should remember: the author's purpose was
                    not to record an episode in history but to study the reactions of a peace-loving and thoughtful man
                    in a moment of violence and action. This reviewer suggests that Professor Wilson admirably achieved
                    his objective.
            
               Indiana University Gerald O. Haffner
         
         
            
               America Takes the Stage: Romanticism in American Drama and Theatre, 1750-1 900.
                    By Richard Moody. Indiana University Publications, Humanities Series No. 34. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1955, pp. xii, 322. Illustrations, bibliography, selected
                    play list, and index. Paper, $3.75; trade edition, $5.00.)
            
               America Takes the Stage is an interesting exposition of the development of
                    romanticism in American drama and theater from 1750 to 1900. Since the prevailing spirit in a nation
                    to be conceived, born, and started on its vigorous way was essentially one of "restless
                    eagerness," as Moody indicates, and since the American dream of the freedom of opportunity
                    for each individual was often close to reality, it is not surprising that American drama and theater
                    reflected the spirit of a new age of hope and expectancy. Theater managers are in the business to
                    present popular fare before the eyes of an entranced public, and it was  only common sense that dictated that this predominant spirit and
                    interest should be encouraged from the stage.
            Moody recognizes these important considerations in the one hundred and fifty years of American drama
                    which he covers in his work. At times, it is true, the author overemphasizes a pervading romanticism
                    in all aspects of national life in order to reenforce his thesis that the romantic was the
                    compelling motivation in all American drama and theater. There is no question but that economic
                    depressions and the aftermath of war brought people into closer contact with a realism which was not
                    always part of the idealism of the growing nation, but, as Moody points out, the drama and the
                    theater, except in a few instances, did not recognize the reality or else touched on it only
                    superficially. By the end of the nineteenth century, there was an increasing desire to bring about
                    changes and reformation, but the results of such evolution are not within the scope of America Takes the Stage.
            The chief emphasis in Moody's book lies in the section concerned with "Native
                    Themes and Characters," in which there are discussions of Negro minstrelsy, the Negro, the
                    Indian, the Yankee, the wars, the frontier and the folk. These subjects are related to the plays of
                    the nineteenth century in so far as they are used as plot, character, and idea material. Moody has
                    carefully avoided repetition in his treatment of his subject matter, however, and the editing of a
                    vast amount of factual material is well done. Some of the conclusions to be drawn from the facts are
                    not so completely developed as they might be. Since Moody is attempting to present so large a canvas
                    and the editing is obviously necessary, there are several instances where the focus is blurred. For
                    example, John Bernard, who wrote Retrospections of America, 1797-1811 (1887), and
                    whom Moody uses as reference, has some rather penetrating observations to make concerning the
                    Yankee, dividing him into three species: the swapper, the jobber, and the peddler. Although Moody is
                    concerned primarily with the stage creations of the various native characters, he at times might
                    have made more clear the relationship between the actual American types and their representations on
                    the stage.
            A number of histories of American drama and theater have included much of the material to be found in
                    Moody's  book, but in the standard reference works of
                    the past many important plays are ignored or given slight treatment. The contribution made by America Takes the Stage is that the scattered references have been gathered
                    together into a comprehensive whole. In addition to this cohesion, there is a sense of dramatic
                    development which attracts and holds the interest of the reader. The section concerning the various
                    wars in which the 
                        United States
                     was involved during the nineteenth century and the plays which evolved as the result of
                    those conflicts furnishes the best of the new material on American drama.
            Chapter III on "Romanticism in Acting and in the Traditional Drama" is the weakest
                    section of the book. The author does not discuss the romantic mode of acting as much as he might,
                    and therefore treats it superficially, being more interested in discussing the romantic plays in
                    which famous actors appeared rather than acting techniques.
            
               America Takes the Stage is, in spite of a certain unevenness in its emphasis on
                    various aspects of nineteenth century American drama and theater, an important addition to the
                    increasing library on the subject. Written with obvious enthusiasm for the material and injected
                    with an obvious eagerness to bring to life another time and people, the book has a fascinating
                    appeal and makes clearly evident the kind of theater which attracted a majority of those who
                    professed to be part of a romantic and revolutionary experiment among the nations of the world.
            
               Stanford University Norman Philbrick
         
         
            
               Disciples of Christ in 
                            Georgia
                        
               . By J. Edward Moseley. (
                        St. Louis
                    : The Bethany Press, 1954, pp. 400. Appendices, bibliography, and index.
                    $3.00.)
            
               The Tinkling Spring, Headwater of Freedom. By Howard McKnight Wilson.
                            (
                  Fishersville, Virginia
               : The Tinkling Spring and Hermitage Presbyterian
                    Churches, 1954, pp. xviii, 542. Illustrations, appendices, bibliography, and index.
                    $8.00.)
            
               Barton Warren Stone, Early American Advocate of Christian Unity. By William
                    Garrett West. (
                        Nashville
                    , 
                    
                        Tennessee
                    : The Disciples of Christ Historical Society, 1954, pp. xvi, 245. Illustration,
                    bibliography, and index. $4.00.)
            The above selections are tokens of the continuing fecundity of denominational historians. They also
                    attest to the fact that widely different amounts of imagination, understanding, and literary
                    craftsmanship go into the writing of religious history. Least satisfactory of the trio is
                    Moseley's Disciples of Christ in 
                            Georgia
                        
               . The book does justice neither to a passable subject nor to the
                    author's exhaustive research. Dates, places, thumb-nail biographies, anecdotes, and
                    statistics are marshaled in almost encyclopedic fashion on the apparent conviction that once
                    assembled they will automatically relate the story of the Disciples in the Empire State of the
                    South. Such rigid annalism is guaranteed to convey few durable impressions. The principal ones
                    gleaned by the reviewer are: since its origins in the first quarter of the nineteenth century, the
                    denomination has experienced a fitful growth in 
                        Georgia
                    , numbering less than 30,000 members in 1949; the advances of the Disciples have been
                    achieved in the face of considerable opposition from older Protestant churches; and controversies
                    over theology, church polity, and the use of musical instruments in worship have persistently
                    disturbed the internal harmony of the sect. Moseley leaves hanging a number of tantalizing questions
                    which, had he tried to answer, would have relieved the bleak monotony of this book. One vainly
                    wonders why the Disciples failed to duplicate in 
                        Georgia
                     the successes they achieved in 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana or what explains the denomination's small and constantly
                    diminishing popularity among the Negroes. The appeal of the work might have been further widened by
                    close examination of the attitudes and activity of the 
                        Georgia
                     membership in the fields of pacificism, temperance, public education, racial relations,
                    and numerous other areas that traditionally have interested Protestants.
            
               The Tinkling Spring deserves to be commended as one of the better examples of the
                    writing of local history. Notwithstanding occasional lapses into apologetics and repetition, Wilson,
                    the current pastor of the Tinkling Spring congregation, has manufactured a lively account of a
                    church now in the third century of its existence. Located a few miles south of
                            
                  Staunton, Virginia
               , on U. S. Highway 11, the church descends  from the stern Presbyterianism of the Scots-Irish who poured into the
                    trough between the Blue Ridge and Alleghenies before the American Revolution. A
                    resume of the early membership at Tinkling Spring (Lewis, Logan, Breckenridge, Preston, 
                        Campbell
                    , etc.) reads like a beadroll of the families who importantly shaped frontier history in
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                     Basin as well as in the Great Valley. Wilson, however, has not
                    rested with listing prominent names. From an evident awareness that the world has influenced the
                    church as well as being influenced by it, he sketches developments at Tinkling Spring against the
                    evolving background of politics and society in western 
                        Virginia
                    . That much of this background material is a rehash of the familiar or that less than a
                    quarter of the text is given to the period after the Civil War does not fatally detract from a
                    surprisingly entertaining book.
            The most ambitious contribution to the literature of religious history is William West's
                    account of Barton W. Stone. Stone, even before the appearance of this new study, had been accepted
                    as a significant figure in nineteenth century American Protestantism. Born and schooled on the 
                        Virginia
                    -Carolina frontier, he was caught up in the tide of migration to 
                        Kentucky
                     near the end of the eighteenth century. Following his ordination to the Presbyterian
                    ministry in 1797, he took pastoral charge of the congregation at Cane Ridge and
                    had an important part in the celebrated revival which centered there a few years later.
                    Stone's experiences in the Great Revival triggered a predisposition against the creedal
                    formalism of the Presbyterians and in 1804 he renounced his connection with that denomination.
                    During the next forty years Stone's preaching, organization of "New
                    Light" churches, and editorship of the Christian Messenger brought him
                    increasing renown. He is counted among the founders of both the Disciples of Christ and the churches
                    which, before their union with the Congregationalists in 1931, were affiliated under the title of
                    the American Christian Convention. West's book meets the academic requirements for a
                    biography. The scattered though scanty manuscript and printed materials bearing on Stone have been
                    thoroughly exploited; the influences molding Stone's career are painstakingly traced; and
                    the narrative moves with restrained objectivity. However, West has attempted not only a balanced  life of his subject but an emphatic presentation of the ideas
                    of Stone which seem to have especial meaning for Protestant churchmen today. Evidently a partisan of
                    the present ecumenical trend in American Protestantism, the clerical author sees Stone as a sort of
                    John the Baptist of the movement toward unity. "The thesis of this book," reads a
                    prefatory statement, "is that Stone has… been neglected by… American
                    Church historians… as a significant forerunner of the ecumenical movement" (p.
                    ix). West's able volume ought to put an end to the neglect of which he complains. It
                    convincingly reveals Stone in the novel role of a prophet who made the union of American Protestants
                    "the polar star" of his mature thought and endeavor.
            
               Washington University Ralph Morrow
         
         
            
               Book Collecting and Scholarship. Essays by Theodore C. Blegen, James Ford Bell,
                    Stanley Pargellis, Colton Storm, and Louis B. Wright. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of Minnesota Press, 1954, pp. 67. $5.00.)
            James Ford Bell, a milling executive of 
                        Minneapolis
                    , has collected books, maps, and manuscripts for more than thirty years that relate to
                    the history of discovery and exploration. He has collected purposefully, wisely, with discrimination
                    and unflagging enthusiasm. The results of his devoted efforts are truly imposing and can be seen in
                    the Bell Room of the University of 
                        Minnesota
                     library. For, as a loyal alumnus of the University of 
                        Minnesota
                     and a public-minded man who wishes to share his books with the world of scholarship,
                    Bell has given his collection to 
                        Minnesota
                    . The dedication in October, 1953, of the library quarters to house his collection
                    elicited the contents of this small volume: Five brief essays pertaining to book collecting and
                    collectors by men with a personal knowledge of the subject.
            The essay of Theodore C. Blegen, dean of the graduate school of the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    , is an appropriate introduction to the title given the volume. Blegen duly emphasized
                    the importance of books, the necessity of scholars to have access to them and described the scope
                    and richness of the collection. His essay not only contains a thumbnail sketch of Bell but a
                    tasteful bow of appreciation toward  Bell's generosity
                    as well as that of other famous collectors who gave collections to public institutions.
            Bell fittingly titled his essay "Bound Fragments of Time." The motive which led him
                    to become a collector of books dealing largely with "trade" is simply stated:
                    "man's insatiable appetite for experience. He wishes to live not only his own life
                    but the lives of many other men as well, especially the lives of men whose preoccupations are
                    similar to his own" (p. 25).
            Stanley Pargellis, librarian of the Newberry Library, considered the always tantalizing topic,
                    "Rare Books and the Scholar." He defined a rare book as one which is important, is
                    in demand, and scarce. Admonition was passed on to those investigators who do not concern themselves
                    with primary source material: "No scholar worth his salt but goes to the original document,
                    in manuscript or in print" (p. 38).
            Colton Storm, who directs the Western Reserve Historical Society, discussed the "Specialized
                    Collection." Co-operation is called for when such a collection is placed in a public
                    institution. It then becomes the duty of all collectors, book dealers, and librarians to co-operate
                    one with the other in making such a collection the best of its kind.
            Louis B. Wright, the director of the Folger Shakespeare Library, wrote of "American Book
                    Collectors." He pointed out the contributions great book collectors of the past have made
                    to the cultural development of the nation by assembling collections of importance and making them
                    available for public use. Wright used Henry E. Huntington and Henry Clay Folger as exemplars of
                    collectors who have made such contributions.
            As befits a memento of the Bell Collection, the book is pleasing in format, well printed, and
                    handsomely bound. The colophon informs us that it was designed by Jane McCarthy, printed at the Lund
                    press, and bound at the A. J. Wahl Company.
            
               Indiana University Cecil K. Byrd
         
         
            
               The Nation and the State, Rivals or Partners? By William Anderson. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : The University of Minnesota Press, 1955, pp. xvi, 263. Bibliography and index.
                    $3.75.)
            A persistent question in American history has been how to draw the boundaries between state and
                    national powers  within a complex federal system so as to
                    provide essential operations of government while protecting the liberties of the people. Both past
                    and present generations have debated the issues with much vigor. Disagreement concerning the nature
                    of the Union led to civil war in the nineteenth century. During the twentieth century the imposing
                    growth of the national government has been deplored or defended by political, industrial, labor, and
                    educational leaders.
            Shortly after he took office, President Eisenhower, proceeding on the theory that some suspicious
                    changes had occurred in the previous twenty years, urged an extensive study of constitutional and
                    administrative aspects of the problem. Congress responded with a law establishing the Commission on
                    Intergovernmental Relations. That body, minus its originally appointed, crusading chairman, Clarence
                    Manion, submitted its report in June, 1955. Few recommendations for major reallocations of functions
                    were made, although the emphasis of the document was clearly favorable to increased activity by the
                    states.
            One member of the commission has written a book, The Nation and the States,
                    designed to inform the public about the background and present position of intergovernmental
                    relations. He is William Anderson, professor of political science at the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    , a long-time specialist in this field. Professor Anderson cautions the reader that his
                    suggestions for "constructive action" are his own and not those of the commission.
                    When this volume and the official report are compared, the differences are obvious. In fact,
                    Professor Anderson probably preferred the former as a vehicle for expressing his views, since he
                    attached few dissents to the report itself.
            The author skillfully surveys the principal functions of the national government, of the forty-eight
                    states, and of the more than 100,000 local units in the 
                        United States
                     (counties, cities, villages, towns, school districts, etc.). He shows that state and
                    local governments are far from becoming merely "administrative districts" and
                    indeed that they are expanding their operations instead of being choked off by a national leviathan.
                    A particularly valuable part of the book describes several of the fifty-two grants-in-aid programs
                    which have disturbed those persons, including many Hoosiers, who fear undue consolidation of power.
                    Professor Anderson believes that such undertakings as social security, highway construction,  and vocational education have been in the national interest and are national problems. But the states, acting as partners instead of
                    rivals of the nation, have also played an important role in formulating as well as executing these
                    policies. Furthermore, state administrative standards have been decidedly improved.
            Some attention is paid to the constitutional history which affords perspective on these matters. The
                    Union formed by the founding fathers is an indestructible one composed of indestructible states, as
                    Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase later said in 
                        
                            Texas
                        
                     v. White (1869). The intents of the "original framers" at 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1787 are explored, but the chief intent, in Professor Anderson's opinion,
                    was not to bind the nation to an inflexible Constitution, a "lawyers'
                    document." "Later framers"—the term is
                    interesting—inherited a practical instrument, adjustable and usable. This portion of The Nation and the States is not so satisfying to the historian interested in
                    details. Very little is said, for example, about the shifting spheres of national and state powers
                    over interstate commerce through the years. To explain the taxing-spending authority, the important
                    case of 
                        
                            United States
                        
                     v. 
                        
                            Butler
                        
                     (1936) and an opposite line of Supreme Court decisions should have been developed more fully.
            Nevertheless, Professor Anderson accomplishes his main purpose: to lay the fundamentals of the record
                    before the lay reader, not the scholar. He concludes that the general outline of the present system
                    should be retained, that cries for "returning" powers to the states should be
                    critically examined, and that the states themselves can do much to improve conditions by modernizing
                    their own constitutions and by giving local units the self-government which states'
                    righters frequently preach but do not practice.
            
               Indiana University Maurice G. Baxter
         
         
            
               Indians of the Southern Colonial Frontier: the Edmond Atkin Report and Plan of
                    1775. Edited with an Introduction by Wilbur R. Jacobs. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of South Carolina Press, 1954, pp. xxxviii, 108. Maps, illustrations,
                    bibliographical note, and index. $5.00.)
            This will be a welcome volume to all students of the Carolinian frontier in the eighteenth century
                    and of British  imperial policies in relation to Great
                    Britain's great duel with 
                        France
                     for empire. It presents two documents, not heretofore available, written by Atkin. He
                    was a loyal colonial imperialist holding important offices in 
                        South Carolina
                    , and a man of considerable wealth gained in large part in the Indian trade. The
                    author's scholarly and full introduction and his numerous footnotes present
                    Atkin's Report and Plan in excellent setting. His
                    research has taken him to 
                        Columbia
                    , S. C., 
                  Washington, Ottawa
               , and 
                        London
                    . The publishers have supported the editor in presenting his work in an attractive,
                    beautifully designed volume. It is the type of book which one expects a university press to publish.
            Atkin was sorely troubled by the confusion, selfish rivalries, and the lack of understanding,
                    statesmanship, and patriotism among both colonial and imperial leaders of the 1740's and
                    1750's, and so he poured out his heart and soul in trying to present to the powerful Board
                    of Trade a report describing in detail the important Indian tribes on the Carolinian and
                    Georgia's frontiers and their relations to French and English traders. These men often had
                    their eyes only upon immediate profit, and, at times, sold war goods even to the enemy. His Report, antedating by twenty years James Adair's famous book, History of the American Indians, published in 1775, is a valuable source of
                    information on the southern Indian tribes and British and French policies toward them.
            In his Plan Atkin urged the creation of a northern and a southern district with 
                        Canada
                     and 
                        Florida
                     as boundaries and separated by the Tennessee River. Each was to
                    have an imperial superintendent of Indian affairs with ample funds for forts, agents, interpreters,
                    gunsmiths, and missionaries, and power to control land purchases and Indian traders so that justice
                    would be done to the Indians and hence their friendship secured.
            The 1750's was a period in English history similar to the early years of the two recent
                    world wars. In all three cases it was a war of "John Bull the Unready" under weak
                    leadership until a Pitt, Lloyd George, or a Churchill emerged. Till then, Britain was losing battle
                    after battle. As in World War II American leaders followed a policy of "Europe
                    first" and denied the Pacific theater the men and supplies it needed, so in the
                    1750's British leaders favored the northern district and denied the southern district money
                    and supplies.  Quebec's capture was considered more
                    important than that of 
                        New Orleans
                    . It is in this setting that one must consider Atkin's record as superintendent
                    and his Report and Plan.
            The Board of Trade followed the major principles of Atkin's Plan and
                    appointed Sir William Johnson superintendent of the northern district and Atkin of the southern
                    district. The former was supported by General Loudoun with goods and money, whereas Atkin was given
                    but meager supplies. Atkin, unlike Johnson, could not get the co-operation of British military
                    leaders, colonial governors, and Indian chiefs, nor could he get along with Johnson and his chief
                    deputy, George Croghan. Atkin served from 1756 to 1761. Jacobs concludes that Atkin was unfitted for
                    his post, but that conditions in the southern district were so different from those in the northern
                    district that not even a strong man could have succeeded to the extent that Sir William Johnson did.
                    Atkin's statesmanlike plan for the management of Indian affairs, however, like
                    Johnson's policies, had much influence on Indian affairs, both during his lifetime and in
                    the decades that followed. This imperial plan met with but little favor and much opposition in the
                    thirteen colonies. As a result, bloody Indian wars accompanied the westward movement of the pioneer
                    frontier all along the way from 
                        Jamestown
                     and 
                        Plymouth
                     to 
                        Seattle
                     and 
                        San Francisco
                    . It became, however, the basis of Indian policy in 
                        Canada
                    , and its beneficent results enabled the white man to advance across this country
                    without costly wars.
            
               Ohio University A. T. Volwiler
         
         
            
               The Army Air Forces in World War II. Edited by Wesley Frank Craven and James Lea
                    Cate. Volume VI, Men and Planes. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of Chicago Press, 1955, pp. lii, 808. Illustrations, end maps, charts,
                    appendix, and index. $8.50.)
            With the appearance of this volume, the sixth in the projected seven of the official The
                        Army Air Forces in World War II, the stateside (Zone of Interior) phase of its activities
                    is told. The previous volumes in the series were concerned with combat activities in the several
                    theaters of operations from Pearl Harbor to Nagasaki. Men and Planes, as the
                    subtitle of this volume is designated, is concerned with the considerable number and variety of
                    activities that must be successfully accomplished before a plane can be airborne in combat.
            
            As in the series heretofore, Men and Planes likewise represents the research
                    efforts of several reputable scholars. In this instance there are six. In the first section,
                    "The Organization and Its Responsibilities," William A. Goss presents the impact
                    of the airplane on the makeup of military forces in World War II, the origins and organization of
                    the AAF, and the evolution that resulted from wartime lessons. Goss, P. Alan Bliss, and Frank
                    Futrell describe air defense of the 
                        United States
                     and to some extent the hemisphere. These interesting chapters should be made available
                    in pamphlet form for present day civil defense and other volunteer workers to give them a broader
                    understanding and appreciation of the role which they play today.
            The second division of this volume, "Equipment and Services," was written by Alfred
                    Goldberg. It is concerned with the development, production, allocation, and servicing of equipment,
                    and of the unprecedented collaboration of science, industry, and the military which made this
                    possible for the AAF. The unparalleled pressure of the war years forced greater attention to
                    research and development which pushed the ultimate limits of performance far beyond "even
                    the wildest flight of the imagination." This was especially true in efforts to develop an
                    intercontinental bomber, jet propulsion, and guided missiles, all commanding a considerable share of
                    consideration since the end of World War II as well. This is to say nothing of atomic energy and all
                    its allied ramifications.
            The third part of the volume, "Recruitment and Training," is the work of Arthur R.
                    Kooker and Thomas H. Greer. The eight chapters detail this phase of the AAF program considerably.
                    "The superior qualities of a given aircraft may be more than offset by the inferior skill
                    of the man who flies it" (p. 427); so a good argument can be given that the training
                    program was the greatest achievement of the stateside effort. Recruiting was not confined to the
                    hundreds of thousands needed to fill the quotas of flying and technical training schools because the
                    AAF became, principally in air depots, one of the largest of wartime users of civilian labor. Some
                    appreciation of the size of the personnel problem can be grasped when it is realized that during the
                    war four technical specialists were required for every man who flew; there were nearly seven ground
                    personnel to one flying; and sixteen individuals served in noncombattant assignments to every man
                    committed to air combat. In addition there were several thousand foreign nationals who were given
                    instruction of various sorts with the AAF.
            
            The value of Men and Planes needs to be assessed as a unit in itself and as a
                    volume of the series. It contains new aspects which enhance its usefulness, such as the numerous
                    helpful charts that visualize statistics, and an appendix of "AAF Staff and Command
                    Assignments, June 1941 - August 1945." In a way more apparent than in earlier volumes, it
                    becomes editorial to the point of sacrificing some of its unusual objectivity. At times, Chapter X,
                    for example, it becomes entirely too statistical. This reviewer will forgive the apparent derogation
                    of a lawyer, an executive, a politician, a public relations counselor, "or just a college
                    professor" (p. 39), as a slip of the tongue. Finally, it should be mentioned, the first
                    thirty-nine pages of the foreword present a very helpful summary that restores the perspective so
                    easily lost in the great mass of detail in the volume.
            
               Miami University Dwight L. Smith
         
         
            
               River of Destiny: The Saint Marys. By Joseph E. and Estelle L. Bayliss, in
                    collaboration with Milo M. Quaife. (
                        Detroit
                    : Wayne University Press, 1955, pp. ix, 328. End maps, illustrations, notes, and index.
                    $4.75.)
            Joseph and Estelle Bayliss offer the present volume as an expression of their love for the region and
                    river with which most of their lives have been identified. They note in the preface that their
                    collaborator, Milo M. Quaife, has done the sixteen chapters of Part 1, a general historical
                    narrative, while they have been principally responsible for the seven chapters comprising Part 2,
                    entitled "Local History with Recollections of Persons, Places, and Events."
            Quaife, the dean of middle western historians, writes with that change of pace which Professor R. C.
                    Buley found so delightful in the former's 
                        Lake Michigan
                    . (See Professor Buley's review in the December, 1944, issue of the Indiana Magazine of History.) The account of the rise and fall of 
                        New France
                     has the standard documentation, ranging from Jesuit Relations to the
                    books of Louise P. Kellogg and Grace Lee Nute. However, the latter gave less than a page in her 
                        Lake Superior
                     (1944) to the unsolved murder of James L. Schoolcraft in 1846, whereas Quaife has devoted a
                    whole chapter entitled "The Perfect Crime." Furthermore, in his discussion of the
                    international boundary dispute involving the St. Marys River, Quaife presents
                    information neglected by many authors of textbooks on American diplomatic history, Julius W. Pratt
                    being an exception.
            
            Mr. and Mrs. Bayliss are uniquely qualified to write the local history of the area. Bayliss came to
                    Sault Ste. Marie in 1878. He has been a pilot on the St. Marys River, a
                    prospector in the Klondike gold rush of 1898, a mailman, a sheriff, a state legislator, and has
                    engaged in other pursuits. While being a jack-of-all-trades, his interest in county and state
                    history has been constant. He is an honorary life member of the Algonquin Club of 
                        Detroit
                    . The grandfather of Mrs. Bayliss was one of the earliest settlers on 
                        St. Joseph
                    's Island and her father was a Great Lakes ship captain. She has been a school
                    teacher and collaborator with her husband in historical writing. Their knowledge of the islands of
                    the St. Marys River and their acquaintance with the people and events of the
                    past sixty years are indeed remarkable. The historians dwell on such personages as Jean Baptiste
                    Cadotte, John Askin, Alexander Henry, John Johnston, Henry R. School-craft, and Bishop Frederick
                    Baraga. Mr. and Mrs. Bayliss give recognition as well to lesser publicized figures such as Peter B.
                    Barbeau, General Hugh Brady, Samuel Ashmun, Francis H. Clergue, and James W. Curran.
            Mr. and Mrs. Bayliss state in the preface that the publication of the volume has been timed to
                    coincide with the centennial celebrations of the completion of the State Canal and Lock which
                    brought many visitors to Sault Ste. Marie in the summer of 1955. Many persons probably have never
                    heard of any lock besides the one built by Charles T. Harvey. As a matter of fact, the twenty-foot
                    rapids had originally been by-passed on the Canadian side by a small canal and lock constructed in
                    the late 1790's to facilitate the activities of the North West Company and had been
                    partially destroyed by the Americans during the War of 1812. Chapter XII is concerned largely with
                    the so-called Harvey Lock but calls attention to the later ones, viz. the Weitzel, Poe, Davis,
                    Sabin, and McArthur locks.
            The reviewer would not be so brash as to take issue with Quaife in the field of his specialization or
                    to quibble with Mr. and Mrs. Bayliss regarding the first name of the judge who served at the
                    Canadian Sault from 1907 to 1911. He does consider the brief reference to the famous senatorial
                    contest of 1918 misleading (p. 298). Although Henry Ford made a gesture toward securing the
                    Republican nomination in the open primary, he ran at the request of President Wilson. As the
                    Democratic nominee he lost by a narrow margin to Truman H. Newberry, thereby giving the Republicans
                    a bare majority in the United States Senate.
            
            In addition to its intrinsic historical value the book will be a delight to those interested in
                    bookmaking. It is set in Baskerville and Eden types, printed on Garamond antique paper, and bound in
                    Holliston Roxite with linen finish. It will be particularly appreciated by those readers who enjoyed
                    Otto Fowle's Sault Ste. Marie and Its Great Waterway (1925) and Walter
                    Havighurst's The Long Ships Passing (1942), as well as an earlier volume
                    by the same authors, Historic 
                            St. Joseph
                         Island (1938).
            
               Northern Michigan College Max P. Allen
         
         
            
               The Battle Cry of Freedom: The 
                            New England
                         Emigrant Aid Company in the 
                            Kansas
                         Crusade. By Samuel A. Johnson. (Lawrence: University of Kansas Press, 1954,
                    pp. xii, 357. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, and index. $5.00.)
            There is reason to believe that some of the books on 
                        Kansas
                     published in 1954 can fairly be classified as potboilers, with no importance as
                    historical studies. Happily, The Battle Cry of Freedom does not belong in that
                    category. Professor Johnson of Harris Teachers College, 
                        St. Louis
                    , was probing source materials long before the centennial of the Kansas-Nebraska Act.
                    The chances are that he would have brought out his volume at about this time with or without
                    anniversaries to celebrate.
            Not only 
                        Nebraska
                    -
                        Kansas
                     experts but that larger army of historians interested in origins of the Civil War will
                    find The Battle Cry of Freedom helpful and even stimulating. Virtually throughout
                    his pages, Johnson's style does him credit; some of the duller incidents test his
                    sprightliness, and he successfully meets the challenge. Attention is centered primarily on the 
                        New England
                     Emigrant Aid Company, its origins, influence, membership, methods, and particularly its
                    leaders. But other groups, communities, and individual settlers, having little or no direct
                    connection with Amos A. Lawrence or Eli Thayer, are included in the picture. Since the author is
                    concerned with the 
                        Kansas
                     "crusade" as a whole, as well as with the N.E.E.A.C., he is warranted
                    in extending his canvas and in painting a mural rather than a miniature. For this decision, and for
                    a large part of the execution, students of history will be grateful.
            No other geographical areas of the antebellum days were peopled by more colorful personalities than
                    the 
                        Kansas
                    
                     of 1854-1858 or the 
                  Massachusetts, Missouri
               , and 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , which affected 
                        Kansas
                     so significantly. From Thayer and Lawrence to Indiana's James H. Lane,
                    President Franklin Pierce, Governors Andrew H. Reeder and Wilson Shannon, David Rice Atchison,
                    Charles Robinson, and "Captain" John Brown, scheming, arresting, timorous, or
                    fanatical figures of the fifties are re-created here. And then the lives and deaths of 
                        Kansas
                     towns, beleaguered blockhouses, barricaded hotels, the bluff and rant of border
                    ruffians, and cool intrigues of 
                        New England
                     businessmen give variety of pace and tempo. Johnson is basically a scholar, disinclined
                    to sacrifice detail for the sake of drama. Therefore one finds pedestrian passages which the general
                    reader may decide to slight. But the author has an eye for color, too, capitalizing on the many 
                        Kansas
                     crises to gain and hold the reader's attention. You are in for some
                    excitement, as well as information, when you pick up The Battle Cry of Freedom.
            
               
                        Kansas
                     specialists will be interested in learning that Professor Johnson is aware of, but not
                    usually in accord with, the views of the late Frank H. Hodder on some highly important points. James
                    C. Malin of the University of 
                        Kansas
                     has looked askance at the assertion that arms were furnished northerners in 
                        Kansas
                     by individuals and not by the company. This is "a distinction without a
                    difference," said Professor Malin; Johnson agrees, but finds it impossible to go along with
                    the Malin thesis that it was also "a contemptible pretense." On p. 128, Johnson
                    says: "A man like Amos A. Lawrence would not stoop to pretense. He and his associates
                    believed honestly that they were entirely free to do as individuals things that would have been
                    grossly improper in an organization like the Emigrant Aid Company." The reviewer, in this
                    regard, subscribes to the Malin interpretation. On p. 299, Johnson himself concludes that the
                    company "armed the free-state settlers," which in fact it did—albeit by
                    indirection.
            The tone of the book as a whole is friendly to the antislavery cause, the company, and especially its
                    guiding spirit. Nevertheless, the Johnson work contains numerous and striking examples of
                    objectivity. From a bookmaking standpoint, there are also many things in its favor. The notes are in
                    the back, but a degree of compensation is provided by a clear listing of pages to which the notes
                    refer. The index is excellent; very infrequently, names of minor men are omitted. If General P. F.
                    Smith did not happen to spell his first  name
                    "Percifer," exceptions to the rule of almost faultless technical accuracy are rare
                    indeed.
            Johnson has taken into consideration many dozens of 
                        Kansas
                     sources—manuscript letters, account books, articles, and monographs, in
                    addition to book-length treatments of principal topics. The documentation is painstaking, the most
                    extreme example being p. 184 with its six note references in twelve lines of narrative. The fact
                    that this passage refers to John Brown's connection with Amos A. Lawrence and the company
                    justifies the extra effort to nail down each statement.
            Did 
                        Kansas
                     "bleed" more than other areas of the American frontier and
                    near-frontier? Was part of the 
                        Kansas
                     "crisis" artificial? Did economic motives affect the
                    "crusade"? These and related questions will be asked as long as 
                        Kansas
                     fact and legend continue to arouse intellectual curiosity. Johnson comes to grips with
                    several of the most provocative issues in his final chapter and elsewhere. Aside from turning in a
                    most commendable job on the company's institutional history, he has dared to take a stand
                    on many a controversial subject. Disagree as they may with some opinions expressed in The Battle Cry of Freedom, fair-minded critics will admire Johnson's book on many
                    counts and will rate it one of the best recent additions to the expanding shelves of 
                        Kansas
                     literature.
            
               University of 
                            Kentucky
                        
                Holman Hamilton
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                         and the Know Nothing Movement. By Charles Granville Hamilton. (
                        Washington, D.C.
                    : Public Affairs Press, 1954, pp. 24. $1.00.)
            This brief monograph is one of a series recently begun by the Public Affairs Press to expedite the
                    publication of scholarly items, especially in the area of the liberal arts and the sciences, more
                    inexpensively than heretofore. In this 
                        Hamilton
                     seeks to determine which voters made possible Republican success—and thus
                    the election of 
                        Lincoln
                    —in 1860.
            His thesis is that the Know Nothings were the essential factor in explaining Republican victory in
                    1860. He cites detailed election data to buttress his thesis. Those who have supported the
                    proposition that the Germans added the element of victory in 1860 will find it hard to accept 
                        Hamilton
                    's conclusion that the Know Nothings were of greater importance than this
                    foreign element.
            Even though he has accumulated an impressive volume of 
                    statistical data to support his thesis, 
                        Hamilton
                    's emphasis on the voting behavior of a segment as difficult to identify and
                    isolate as the Know Nothings poses difficulties in the intepretation of data. These difficulties are
                    compounded because of the quagmires and booby traps which beset the historian who leans heavily on
                    analyses of voting totals by counties and states for his basic evidence.
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               Spring Mill: Hidden Valley Village. By Norman C. Evans. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Published by the author, 1953, pp. 148. Illustrations. $2.50.)
            Evans has written approximately 150 pages about the history and traditions of Spring Mill. His book
                    is an interesting reminder of pioneer ways and it serves to inform Hoosiers that Spring Mill State
                    Park is a particularly appropriate place to preserve and add memorials concerning pioneer life.
                    Unfortunately the sources for quotations are not generally indicated and at times it appears that
                    statements used are those appropriate to the situations described. Nevertheless, Evans has
                    recaptured much of the atmosphere of pioneering and the numerous visitors to the park today would
                    generally have an increased appreciation of the history, traditions, flora and fauna, as well as the
                    natural setting of this site, if they would read this little volume.
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            Papers of Alexander Hamilton
            The following communication has been received from Harold C. Syrett, executive editor of Columbia
                    University's edition of the papers of Alexander Hamilton:
            "Columbia University is preparing for publication a new and complete edition of the papers
                    of Alexander Hamilton.
            "The editors wish to locate any letters to or from 
                        Hamilton
                     and any other 
                        Hamilton
                     documents that are in private hands. If any one possesses such documents, the editors
                    would greatly appreciate any information on their whereabouts and availability.
            Very truly yours,
            Harold C. Syrett
            The Papers of Alexander Hamilton Columbia University 
                        New York
                     27, N.Y."
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
