
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 81, Issue 2, pages 101-199. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:81+issue:2+year:1985&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Military Response of the Society of Friends in Indiana to the Civil War
            
                    Jacquelyn S. Nelson
                    ∗
                
            As the dark clouds of the Civil War hovered over the 
                        United States
                     in the spring and summer of 1861, members of a small denomination known as the
                    Religious Society of Friends, or Quakers, were beset with an agonizing moral quandary. Their
                    longstanding adherence to the peace testimony—that all wars were unlawful in the eyes of
                    God—stood in marked contrast to the great moral issue of liberating the slaves. For years
                    Quakers, who inaugurated the antislavery movement, had toiled relentlessly to ameliorate the black
                    man's impoverished existence. Now, their fervent commitment to the bondsmen's
                    emancipation and their love of country competed with their traditional pacifist beliefs.
            Although this conflict of conscience confronted Quakers all over the nation, this essay concentrates
                    on those Friends who lived in Indiana during the war years, 1861–1865. Indiana provides
                    fertile ground for an examination of 
                        Quaker
                     responses to war. In the aftermath of Fort Sumter this midwestern state, under the
                    adroit leadership of Governor Oliver P. Morton, enthusiastically supported President Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    's efforts to restore the Union. Men flocked by the thousands to enroll for
                    military duty, and citizens in scores of Indiana communities aided the military venture through
                    voluntary donations of money and materiel. Caught up in the wartime excitement, the Quakers of
                    Indiana could hardly ignore the martial spirit which had engulfed their neighbors and friends. As a
                    group, the Quakers composed less than 2 percent of the total population of the state on the eve
                        
                  
                     ∗ Jacquelyn S. Nelson is assistant professor of
                            history/political science at 
                                Vincennes
                             University, 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana.
               
                     of southern secession. Between 16,000 and 20,000 Friends,
                    organized into monthly, quarterly, and yearly meetings, resided in approximately thirty Indiana
                    counties. (See appendix.) In addition to personal correspondence, cemetery records, public
                    documents, and secondary references, church records of fifty-five monthly meetings in twenty-seven
                    counties were consulted in the preparation of this essay. (See appendix.) Analysis of these rich
                    primary sources focuses upon those Friends who challenged two centuries of 
                        Quaker
                     thought on war and took up arms in defense of the 
                        United States
                    .
            From the onset of war, two of the yearly meetings to which Hoosier Quakers
                    belonged—Indiana Yearly Meeting and Western Yearly Meeting—steadfastly urged
                    Friends to adhere to Biblical teachings and abstain from all war-related activities. Quakers were
                    encouraged to follow the Gospel and do all things that made for peace: "Blessed are the
                    peacemakers for they shall be called the children of God."1 As the
                    conflict progressed, however, some Friends joined the armed forces. In response, the admonitions of
                    Indiana Yearly Meeting concerning military service increased in intensity and earnestness of
                    condemnation. In 1862 Indiana Yearly Meeting expressed regret at 
                        Quaker
                     military involvement in the war. Although Friends felt much sympathy for these men, the
                    yearly meeting warned them not "to give way to do what your conscience
                        condemns."2 Two years later the same body recorded its
                    "emphatic disavowal of all such services, as contrary to the Gospel of Christ, and ... our
                    religious society."3 Similar statements also came from the yearly
                    meetings in 
                        London
                     and 
                        Dublin
                     and from the editors of 
                        Quaker
                     publications.4 Unquestionably, the wording of these sharp and
                    unequivocal reprimands shows that the 
                        Quaker
                     hierarchy demanded a non-compromising allegiance to the peace testimony.
            Assertions of the traditional belief that war is un-Christian have led historians erroneously to
                    assume that few Friends actively participated in the Civil War. Margaret H. Bacon, historian and
                    author of The Quiet Rebels, stated that only two or three hundred 
                  
                     1 Epistle from the Meeting for Sufferings of Western Yearly Meeting,
                            quoted in Minutes of 
                                Fairfield
                             Monthly Meeting of Men Friends held at 
                                Fairfield
                            , Hendricks County, Indiana, May 9, 1861 (Indiana Historical Society Library,
                            Indiana State Library and Historical Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     2
                     Minutes of the Indiana Yearly Meeting of Friends (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1862), 14–15.
                  
                     3
                     Ibid. (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1864), 9–10.
                  
                     4 Minutes of 
                                Fairfield
                             Monthly Meeting of Men Friends, July 11, 1861; 
                                Chester
                             Forrester Dunham, The Attitude of the Northern Clergy toward the
                                South, 1860–1865 (
                        Toledo, Ohio
                     , 19421,
                            117–18.
               
                    
                    
                  FRIENDS MEETING HOUSE,
                                RICHMOND, INDIANA, 1859, SKETCHED
                            BY LEFEVRE CRANSTONE
                  
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloornington
               
                     Quakers enlisted in the entire Union army, but that the largest
                    number of them enrolled from Indiana.5 Historian Margaret E. Hirst noted that
                    Indiana Yearly Meeting of 1862 received reports that one hundred of their members from five monthly
                    meetings had volunteered for the army; a "considerable number" from ten additional
                    meetings also served. Had there been even two hundred serving from the latter ten congregations, the
                    author declared, the total would have remained at only three hundred soldiem6
            
            In a study of the attitude of the northern clergy toward the South during the war years, historian 
                        Chester
                     Dunham wrote that when actual fighting commenced, Quakers maintained their pacifistic
                    principles just as they had since colonial days. Quite simply, Friends believed that war was
                    irreconcilable with the teachings of Christ and refused to participate in the hostilities.7 Historian Emma Lou Thornbrough recorded that "some" Quakers
                    volunteered for military duty, and Stephen Weeks wrote only that some young Friends in the North
                    joined the Federal army.8 Eminent 
                        Quaker
                     historian Rufus Jones commented that while deviations from the peace testimony occurred
                    more frequently than expected, the total number of 
                        Quaker
                     soldiers "appears small." Possibly three hundred members of Indiana
                    Yearly Meeting, asserted Jones, took up arms in the Civil War. Moreover, of those Quakers who joined
                    the armed forces more came from urban areas than from rural meetings.9 Elbert
                    Russell and Peter Brock, both of whom relied heavily on Jones's work, reached the same
                    conclusion: only a small number of Friends enrolled for military duty.10
            
            But the preceding historians, as with most historical scholars, did not undertake systematic studies
                    to determine how many Quakers took up arms in the conflict. Heretofore, generalizations on the
                    numbers of Quakers in uniform during the Civil War have been based on "probabilities and
                    surmise rather than statistical fact."11 As a matter of fact, Jones
                    wrote that it was impossible "to 
                  
                     5 Margaret H. Bacon, The Quiet Rebels: The Story of the
                                Quakers in America (
                                New York
                            , 1969), 116.
                  
                     6 Margaret E. Hirst, The Quakers in Peace and War (
                                London
                            , Eng., 1923), 424.
                  
                     7 Dunham, Attitude of the Northern Clergy, 117.
                  
                     8 Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                                1850–1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965), 627; Stephen B. Weeks, Southern Quakers and Slavery: A
                                Study in Institutional History (
                                Baltimore
                            , Md., 1896), 303.
                  
                     9 Rufus M. Jones, The Later Periods of Quakerism (2
                            vols., 
                                London
                            , Eng., 1921), II, 729, 737, 738.
                  
                     10 Elbert Russell, The History of Quakerism (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 410; Peter Brock, Pacifism in the 
                                    United States
                                 from the Colonial Era to the First World War (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1968), 727.
                  
                     11 Brock, Pacifism in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 727.
               
                     discover the total number of these 
                        Quaker
                     volunteers."12 Furthermore, the emphasis in the historical
                    writing of American wars, especially the Civil War, has centered upon the Friends as pacifists and
                    conscientious objectors, not as combatants.13
            
            The Society of Friends, however, has long known that many of its members served in the Civil War. But
                    even Friends' estimates of 
                        Quaker
                     participation in the armed forces have been underappraised. The authors of a history of
                    Jericho Friends Meeting in 
                        Randolph County
                     wrote that when the war began, many Quakers found it difficult to distinguish between
                    what was good in abolishing slavery and bad about using war to accomplish that goal. Inevitably, the
                    slavery issue prompted a large number of young men from Jericho Meeting to volunteer for military
                        duty.14 The 
                        Quaker
                     community of 
                        Carthage
                     echoed similar sentiments. In spite of 
                        Quaker
                     opposition to all wars, "quite a few" Friends enlisted in military
                    service from this small 
                        Rush County
                     town.15 In "History of 
                        New Salem
                     Church" (
                        Howard County
                    ), the author noted that with the commencement of the Civil War, "a few
                    members" of the meeting joined the armed forces.16 Except for the
                    writer of the account of the 
                        Randolph County
                     meeting, who listed the names of sixteen 
                        Quaker
                     volunteers, the authors of these and other histories of monthly meetings generally made
                    no attempts to determine an accurate number of Friends who bore arrns.17
            
            George W. Julian, a prominent Indiana politician whose mother was a 
                        Quaker
                     from 
                        Wayne County
                    , wrote in 1895 that 
                  
                     12 Jones, Later Periods, II,729.
                  
                     13 The author found one historian who noted that many Quakers enrolled
                            for military duty. See Bernhard Knollenberg, Pioneer Sketches of the Upper
                                Whitewater Valley: 
                                    Quaker
                                 Stronghold of the West (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol.
                            XV, No. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1945), 118–19. See also Kenneth Alan Radbill,
                            "Socioeconomic Backgrounds of Nonpacifist Quakers during the American
                            Revolution" (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                                Arizona
                            , 1971). For works concerning Quakers and pacifism see the following: Edward
                            Needles Wright, Conscientious Objectors in the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1931); Lillian Schlissel, ed., Conscience in America: A
                                Documentary History of Conscientious Objection in America, 1757–1967 (
                                New York
                            , 1968); Brock, Pacifism in the 
                                    United States
                                ; and Peter Brock, "Colonel 
                                Washington
                             and the 
                                Quaker
                             Conscientious Objector," 
                        
                                    Quaker
                                 History, LIII (Spring, 1964), 12–26.
                  
                     14 R.C. Brumfield and Willard C. Heiss, Jericho
                                Friends' Meeting and Its Community, 
                                    Randolph County
                                , Indiana, 1818 to 1958 (
                                Ann Arbor
                            , Mich., 1958), 53–54.
                  
                     15 "Brief History of 
                                Carthage
                             Friends Meeting," 1939 (typed copy, 
                                Rushville
                             Public Library, 
                                Rushville
                            , Indiana), 12.
                  
                     16 J.B. Freeman, "History of 
                                New Salem
                             Church," taken from a 
                                Kokomo
                             newspaper, circa 1932, and microfilmed with the Minutes of 
                                New Salem
                             Monthly Meeting (Indiana Historical Society Library).
                  
                     17 See also Ludovic Fields and Clayton Fields, "History of 
                                Westfield
                             Monthly Meeting of Friends," n.d. (typed manuscript, 
                                Noblesville
                             Public Library, 
                                Noblesville
                            , Indiana); and Ethyl Clark Horney and George W. Moore, "The Hinkle
                            Creek Friends," 1966 (typed manuscript, 
                                Noblesville
                             Public Library).
               
                     the Quakers of Indiana Yearly Meeting not only had a good
                    antislavery record but a record of patriotism: "I think it is conceded that in proportion
                    to their number they had more soldiers in the war for the Union than any other religious
                        denornination."18 Willard Heiss, 
                        Quaker
                     and historian, wrote that "many" Quakers served in the Civil War.19 Finally, letters written by Friends during the war also disclosed that many
                    Quakers marched off to the battlefield. One 
                        Quaker
                    , for example, wrote: "23 of our Springboro Boys going to start away ... for
                    the Army."20 Another letter recorded that the southern rebellion had
                    become so serious that "thousands" of 
                        Quaker
                     boys all over America were going into the army.21
            
            Just how many Indiana Quakers joined the northern armies between 1861 and 1865? And how did the
                    monthly meetings deal with these veterans during the war years and after they returned home from the
                    battlefield? Because the question of the number of Friends who enrolled for military duty is
                    inextricably intertwined with the treatment of Friends by the monthly meetings, the latter question
                    must be addressed first. In the midst of the war virtually all monthly meetings, recognizing that
                    some of their members had violated the peace testimony, attempted to extend care to those
                    individuals. Once each year, in response to the annual questions, or "queries," on
                    the religious and moral health of the meetings, most congregations reported that some Friends had
                    strayed from the principles of peace and were guilty of engaging in military services. Never was the
                    name of an individual listed in such statements, but a few of the meetings did include the specific
                    number of Quakers who they believed had violated church discipline. In September, 1861, for example, 
                        Back Creek
                     Monthly Meeting of Men in 
                        Grant County
                     recorded with some alarm that eighteen members had borne arms.22
                    
                        Hopewell
                     Monthly Meeting 
                  
                     18 George W. Julian to Stephen Weeks, September 18, 1895, quoted in
                            Weeks, Southern Quakers, 306n.
                  
                     19 Willard Heiss, ed., Abstracts of the Records of the
                                Society of Friends in Indiana: Encyclopedia of American 
                                    Quaker
                                 Genealogy (6 parts and index, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1962–1981), I, xix.
                  
                     20 Lydia Stanton to Miriam W. Green, January 22, 1865, Miriam Green
                            Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library). The "Springboro" referred to
                            in this letter is probably Springborough in 
                                Warren County
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            . While technically outside the border of Indiana, many Ohio Quakers had close
                            ties with their counterparts in Indiana as evidenced by the letter which was written to a
                            Hoosier Friend.
                  
                     21 Letter written by William Stubbs Elliott, quoted in James O. Bond,
                            "He Carried Three Packs: A Biography of Elisha Mills," n.d. (typed
                            manuscript in the 
                                Noblesville
                             Public Library, 
                                Noblesville
                            , Indiana). This is obviously an exaggeration but does reflect that there was
                            much war sentiment among 
                                Quaker
                             young men.
                  
                     22 Minutes of 
                                Back Creek
                             Monthly Meeting of Men Friends held at 
                        Back
                                    Creek, Grant County
                     ,
                            Indiana, September 19, 1861 (Indiana Historical Society Library).
               
                    
                    
                  Map Prepared by Cathryn L. Lombardi.
               
                     in 
                        Henry County
                     also penned its concern when it noted that fifteen members had volunteered for the
                        army.23 These statements frequently concluded with the phrase "some
                    care taken." Presumably, the meetings attempted to counsel their errant soldiers.
            The Discipline of the Society of Friends clearly explained the potential penalty for serving in the
                    military. Violators of the peace testimony faced possible disownment (loss of membership) if
                    counselling and advice proved ineffectual in convincing them to seek absolution for their combative
                        conduct.24 The monthly meetings, however, generally waited until the war was
                    over before confronting the individuals who had joined the army. Some cases of military service
                    remained unreported until 1870, five years after the fighting had ceased.
            Once the monthly meetings received information that a member had committed military transgressions,
                    two Friends were appointed to visit the individual and report at an ensuing meeting. Any 
                        Quaker
                     who desired to maintain his membership within the Society of Friends could produce an
                    "offering" or "acknowledgement" admitting his wrongdoing and, if
                    the meeting accepted it, remain a member in good standing. Also referred to as
                    "condemning" one's behavior, these apologies were usually brief and
                    simply stated in written notes signed by those beseeching forgiveness. The following offering from
                    the minutes of 
                        Raysville
                     Monthly Meeting in 
                        Henry County
                     is a representative example of expiation: 
                        I herein acknowledge that I have deviated from the principles of the society of friends by
                            enlisting in the service of the U. S. and am convinced that war and the principles actuating
                            it are wrong and inconsistant [sic] with the Christian religion[.] I wish
                            friends to pass my deviation by and continue me as a member as my future conduct may
                                deserve.25
                  
                    
            
            Some Quakers, fearful of being disciplined by the monthly meetings, penned offerings in advance of
                    receiving treatment from Friends. Such apologies, although few in number, were called "free
                    will" acknowledgments. The mother of a young 
                        Quaker
                     veteran, for example, who was worried that a complaint against her son, Jose, would be
                    brought before the meeting, wanted someone to counsel her son for his infraction. She wanted Jose to
                    acknowledge that his military course of action was "inconsistent with the 
                  
                     23 Minutes of 
                                Hopewell
                             Monthly Meeting of Men Friends held at 
                        Hopewell, Henry County
                     ,
                            Indiana, August 17, 1861, ibid.
                  
                     24
                            The Discipline of the Society of Friends, of Indiana Yearly Meeting (
                                Richmond
                            , Ind., 1864), 45.
                  
                     25 Minutes of 
                                Raysville
                             Monthly Meeting of Men Friends held at 
                        Raysville, Henry County
                     ,
                            Indiana, September 23, 1865 (Indiana Historical Society Library).
               
                     principals [sic] of peace," to avoid
                    any impending disciplinary action which might sour him on the Society.26
            
            Despite the fact that they were often solicited and were frequently a prerequisite for remaining a
                    member of the Society of Friends, condemnations reveal that some Quakers admitted fault for having
                    enrolled in military service. Moreover, there was no feeling of triumph for these men; many were
                    truly sorry for their military actions. Early in the war a professor at Earlham College wrote that
                    some of the Quakers who had returned home from the battlefield "look with sorrow on their
                    past course and are striving to justify themselves."27 In all,
                    approximately 220 Indiana 
                        Quaker
                     veterans conceded guilt for this breach of faith.28
            
            A large number of veterans from virtually all monthly meetings whose records were examined, however,
                    refused to admit wrongdoing for their military involvement. If Quakers denied any wrongdoing in
                    their martial actions, the committee that dealt with them reported the soldiers as "treated
                    without satisfaction." After a period of deliberation the meeting either extended
                    additional care to those Quakers, in hopes of eliciting acknowledgments, or disowned them. If the
                    monthly meeting chose the latter course of action, "testifications" of disownment
                    were written and read at a subsequent meeting. The committees later informed the ex-soldiers of the
                    decisions against them. The following disownment was excerpted from the 
                        Raysville
                     Monthly Meeting minutes of July, 1866: 
                        Robert Parker who has had a right of membership in the religious society of Friends, has so
                            far deviated from the peaceable principles held by our society as to enlist in the Armies of
                            the 
                                United States
                             and do military service therein for which he has been treated with, without
                            being brought to see the error of his course. We therefore disown him from being a member
                            with us.29
                  
                     One hundred forty-eight 
                        Quaker
                     soldiers lost membership within their respective local assemblages for involvement in
                    military operations.30
            
            Thus, close scrutiny of the 
                        Quaker
                     minutes recorded between 1861 and 1870 reveals that 368 Indiana Friends bore arms in
                    the 
                  
                     26 Rachel [no last name] to Ann [Pleas?], January 1, 1866, Susan
                            Unthank Collection, ibid.
                  
                     27 Joseph Moore to John Hodgkin, June 3, 1862, Joseph Moore Papers
                            (Lilly Library, Earlham College, 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana). Moore taught geology and botany at Earlham.
                  
                     28 This number was reached after a close examination of all monthly
                            meeting minutes available.
                  
                     29 Minutes of 
                                Raysville
                             Monthly Meeting of Men Friends, July 28, 1866.
                  
                     30 This number was reached after a close examination of all monthly
                            meeting minutes available.
               
                     Civil War and either apologized or were disowned for their
                    martial conduct. But there were others. Besides the aforementioned Friends, 236 Indiana Quakers died
                    in the war. Research also shows that an additional 596 Quakers took up arms in the conflict but
                    avoided all disciplinary action by the monthly meetings. Hence, the number of documented cases of 
                        Quaker
                     participation in military service is 1,198, well above any of the estimates of previous
                    writings, 
                        Quaker
                     or non-
                        Quaker
                    . (See appendix.)
            Numbers alone, however, are misleading in a state in which more than 200,000 men and boys took up
                    arms for their country's cause.31 Based on this sole statistic, the
                    number of 
                        Quaker
                     military men appears insignificant. Sixty-two percent of all Indiana males between the
                    ages of fifteen and forty-nine bore arms in the Civil War.32 In contrast, the
                    percentage of Friends in service in the same age range lies between 21 and 27 percent.33 Although there is a wide gap between the number of Friends in uniform and the total for
                    the state of Indiana, the proportion of 
                        Quaker
                     males, aged fifteen through forty-nine who joined a military company is much higher
                    than previous estimates, which ranged from 6 to 7.5 percent.34
            
            Another way to determine the significance of 
                        Quaker
                     involvement in the war is to compare the number of military Friends with the number of
                    those who claimed exemption from military service because of religious scruples. Under President 
                        Lincoln
                    's call of August, 1862, for 300,000 men to serve nine months, all able-bodied
                    white male citizens between the ages of eighteen and forty-five were required to enroll in the state
                        militia.35 Those 
                  
                     31 W. H. H. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General of
                                the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1865–1869), Statistics and Documents, I, 5. The exact number is
                            208,367.
                  
                     32 The percentage was computed by dividing 208,367, the total number
                            of soldiers, by 334,310, the total number of males aged 15–49 in Indiana as
                            reported by the Federal Census of 1860.
                  
                     33 According to the Federal Census of 1860, the percentage of males of
                            the total Indiana population in the 15–49 age bracket was 24.8, computed by
                            dividing 334,310, the total male population 15–49, by 1,350,428. Multiplying
                            16,000 and 20,000 by 24.8 percent yields, approximately, 4,000 (3,968) to 5,000 (4,960) 
                                Quaker
                             males between the ages of 15 and 49. The above percentages were computed by
                            dividing 1,079, the number of 
                                Quaker
                             males belonging to Indiana Yearly Meeting or Western Yearly Meeting who
                            enrolled for military duty, by 4,000 and 5,000. The remaining 119 soldiers were Hicksite
                            Quakers for whom the author has no population figures. An analysis of seventeen Indiana
                            monthly meetings that included membership statistics in their minutes in 1865 reveals that
                            approximately 24 percent of their men aged 15–49 participated in military service
                            during the Civil War. This statistic supports and adds credence to the percentages found for
                            Quakers in the entire state of Indiana.
                  
                     34 The above percentages were calculated by dividing 300, the top
                            estimate, by 4,000 and 5,000.
                  
                     35 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I,
                            40–43.
               
                     Friends who remained staunchly committed to the peace testimony
                    and refused to volunteer for military service could append to their signatures the phrase
                    "conscientiously opposed to bearing arms."36 Registration
                    records show that 2,170 Friends, nearly 1,000 more than the total who bore arms, so identified
                    themselves. But in at least eight Indiana counties the number of Quakers in uniform exceeded the
                    number of "conscientious" Friends.37
                    
                        Grant County
                    , for example, sent 124 Friends off to war while 119 Friends expressed opposition to
                    fighting. Jay County enrollment records list six as "conscientious," but twenty
                    Quakers took the field. And 
                        Madison County
                    
                    
                        Quaker
                     records show that 32 men joined the armed forces, yet only 16 Friends remained faithful
                    to their antiwar tenet. The largest disparity in convictions occurred in 
                        Orange County
                     where 19 Friends voiced religious scruples against war while 63 took up arms.38
            
            Conversely, militia enrollment records also show that in a few counties the proportion of 
                        Quaker
                     soldiers to those Friends who were "conscientious" was extremely
                    small. At Sugar Plain Monthly Meeting in 
                        Boone County
                    , for example, 60 Friends requested "conscientious" status while only
                    6 bore arms. Pipe Creek Monthly Meeting in 
                        Miami County
                     sent 13 soldiers into the army while 113 were designated as
                        "conscientious."39 Apparently some 
                        Quaker
                     communities contained more antiwar sentiment than others.
            In addition to the underappraisal of 
                        Quaker
                     participation in the Civil War by most historians, one writer, Thomas C. Drake,
                    asserted that on the whole there was no mass enlistment of Friends into the armed forces. According
                    to him, those who did volunteer for active duty broke away from the 
                        Quaker
                     majority as individuals, not as a group.40 Drake's
                    analysis of 
                        Quaker
                     involvement in the war is supported only to a limited extent by the current 
                  
                     36 General Order Number 64, General Orders, State of
                            Indiana Adjutant General's Office, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , August 1, 1862 (Unidentified photocopy, Lilly Library, Earlham College).
                  
                     37 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General,
                            Statistics and Documents, I, 187–88. The author examined registration records
                            housed in the Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, and determined the
                            number of conscientious objectors in the 
                                Quaker
                             counties designated for this survey to be 2,486, excluding 
                                Jennings County
                             which the above number does include.
                  
                     38
                     Ibid. Other counties: Union: 12
                            "conscientious," 14 soldiers; 
                                Vermillion
                            : no "conscientious," 3 soldiers; Vigo: no
                            "conscientious," 2 soldiers; 
                                Washington
                            : 35 "conscientious," 39 soldiers.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid. 
                                Huntington County
                             enrollment records list 47 conscientious objectors, and only 5 Quakers became
                            soldiers.
                  
                     40 Thomas C. Drake, Quakers and Slavery in America (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1950), 197.
               
                     findings. Examination of 
                        Quaker
                     military service revealed that, out of a total of 181 regiments raised within the state
                    of Indiana, Friends enrolled and served in at least 135 units.41 Further
                    investigation yields that several companies were composed of large groups of Friends. Company F of
                    the Sixth Regiment, three months' service, for example, was dubbed the "
                        Quaker
                     Company."42 Raised in 
                        Knightstown
                    . and surrounding areas in southwestern 
                        Henry County
                     with heavy concentrations of Quakers, this company, one of the first to be organized,
                    totaled seventy-four men. Mustered into service at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on April 25, 1861, with William C. Moreau as captain, the entire regiment, under the
                    command of Colonel Thomas T. Crittenden of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, fought in the first battle of the war at Philippi, 
                        Virginia
                    , on June 3. Returning to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in August, all men of Company F were mustered out at the expiration of their terms of
                        service.43
            
            Several companies in three-year regiments were also represented by large numbers of Friends.
                    Companies A and D of the Thirty-sixth Regiment, raised in southern 
                        Henry County
                     from the 
                        Quaker
                     communities of 
                        Lewisville
                     and 
                        Greensboro
                    , respectively, are two such units. The former, under the command of a 
                        Quaker
                     captain, William Davis Wiles, was reported to have had fifty Quakers in its service,
                    while Captain Isaac Kinley of Company D, recruited forty fellow Quakers for active duty.44 Considerable action was seen by the Thirty-sixth Regiment including the
                    battle of 
                        Shiloh
                    , siege of Corinth, and the battles of Stones River, 
                  Chickamauga, Chattanooga
               , and 
                        Atlanta
                    .45 Finally, the Howard Tribune (
                        Kokomo
                    ) boasted that a regimental company was raised among the Quakers in southwestern 
                        Howard County
                    .46 Mustered in as Company G of the Eighty-ninth Regiment, this
                    unit, largely utilized for guard and picket duty, reportedly traveled in excess of ten thousand
                    miles. These men also participated in a few skirmishes and were periodically stationed at Fort
                    Pickering, 
                  
                     41 Civil War regiments numbered from the Sixth through the One Hundred
                            Fifty-sixth, plus twenty-six batteries of Light Artillery.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 23, 1861.
                  
                     43 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General,
                            Statistics and Documents, I,6, II,4,6, IV,8–9.
                  
                     44
                            
                                Rushville
                            
                            Weekly Republican, November 13, 1861; Heiss, Abstracts,
                            IV, 25, 416. Company A had a total of 116 men; Company D, 107. Terrell, Report
                                of the Adjutant General, Statistics and Documents, I,14.
                  
                     45 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General,
                            II,361–62.
                  
                     46
                            Howard Tribune (
                                Kokomo
                            ), August 14, 1862.
               
                    
                    
                  Memphis, Nashville, Vicksburg
               , and 
                        New Orleans
                     throughout the war.47
            
            Research also uncovered sizeable aggregates of Friends in other Indiana regiments. Company E of the
                    Twelfth Regiment, three years' service, included twenty-five Quakers primarily from 
                        Morgan County
                    . 
                        Hamilton County
                     sent twenty-two Quakers to war in Company G, One Hundred and Forty-seventh Regiment,
                    one year service, and twenty-one Friends in Company A, One Hundred and First Regiment, three
                    years' service. 
                        Orange County
                     Quakers were well represented in Company D, Sixty-sixth Regiment, as eighteen Friends
                    mustered in for three years. Eighteen Quakers also enrolled in Company C of the Eighty-ninth
                    Regiment from 
                        Grant County
                    .
            Further analysis of 
                        Quaker
                     military service shows that anywhere from five to sixteen Friends were represented in
                    each of 54 companies in 38 regiments and 3 batteries of light artillery. The composition of 335
                    companies in 122 regiments and 9 batteries of light artillery, however, included four or fewer
                        Quakers.48 Thus, while the majority of military companies contained only a
                    few Friends, evidence exists that in many companies Quakers enrolled for military duty in large
                    clusters.
            Why did these 
                        Quaker
                     men violate their antiwar teachings and testimony and willingly bear arms? How could
                    one reconcile the 
                        Quaker
                     belief in the unlawfulness of war with killing another human being? Among the sources
                    utilized to unravel this question of motivation are letters written by Friends in uniform. Although 
                        Quaker
                     writings on the subject of military service are sparse, these letters offer at least a
                    partial explanation for what appears to have been contradictory, inconsistent, and anomalous
                    behavior. Several themes emerge from these introspective personal accounts in regard to what factors
                    prompted many Friends to defend the Union.
            
               
                  47 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, Statistics
                        and Documents, III,98–101. In the above examples of mass enlistment, only those
                        Quakers who could be documented by the 
                            Quaker
                         genealogy were included in the total number of 1,198 
                            Quaker
                         soldiers, numbering 48 out of the total of 393 reported by the newspapers. Since
                        the genealogy is far from complete, it is very likely that the remaining 345 men were Quakers,
                        but the author chose not to include nonrecorded Friends. The author also found 276 soldiers
                        buried in 
                            Quaker
                         cemeteries but could not document them with the 
                            Quaker
                         genealogy. Had the above soldiers plus the 276 buried in 
                            Quaker
                         cemeteries been enumerated, the total number of 
                            Quaker
                         soldiers would soar to 1,819; the percentages would then increase from the limits
                        of 21–27 percent to 36–45 percent.
               
                  48 The above information was based upon the war records, determined from
                        Terrell's Report of the Adjutant General and the official record kept
                        in the Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, of 1,099 out of 1,198
                    Quakers.
            
            
            Some Friends joined the army for patriotic reasons. Quakers repeatedly asserted that they loved their
                    country and were willing to obey the laws of the 
                        United States
                     government under which they had been guaranteed religious freedom. Many Quakers
                    ardently believed that, by enlisting in military service, they were not only loyally following their
                    country but serving God as well. These Christian soldiers, convinced that the federal government was
                    justified in taking offensive measures against the Confederacy, expressed confidence that God would
                    exonerate 
                        Lincoln
                    's administration for its endeavor to restore the Union. Thus, while the elders
                    of the Society of Friends argued that all wars were unlawful in the eyes of the Lord, some of the 
                        Quaker
                     soldiers contended that there was a "right" war and just cause for
                    fighting that ultimately would receive divine sanction.
            Solomon Meredith, a general with a 
                        Quaker
                     background, who came from 
                        Centerville
                    , Indiana, was an exemplary patriotic warrior. He, as with some Friends who joined the
                    military, invoked the deity not only to justify or perhaps rationalize his own and the
                    government's militaristic actions, but to give guidance to those in command of the 
                        United States
                    . He prayed to God to direct the leaders of the Union to act from "pure
                    motives," unite the country, and extinguish the "unholy rebellion." To
                    him there was no course of action except to stand by President 
                        Lincoln
                    —anything less would most certainly lead to failure. He insisted that he had
                    acted from pure and patriotic motives since the inception of the war and had not had "one
                    selfish thought."49
            
            Another Friend, Daniel Wooton, echoed a similar patriotic view for joining the military in several
                    letters in which he carefully explained how a 
                        Quaker
                     could take up arms in the rebellion. He insisted that the cheapest way for the nation
                    to obtain "justice" in the war was to hang every seceder and stated that
                    "God will also justify us in doing so."50 Private Wooton
                    conceded that the Bible says "thou shalt not kill," but at the same time he
                    believed that God gave to the 
                        United States
                     the power to quell the rebellion in the quickest way possible.51 He
                    was convinced, too, that by choosing the martial life "I would be serving my
                        God."52
            
            Some 
                        Quaker
                     soldiers expressed a more nationalistic view of patriotism devoid of any spiritual
                    direction. They saw the seceders as traitors and aggressors and said that the rebellion had to be
                        
                  
                     49 Solomon Meredith to Anna Meredith, May 23, 1863, Solomon Meredith
                            Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library).
                  
                     50 Daniel Wooton to Miriam W. Green, May 1, 1861, Miriam Green Papers.
                  
                     51
                     Ibid., July 11, 1861.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., August 31, 1863.
               
                     crushed. A young private wrote that, although it was hard to
                    leave his sister and mother, "they [the Confederates] are the aggressors and must bear the
                        consequences."53 A 
                        Quaker
                     from Economy repeated similar feelings of loyalty when he wrote that he was willing to
                    serve out his time "rather than acknowledge the independence of the South."54 In August of the same year, after participating in the conquest of 
                        Vicksburg
                    , he repeated his stance: "am willing to go anywhere that will help to end the
                        war."55 This man's brother, a soldier in another regiment,
                    likewise wrote upon the reception of orders to march to 
                        Vicksburg
                    : "You need not be uneasy about me, for I am going willingly."56
            
            Eight 
                        Quaker
                     soldiers from 
                        Morgan County
                     also expressed the patriotic motive in their apologies to the monthly meeting. Although
                    they asserted that, as a general principle, war was contrary to Christ's teachings,
                    "in this particular instance ... by the sternest necessity, we feel that we were following
                    the path of duty to our government."57 Another 
                        Quaker
                     soldier tersely stated that he and his brother volunteered to "goo [sic] Fight for our Country."58
            
            In sum, love of country impelled some Friends to take an active role in the Civil War. Furthermore,
                    this devotion to the 
                        United States
                     apparently was of two types. One was a kind of Christian patriotism, a strong belief
                    that God was on the side of the Union and would confirm the actions of the federal government in
                    quelling the insurrection. The other rationale could be called national patriotism, also a strong
                    feeling of loyalty to the Union but devoid of holy approbation.
            At least one 
                        Quaker
                     admitted in writing, however, that it was not true patriotism that motivated him to
                    enroll in the army. This young man, 
                        Franklin
                     Elliott of 
                        Wayne County
                    , wrote a lengthy and revealing letter of condemnation for his actions in volunteering
                    for military duty. In part he wrote: "I confess that it was not true Patriotic motives that
                    led me to take up arms in the War ... I did it manly [sic] to gratify a stubborn
                    and rebellious spirit within me."59
            
            
               
                  53 John E. Morgan to his sister, May 25, 1863, Susan Unthank Collection.
               
                  54 Swain Marshall to his parents, January 8, 1863, Marshall Correspondence
                        (Indiana Historical Society Library).
               
                  55
                  Ibid., August 19, 1863.
               
                  56 Alonzo Marshall to Elvira Marshall, December 19, 1862, Marshall
                        Correspondence.
               
                  57 Minutes of White Lick Monthly Meeting of Men Friends held at White
                        Lick, 
                            Morgan County
                        , Indiana, January 27, 1866 (Indiana Historical Society Library).
               
                  58 Manoah Ratliff to Sarah Ratliff, August 15, 1862, Civil War Collections
                        (Indiana Historical Society Library).
               
                  59 Minutes of 
                            Milford
                         Monthly Meeting of Men Friends held at 
                     Milford, Wayne County
                  , Indiana,
                        June 21, 1865 (Indiana Historical Society Library).
            
            
            Another 
                        Quaker
                     was disappointed and even ashamed that he was unable to join the army and fight for the
                    Union. Anna Starr of 
                        Richmond
                     wrote to her husband William that she and brother 
                        Clinton
                     had discussed the issue of his joining the service. Only his sick and totally helpless
                    wife prevented him from enlisting. 
                        Clinton
                     "extremely" regretted his absence from military service and said that
                    he would "always feel ashamed to have to own that he
                    was not in this war."60
            
            Some Friends also volunteered, no doubt, because they were very young and could not comprehend the
                    gravity and consequences of their decisions. While statistics indicate that the ages of Friends in
                    uniform ranged from twelve to fifty-nine, the largest age group of Friends (and non-Friends) who
                    served in the Civil War from Indiana were the eighteen-year-olds. But at least one hundred 
                        Quaker
                     boys, seventeen years of age or younger, enrolled for military duty.61 As reports filtered back from army camps about the fun of military life, the youthful and
                    impressionable boys at home, although legally bound by the constraints of age as well as morally
                    restricted by the 
                        Quaker
                     discipline, found it difficult to refrain from enlisting. As a further stimulus to
                    recruitment, public rallies, parades, and picnics—replete with brass bands and speeches
                    filled with patriotic jargon—were held in cities and towns across Indiana in and near 
                        Quaker
                     communities. The festival-like atmosphere typical of these grand occasions may have
                    swayed even the most devout Friend to join the struggle to save the Union. Newspaper advertisements
                    of such gatherings were often printed in bold-faced type to catch the eyes of virtually every
                    reader. Some of these youthful Friends may also have been influenced to bear arms by a brother or
                    brothers already in the service. Examination of 
                        Quaker
                     birth and death records shows that seventy families saw two sons go to war, twenty
                    families were represented by three sons, and four brothers joined the army in each of eight
                    families. Six father-son combinations also enlisted in Hoosier regiments.62
            
            One 
                        Quaker
                     woman wrote that "Brother gone—As he enrolled amongst the thousands
                    who have gone—Is he but a lad of 17—-so 
                  
                     60 Anna Starr to William Starr, May 31, 1863, William Starr Collection
                            (Indiana Historical Society Library). 
                                Clinton
                             later found a way to serve his country as a tax collector for the federal
                            government.
                  
                     61 The above statistics were based upon the known ages of 870 out of
                            1,198 Quakers in uniform on the date of muster. Eighteen-year-olds also composed the largest
                            group for the state of Indiana as a whole. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant
                                General, Statistics and Documents, I, 110.
                  
                     62 This information was derived from Heiss's birth and death
                            records. Names of the parents of soldiers were checked to determine the familial
                            relationship.
               
                    
                    
                  HICKSITE FRIENDS MEETING HOUSE, RICHMOND, INDIANA, DECEMBER, 1859, SKETCHED BY LEFEVRE CRANSTONE
                  
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     young and thoughtless—oh how truely
                        lamentable!"63 The father of a young 
                        Quaker
                     enrolled at Earlham College penned a letter to the school's superintendent,
                    Walter Carpenter, pleading with him to influence his son, Lavinus, not to enlist in the army.
                    Anxious that Lavinus would be induced to take part in the "Bloody strife," he
                    wrote: "I wish thou would use thy Influence ... to induce him either to stay with you in
                    school ... or come home and stay with us."64 No evidence was found to
                    determine whether Carpenter failed to communicate with Lavinus or if the young man simply did not
                    heed the advice; he enlisted anyway. Lavinus King died only four days after mustering into the
                        army.65
            
            Economic conditions in the 
                        United States
                     certainly prompted some Quakers to volunteer for active duty. Unemployment coupled with
                    the use of bounties in recruitment were powerful incentives to financially distraught Friends in
                    Indiana. Although the pay was low (thirteen dollars per month for infantry privates throughout most
                    of the war), the first few months of the hostilities were beset by depression. Intermittent
                    joblessness faced many men until 1863; furthermore, farm and factory wages remained low. Army life
                    offered the assurance of an income, although small and dependent upon the continuation of the
                        war.66 Reflecting this concern for a steady income, one 
                        Quaker
                     wrote before his enlistment: "I don't think I shall go yet a while at
                    least ... as long as I have work to do I shall not go but if I run out of work and they want more
                    men I think Dan shall go."67
            
            A few Quakers entered the armed forces to fill sorely needed noncombat positions. Eli Patterson, for
                    example, a 
                        Quaker
                     from 
                        Spiceland
                    , volunteered for service on the expressed condition that he not be required to bear
                    arms but instead be assigned to hospital duty. When confronted by the monthly meeting after the war,
                    Patterson asserted that his request was strictly adhered to by military authorities.68 Examination of the war records of Quakers reveals that, although most Indiana Friends
                    in uniform entered the service as combat soldiers, approximately twenty of them dutifully worked in
                    the following essential nonfighting roles: surgeon, assistant surgeon, hospital steward, nurse,
                    orderly, ambulance 
                  
                     63 Sarah Spray Diary, August 23, 1862 (Indiana Historical Society
                            Library).
                  
                     64 Dean King to Walter Carpenter, July 8, 1862, Letters Written by and
                            about Earlham College Students, 1861–1865 (Archives, Lilly Library, Earlham
                            College).
                  
                     65 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, V, 445.
                  
                     66 Bell Irvin Wiley, The Life of Silly Yank: The Common
                                Soldier of the Union (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1951), 37–38.
                  
                     67 Daniel Wooton to Miriam W. Green, July 11, 1861, Miriam Green
                            Papers.
                  
                     68 Minutes of 
                                Spiceland
                             Monthly Meeting of Men Friends held at 
                        Spiceland, Henry County
                     ,
                            Indiana, May 5, 1866 (Indiana Historical Society Library).
               
                     driver, baggage-master on a hospital train, medical cadet,
                    sanitary agent, cook, chaplain, and medical examiner. A few Friends also served their companies and
                    regiments in the capacities of bugler, wagoner, scout, guard, carpenter, blacksmith, teamster,
                    musician, artificer, quartermaster, and paymaster.69
            
            Several Quakers also enrolled for military duty for defensive purposes when Confederate General John
                    Hunt Morgan invaded the state of Indiana in the summer of 1863. Morgan's raid into southern
                    Indiana, late in the evening of July 8, created much excitement, fear, and conflicting and
                    exaggerated rumors—prompting Governor Morton to issue a call for citizens to organize for
                    defense. In less than forty-eight hours 65,000 men volunteered to repulse Morgan's daring
                    raid. These "Minute Men" were organized into thirteen regiments and numerically
                    designated from the One Hundred and Second to the One Hundred and Fourteenth inclusive.70 Companies in which Quakers volunteered, frequently titled by colorful names
                    such as Buck Tails and Liberty Tigers, were found in nine of these regiments. Although only the
                    southern counties were imminently threatened, Quakers from central Indiana also responded to
                    Morton's call. Quakers from the counties of 
                  Hamilton, Wayne
               , Hendricks, 
                        Randolph
                    , Henry, 
                  Hancock, Madison
               , and Marion joined Friends from Orange and 
                        Washington
                     counties in southern Indiana in repelling the rebel encroachment. When Morgan finally
                    crossed the Indiana border into Ohio five days later, the crisis subsided and the Minute Men were
                    mustered out of service.71
            
            Only a few Quakers entered military service as draftees and substitutes—and for good
                    reason. Like most of the Union soldiers who answered the call to arms and enrolled in the armed
                    forces through voluntary enlistment, Quakers also sought to avoid the stigma of forced service and
                    to receive the bounty money given only to volunteers.72 Clearly, Quakers viewed
                    the likelihood of 
                  
                     69 The above information was found primarily in Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, passim.
                  
                     70 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General,
                            1,166–78, III,189. Morgan's raid, if successful, was to relieve the
                            pressure on the flank and rear of the Confederate army in the West under generals Bragg and
                            Buckner, which was in a perilous position in 1863. Morgan ignored direct orders to operate
                            only in Kentucky and crossed the Ohio River into Indiana. See also
                            Lorine Letcher 
                                Butler
                            , John Morgan and His Men (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1960); Cecil Fletcher Holland, Morgan and His Raiders: A
                                Biography of the Confederate General (
                                New York
                            , 1942); and Basil Duke Wilson, History of Morgan's
                                Cavalry (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1867).
                  
                     71 Morgan was finally hemmed in near Salinville, 
                                Ohio
                            , and surrendered July 26, 1863. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant
                                General, I, 192–97. See appendix for an explanation of how it was
                            determined which regiments were composed of Quakers.
                  
                     72 Wiley, Life of Billy Yank, 38.
               
                     being drafted as an incentive to enlist. One Friend, for
                    example, wrote that he and his brother "will goe [sic] before we ar [sic] drafted."73 Of the 1,198 Friends in uniform
                    from Indiana only twenty-one, or 1.8 percent of them, waited to be conscripted into service, well
                    below the 8.6 percent calculated for the entire state of Indiana.74 Furthermore,
                    any person drafted could be excused from military service either by furnishing a substitute or,
                    until the draft law of 1864, paying a $300 commutation fee. Research shows that six
                    Quakers from Indiana entered the service as substitutes.75
            
            Quakers who remained on the homefront cited antislavery sentiments as a motivator for military
                    service. As noted earlier, a few letters and some of the histories of monthly meetings indicated
                    that some Friends saw nothing wrong with utilizing war to help free the slaves; by taking up arms
                    they compromised one 
                        Quaker
                     principle to fight for another. William Stubbs Elliott, a Friend from 
                        Hamilton County
                    , wrote early in the war that Quakers were entering the army inspired with abolitionist
                    enthusiasm. Convinced that the war would terminate the institution of slavery, Elliott, who later
                    volunteered for military service, declared that "it is my duty to abolish this curse from
                    the nation."76 Similarly, James O. Bond, author of an unpublished
                    biography of a 
                        Quaker
                     Civil War veteran, implied that fear of the spread of slavery to the whole nation
                    prompted Quakers to bear arms.77 John W. Griffin, a Friend from 
                        Spiceland
                    , also believed that there was a "righteous" war to end slavery. To
                    him the 
                        Quaker
                     theory of nonresistance was radical and, if implemented, would lead to the destruction
                    of the federal government. Thus, Griffin asserted that neither the New Testament nor the early
                    writings of the church fathers required rigid adherence to the doctrine of pacifism.78 Finally, historian Thomas Drake declared that Friends saw the Civil War as Gods way of
                    punishing a nation of slaveholders. He also noted that the abolitionist Levi Coffin believed that
                    the war would continue until slavery was abolished.79
            
            
               
                  73 Thomas R. Ratliff to Sarah Ratliff, August 5, 1862, Civil War
                        Collections.
               
                  74 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General, I,53. The
                        latter percentage was calculated by dividing 17,903 draftees by 208,367.
               
                  75 This information was discovered by researching the military records of 
                            Quaker
                         volunteers.
               
                  76 Letter written by William Stubbs Elliott, quoted in James O. Bond,
                        "He Carried Three Packs," 8.
               
                  77 Bond, "He Carried Three Packs," 6. Bond is a grandson
                        of Elisha Mills.
               
                  78 Richard P. Ratcliff, The Quakers of 
                        Spiceland, Henry
                            County
                     , Indiana: A History of 
                                Spiceland
                             Friends Meeting, 1828–1968 (
                            New Castle
                        , Ind., 19681, 62.
               
                  79 Drake, Quakers and Slavery, 197.
            
            
            Interestingly enough, the idea that freeing the slaves prompted Quakers to enroll in the armed forces
                    was conspicuously absent from the letters written by the soldiers themselves. Some 
                        Quaker
                     correspondence, nevertheless, indicated that these combatants were curious about blacks
                    and at least one soldier was convinced that slavery had brought on the war. Early in the conflict
                    one 
                        Quaker
                    , in response to his parents' inquisitiveness about the
                    "darkies," wrote home that he had not yet seen any blacks; they had all been
                    "run farther south."80 Several weeks later he wrote that the
                    slave quarters on a plantation he passed "looked like a good sized town."81 This same soldier also saw the urgency of the bondsmen's liberation
                    "so as to never get into another such fix as we are in now."82
            
            Some 
                        Quaker
                     soldiers, while endorsing the need for the black man's emancipation, opposed
                    the movement of blacks to the North. One 
                        Quaker
                    , Swain Marshall, wrote that most of the men in his company favored abolition with the
                    condition that the blacks "stay where they are."83 Another
                    Friend in uniform not only echoed approval for the slaves' freedom but wanted to
                    "get the country clear of them; for my part I think we are getting a little more than our
                    share of them here [Camp Wickliffe, 
                        Kentucky
                    ]."84 Swain Marshall's brother, Alonzo, only
                    mentioned slaves on one occasion, however, laconically writing that "there are a number of
                    slaves around here."85
            
            Although few 
                        Quaker
                     combatants reenlisted, most who neither died nor were discharged early because of
                    physical disability, completed their terms of service.86 Close examination of
                    the 
                        Quaker
                     segment disclosed only thirteen deserters and two soldiers absent without leave, a mere
                    1.3 percent of the whole number of documented cases of 
                        Quaker
                     military service. This figure compares very favorably with the 4.3 percent of the total
                    Hoosier fighting force who abandoned their units.87 In addition, while most of
                    the 
                  
                     80 Swain Marshall to his parents, March 6, 1862, Marshall
                            Correspondence.
                  
                     81
                     Ibid., April 23, 1862.
                  
                     82
                            Ibid., March 6, 1862.
                  
                     83
                            Ibid.
                  
                     84 R. Gordon to [no name], January 15, 1862, Susan Unthank Collection.
                  
                     85 Alonzo Marshall to his parents, August 22, 1862, Marshall
                            Correspondence.
                  
                     86 Research shows that 58 Friends, approximately 5 percent of the
                            total 
                                Quaker
                             enrollment, registered twice for military duty. In addition 5 Quakers enlisted
                            three times for service in Indiana regiments. The percentage of Indiana troops that
                            reenlisted computes to be 5.6, determined by dividing 208,367, the total number of troops
                            furnished by Indiana, by 11,718, the total number of Hoosier men who reenlisted.
                  
                     87 Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General,
                            Statistics and Documents, I, 114. The latter percentage was computed by dividing 8,927
                            deserters by 208,367.
               
                    
                    
                  QUAKER SOLDIER, SWAIN
                                MARSHALL, OF THE EIGHTH INDIANA
                                REGIMENT
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                    
                    
                        Quaker
                     fighting men remained either recruits or privates, some of them earned and accepted
                    appointments to higher rank. The categorical breakdown of Friends' military status is as
                    follows: 118 corporals, 80 sergeants, 42 lieutenants, 15 captains, 4 majors, 2 colonels, 2
                    adjutants, 2 generals, and 2 provost marshals.88
            
            The collective military record of the Society of Friends in the Civil War undoubtedly is linked to
                    the question of motivation. Evidence suggests that the reasons for the initial enrollment are indeed
                    similar to the incentives for reenlistment, acceptance of promotion to higher rank, and completion
                    of terms of service. As one 
                        Quaker
                     soldier wrote when faced with the dilemma of reenlistment: "I could not think
                    of leaving the old 8th [Regiment].... Should I have to serve three years more, I will do it
                    faithfully and willingly, trying to do my duty to my country."89
                    Another 
                        Quaker
                     soldier struggled with the same predicament. Ultimately, he decided that, since he had
                    withstood the hardships thus far and borne the responsibility for the safety of his friends back
                    home, he could harbor no thought of leaving his regiment. This man chauvinistically wrote that he
                    was "too proud of the victories by the army of the 
                        Cumberland
                     to even give one thought to leaving hir [sic] at this late day
                        [.]"90
            
            In all probability, however, a thorough analysis of the question of motivation can neither be fully
                    determined nor clearly understood. Indeed, many of the soldiers themselves may not have comprehended
                    the complex issues behind the commencement of hostilities well enough to know why they were
                    fighting. The abolition of slavery, preservation of the Union, and, of course, patriotism were
                    exceedingly emotional, if not simplistic, concepts that overshadowed the points of dispute between
                    the North and the South. Too, the 
                        Quaker
                     concept of the Inner Light, the inward spirit that granted each individual the freedom
                    to follow his own conscience and that seemingly could have vindicated Friends' military
                    actions, fails to provide the historian with a satisfactory answer to the perplexing inquiry.
            A cursory comparison of the motives for enlistment of a large number of non-
                        Quaker
                     soldiers and the Indiana Friends in uniform shows striking similarity. In his widely
                    read book, The Life of Billy Yank: The Common Soldier of the Union, Bell Irvin
                    Wiley studied thousands of letters and diaries written by Union soldiers. 
                  
                     88 This information was discerned by researching the military records
                            of 
                                Quaker
                             volunteers.
                  
                     89 Swain Marshall to his father, February 18, 1864, Marshall
                            Correspondence.
                  
                     89 Daniel Wooton to Miriam W. Green, August 31, 1863, Miriam Green
                            Papers.
               
                     He found several reasons why many young men of the North joined
                    the armed forces.
            First of all, significant numbers of men, caught up in the "prevailing excitement,"
                    saw the "lure of far places" as a way to seek change in their lives. The war and
                    military service, then, could broaden the horizons of those who had never had the opportunity to
                    travel. Once the fighting began, Friends and associates already in the service coaxed those at home
                    to join the hostilities. In 1863 the federal government adopted the first conscription plan,
                    providing an additional impetus to enlistment. In order to avoid the "stigma of forced
                    service" and to obtain the bounties awarded to volunteers, thousands of men rushed to
                    enroll for military duty. In particular, the expectation of economic rewards served as an incentive
                    for financially distressed men. Furthermore, some veterans indicated that love of country and
                    "hatred of those who seemed bent on destroying its institutions" impelled them to
                    join the fight for the 
                        United States
                    . Wiley also noted that a desire to emancipate the slaves spurred some men to enlist in
                    the army, although very few soldiers actually expressed this motive. Finally, preservation both of
                    the Union and the country's system of government prompted many men to participate in the
                        war.91
            
            Clearly, the writings of the 
                        Quaker
                     soldiers evince much of the feeling and flavor discovered by Wiley in other
                    manuscripts. It appears that the motives of Quakers differed insignificantly from those of the
                    soldiers of Wiley's massive study. Once the war was set in motion at Fort Sumter, the
                    incentives for enlistment transcended the religious scruples of those Friends who were determined to
                    fight. 
                        Quaker
                     combatants could indeed be included among Wiley's "common
                    soldiers."
            One final consideration needs to be addressed. In the broader context of 
                        Quaker
                     history in the Civil War era, the fact that 1,198 Friends bore arms and that 596
                    remained undisciplined may be indicative of a loosening of the strict code of behavior to which
                    Quakers had been bound. Research shows that church discipline had begun to weaken during the years
                    of the Civil War and that deviations from the code were not uncommon. Throughout the decade of the
                    1860s many Friends faced charges for a wide number of violations such as: marrying a non-Friend, not
                    attending meeting, using profane language, departing from plain speech and dress, and drinking. Some
                    of these Quakers lost their memberships 
                  
                     91 Wiley, Life of Billy Yank,
                        37–44.
               
                     within the Society by disownment.92 It is
                    conceivable that those Friends who joined the armed forces could no more live up to the strict 
                        Quaker
                     standards than those who committed other types of infractions. As a matter of fact, a
                    large number of Friends who were disowned for military service also had other offenses charged
                    against them simultaneously.93 In these instances adherence to 
                        Quaker
                     principles was weak in general.
            Historians of 
                        Quaker
                     meetings have offered a variety of explanations for Friends' military service
                    over the last half century. Indiana 
                        Quaker
                     historian Willard C. Heiss wrote that after the conclusion of the war in 1865,
                    "the application of the Discipline to the lives of Friends became increasingly
                    relaxed." Not only was disownment for violations of the peace testimony gradually
                    abandoned, but punishment for nonadherence to other 
                        Quaker
                     beliefs also abated. By the end of the nineteenth century, except for "serious
                    matters," few Friends lost membership within the Society by disownment.94 Historian Thomas Drake wrote that 
                        Quaker
                     soldiers were not disowned automatically for volunteering, for Friends could not bring
                    themselves to be too strict with their young men who compromised one 
                        Quaker
                     principle (antiwar testimony) to fight for another (abolition of slavery). Freedom and
                    the Union seemed to be worth fighting for.95
                    
                        Carthage
                     Friends in 
                        Rush County
                     held "considerable discussion" concerning the course of action and
                    the type of attitude they should take in regard to 
                        Quaker
                     military service. Based upon the long-recognized ideal among Friends that one should
                    obey one's conscience, they decided that if a man believed it was his duty to go to war,
                    then the meeting should respect his decision and allow him to retain his membership. Consequently,
                    those Friends who joined the armed forces were continued as members of the Society.96 Jericho Friends also refrained from disapprobation of soldiers. They worried about their
                    men and welcomed them back when they returned home safely.97 In all, fourteen of
                    the meetings that the author researched refused to disown ex-soldiers.98
            
            
               
                  92 This information was based upon reading the monthly meeting minutes for
                        the years 1861–1870.
               
                  93
                        Ibid.
               
                  94 Heiss, Abstracts, I, xix.
               
                  95 Drake, Quakers and Slavery, 197.
               
                  96 "Brief History of 
                            Carthage
                         Friends Meeting," 12.
               
                  97 Brumfield and Heiss, Jericho Friends'
                        Meeting, 54.
               
                  98 This information was based upon reading the monthly meeting minutes for
                        the years 1861–1870. Written apologies obviated the need for disciplinary action in
                        some of these meetings. Not all veterans who belonged to these meetings, however, produced
                        acknowledgments. Those who did not were not disowned.
            
            
            Historian Daniel Boorstin wrote that the greatest failure of the Society of Friends in America was
                    its rigidity of beliefs and unwillingness to compromise. Writing specifically about the period
                    before the American Revolution, Boorstin noted that "Quakerism had many qualities which
                    would have suited it to become the dominant American religion."99 But
                    Friends' increasingly uncompromising dogmas throughout the first half of the eighteenth
                    century laid the foundation for a wall that was built around the Society, by the mid-1750s. As
                    Quakers gradually withdrew from society, their chances for growth waned, too. The 
                        Quaker
                     story in America, then, according to Boorstin, was "one of the greatest lost
                    opportunities in all American history."100
            
            The reactions of 
                        Quaker
                     monthly meetings after the Civil War perhaps show that Friends tried to compromise to
                    avoid further loss of membership. Since Friends had been reluctant to proselytize before and during
                    the Civil War, membership lists were shrinking. Needing to stave off this decline, the Society
                    increasingly reduced the penalties for violations of the 
                        Quaker
                     discipline. Indeed, historian John William Buys's assessment that the
                    "Civil War proved a watershed ... [for] the Society of Friends" may be correct.101 Elbert Russell would have agreed with Buys. Russell asserted that the Civil
                    War "made a definite break in the history of American Quakerism." The war forced
                    the Society out of its "official isolation," which was brought on by adherence to
                    the peace testimony, and compelled many Quakers to reexamine the pacifist tradition.102
            
            Rufus Jones viewed the enlistment of 
                        Quaker
                     soldiers as part of the weakening of the peace testimony rather than as part of the
                    overall loosening of the code of behavior. Jones noted that at the time of the Civil War the rank
                    and file membership possessed little more than a "traditional adherence" to the
                    antiwar stand. Quakers gave little serious thought to war, and for most Friends it was an
                    "unexamined inheritance." Although the formal position of the Society was one of
                    opposition to all wars, in the "lives of individual members, however, ... [the
                    incompatibility of war with Christian ideals] had not become a settled, dominant, first-hand
                        conviction.103
            
            
               
                  99 Daniel Boorstin, The Americans, Vol. I: The Colonial Experience (
                            New York
                        , 1958), 41.
               
                  100
                  Ibid.
               
                  101 John William Buys, "Quakers in Indiana in the Nineteenth
                        Century (Ph.D. dissertation, University of 
                            Florida
                        , 19731, 300.
               
                  102 Russell, History of Quakerism, 408. Russell noted
                        that the Society's relief work during the war also forced Quakers out of isolation.
               
                  103 Jones, Later Periods, II, 728.
            
            
            Indisputably, the Society of Friends was faced with a serious moral dilemma when the Civil War began
                    in 1861. For a variety of reasons approximately twelve hundred 
                        Quaker
                     men did not remain passive in the highly charged environment of the conflict between
                    the North and the South. Even possible estrangement from both family and the religious community
                    failed to convince these men that they had made the wrong choice. And while the percentage of
                    Quakers in service was low in comparison to the percent of all Indiana men who enrolled for military
                    duty, this author's findings show that virtually all historians who have written about
                    Quakers in the Civil War have erred in their estimates.
            As Henry Steele Commager wrote, the war did not "come to an end, psychologically or
                    emotionally, with 
                        Appomattox
                    ."104 Once the hostilities ceased in 1865, the Society of
                    Friends was again confronted with an ethical quandary. The need to solve this dilemma compelled each
                    monthly meeting to decide what should be done in regard to 
                        Quaker
                     military service. Statistics show that opinion was anything but unanimous on the
                    treatment of ex-soldiers. Unquestionably, then, the impact of the Civil War was felt not only by
                    active 
                        Quaker
                     participants but also by those Friends who remained at home during the war and who,
                    upon cessation of hostilities, sat in judgment of their brethren. The larger ramification is that
                    violations of the peace testimony appear to reflect a general breakdown of 
                        Quaker
                     discipline and signal a gradual relaxation of the code's application over the
                    next five decades.
            Thus, far more Quakers from Indiana fought in the Civil War than has been generally known. In itself
                    this finding is profoundly important. This powerful evidence dispels the myth that has been
                    perpetuated by historians for over one hundred years that Quakers, at least in Indiana, refused to
                    fight in the Civil War. It is hoped that this investigation, while limited in scope, may provide the
                    needed incentive to probe more closely the activities of Friends in other states during the Civil
                    War. Only then can historians adequately assess 
                        Quaker
                     participation in the war and the war's impact on the entire Religious Society
                    of Friends.
            
                    APPENDIX
                
            
                    It is virtually impossible to determine an accurate count of the number of Quakers who lived in
                        Indiana on the eve of the Civil War. Emma Lou Thorn-brough, author of Indiana in
                            the Civil War Era, 1850–1880, estimated that about 
                     
                        104 Henry Steele Commager, ed., The Blue and the
                                Gray (2 vols., 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1950). I, xiv.
                  
                         15,000 Quakers resided in Indiana in 1850. Historian
                        Margaret E. Hirst, author of The Quakers in Peace and War, asserted that the
                        number of Friends could be as high as 20,000 by the time of the Civil War. Rufus Jones, 
                            Quaker
                         historian and author of The Later Periods of Quakerism, wrote
                        that the membership of Indiana Yearly Meeting, which at the time of the Civil War also included
                        Friends who resided in 
                            Ohio
                        , was in excess of 20,000. According to the Indiana Yearly Meeting Minutes of 1857,
                        1,800 Friends (male and female) from the ages of 15 through 19 resided in Indiana. The
                        percentage of this age group in the entire state of Indiana, according to the Federal Census of
                        1860, was 11.41, computed by dividing 1,350,428, the total population of Indiana, into 154,085,
                        the total number of persons in the 15–19 age bracket in Indiana. Dividing 1,800 by
                        1141 yields 15,776, the approximate number of Quakers in Indiana belonging to Indiana Yearly
                        Meeting circa 1860. For convenience sake this figure has been rounded to 16,000. Another Yearly
                        Meeting was established in Indiana in 1858—-Western Yearly Meeting. Therefore, the
                        estimate of 1857 includes those Quakers who, one year later, became attached to Western Yearly
                        Meeting. In addition to the previous numbers, a small group of Quakers called Hicksites lived in
                        Indiana for whom the author has no population figures. This group of Friends separated from the
                        main body (called Orthodox Friends) in the late 1820s and formed seven meetings in six Indiana
                        counties. The author will not distinguish between Orthodox Friends and Hicksite Friends in this
                        article. Although there were doctrinal differences between the two groups, the Hicksites
                        retained the peace testimony as part of their discipline. Unless otherwise noted, the term "
                            Quaker
                        " or "Friend refers to any one of the two groups. In terms of
                        population, then, the author estimates the Indiana 
                            Quaker
                         population, including Hicksites, to lie between 16,000 and 20,000.
                    The author relied on Willard Heiss, ed., Abstracts of the Records of the Society of
                            Friends in Indiana, to determine the names and locations of the surviving monthly
                        meeting records. The author consulted forty-five monthly meeting minutes in this category. They
                        are as follows: Sand Creek in 
                            Bartholomew County
                         (also known as Driftwood in 
                            Jackson County
                        ); Mississinewa and 
                            Back Creek
                         in 
                            Grant County
                        ; Poplar Ridge, 
                            Westfield
                        , and Greenwood in 
                            Hamilton County
                        ; Fair-field, 
                            Plainfield
                        , and Mill Creek in Hendricks County; 
                     Duck
                            Creek, Spiceland, Hopewell
                  , and 
                            Raysville
                         in 
                            Henry County
                        ; Honey Creek, 
                            New Salem
                        , and Pleasant Hill in 
                     Howard County;
                                Fall Creek
                   (Hicksite) in 
                            Madison County
                        ; 
                            Bridgeport
                         and 
                            Beech Grove
                         in 
                            Marion County
                        ; Pipe Creek in 
                            Miami County
                        ; West Union and White Lick in 
                            Morgan County
                        ; Lick Creek in 
                            Orange County
                        ; Rocky Run, Rush Creek, and 
                            Bloomfield
                         in 
                            Parke County
                        ; Cherry Grove, White River, and Poplar Run in 
                            Randolph County
                        ; Walnut Ridge in 
                     Rush County; Greenfield
                   in 
                            Tippecanoe County
                        ; 
                            Salem
                         in Union County; Wabash in 
                            Wabash County
                        ; Blue River and Blue River (Hicksite) in 
                            Washington County
                        ; and West Grove, 
                     Milford,
                                Milford
                   (Hicksite), Whitewater,
                        Whitewater (Hicksite), 
                     New Garden, Springfield, Dover
                  , and 
                            Chester
                         of 
                            Wayne County
                        . Most of the preceding records have been microfilmed by the Indiana Historical
                        Society and can be viewed at the Society library in 
                            Indianapolis
                        . All Indiana Yearly Meeting records are now available at Lilly Library, Earlham
                        College, 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana. Original records are also housed at Western Yearly Meeting House in 
                            Plainfield
                        , Indiana. A few of the records are held by the meetings themselves, and some of the
                        Hicksite minutes are housed in the Hicksite Meeting House in Waynesville, 
                            Ohio
                        . Thus, the potential researcher should consult the six-part work by Heiss to
                        determine exactly where specific records are located.
                    Because some of the 
                            Quaker
                         minutes have been lost, damaged, or not made available to the Indiana Historical
                        Society for microfilming, ten meeting records were researched via Heiss's Abstracts to cull information otherwise unobtainable. They are: Sugar Plain in 
                            Boone County
                        ; 
                            Oak Ridge
                         in 
                            Grant County
                        ; Hinkles  Creek and Richland in 
                            Hamilton County
                        ; Maple Grove (Hicksite) in 
                            Huntington County
                        ; Camden (Hicksite) in Jay County; 
                            Indianapolis
                         in 
                            Marion County
                        ; Sugar River in 
                            Montgomery County
                        ; 
                            Carthage
                         in 
                            Rush County
                        ; and Honey Creek (Hicksite) in 
                            Vigo County
                        . Many of these records for the Civil War years do not now exist. In many cases
                        Heiss used the abstracts compiled by William Wade Hinshaw (1930s) for his material.
                    According to Willard Heiss, then, the fifty-five sets of monthly meeting minutes enumerated above
                        are the ones known to exist for the years 1861–1870. Admittedly, some Quakers have
                        not been counted in this survey. Due to the incompleteness of the birth and death records, some
                        soldiers who escaped disciplinary action may not have been counted. In addition, the minutes of
                        Grove Monthly Meeting in 
                            Jennings County
                         have not been found. Thus, Quakers from this meeting who were disowned, who
                        produced offerings, or were not disciplined, have not been included in this survey. The author
                        did examine cemetery records of 
                            Jennings County
                         but found only one 
                            Quaker
                         soldier.
                    The names of the 
                            Quaker
                         soldiers were determined by several research methods. Those Friends who either
                        produced offerings or were disowned by their respective meetings for military service were
                        identified by a close reading of the monthly meeting minutes for the years 1861–1870.
                        In cases in which the monthly meeting minutes were not available, the author consulted
                        Heiss's six-part Abstracts. The names of those Quakers who either
                        died in the war or were not disciplined by the Society of Friends were determined by checking
                        lists of soldiers from the counties in which Quakers resided against the birth and death records
                        (also included in the Heiss work) of the monthly meetings. The soldiers' lists were
                        either obtained from county histories or from the eight-volume compilation of the war in Indiana
                        by W. H. H. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana.
                        Since the birth and death records of the monthly meetings are far from complete, the author also
                        examined cemetery records of the counties in which Quakers lived. The Archives Division, Indiana
                        Commission on Public Records, has a file called "Veterans Graves
                        Registration," an alphabetical card catalogue, by county, of Civil War veterans buried
                        within the state of Indiana. This index, compiled for approximately fifty of Indiana's
                        ninety-two counties, was also checked against the birth and death records compiled by Heiss. The
                        counties that were researched by this method include Grant, Morgan, Howard, 
                            Huntington
                        , Miami, Jay, 
                     Montgomery, Marion, Orange, Washington
                  , Vigo, 
                            Vermillion
                        , and Parke. The remaining cemetery records, encompassing a wide range of
                        completeness and also checked against soldiers' lists, were either found in county
                        libraries or the Genealogy Division of the Indiana State Library. County records researched by
                        this method include 
                     Bartholomew, Hancock
                  , Rush, Jennings, 
                            Jackson
                        , Porter, 
                     Randolph, Wayne
                  , Henry, 
                     Hamilton, Boone
                  , Hendricks, 
                            Wabash
                        , and 
                            Madison
                        . In addition, the county recorders' offices have cemetery records. The
                        Recorders of Boone and 
                            Randolph
                         counties also have burial record books which give the names and locations of graves
                        of Civil War veterans within their respective counties. Finally, a few names were discovered in
                        letters written by Quakers. This correspondence frequently included names of relatives and
                        friends who had joined the army.
                    The membership status of each 
                            Quaker
                         soldier was ascertained by using Heiss's Abstracts. Any 
                            Quaker
                         who was disowned prior to the war and who had not been readmitted to the Society
                        before the outbreak of hostilities was not included in the total of 1,198. In the course of the
                        author's research between 100 and 200 names were deleted for this reason. The only
                        exception to this was if the 
                            Quaker
                         was reinstated after the war or was buried in a 
                            Quaker
                         cemetery. Such cases, however, were few indeed. Similarly, names of soldiers
                        appearing in the birth and death records who joined the Society of Friends after the war have
                        not  been included in the total number. To insure additional
                        accuracy the names and service records of all soldiers were compared with the official record of
                        military service kept by the Archives Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, at the
                        Indiana State Library and Historical Building, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . If the age listed on the official record was not the same as the age determined
                        from the 
                            Quaker
                         birth and death records, that soldier's name was deleted. This way
                        soldiers with common names could be distinguished as Quakers or non-Quakers. One exception to
                        this was when the 
                            Quaker
                         soldier was under the legal military age of 18. Obviously some 
                            Quaker
                         soldiers lied about their age in order to enroll for military duty. Thus, their
                        official military record lists them as age 18 when in reality they were not yet of legal age. In
                        any case when there was doubt as to whether a soldier was a 
                            Quaker
                         or not, the name was dropped. Thus, the total number of 1,198 that the author has
                        documented is the minimum number of 
                            Quaker
                         soldiers in Indiana. Simple addition shows 1,200 Quakers in military service. Two
                        soldiers from 
                            Wayne County
                        , however, were counted twice in the preceding number. Both were disowned for
                        military service and later died in the war. Hence, the number should be 1,198.
                
         
         
         
            To Be a Jew in 
                        Middletown
                    :
            A 
                        Muncie
                     Oral History Project
            
                    Dwight W. Hoover
                    ∗
                
            
               
                  
                            Middletown
                        : A Study in Contemporary American Culture (1929), the famous study of 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, by Robert S. and Helen Merrell Lynd, says very little about the
                    town's small Jewish community. Indeed, the only specific indication that such a community
                    even existed comes as a kind of footnote to the prevailing Protestantism in 
                        Muncie
                    . The Lynds mention that the Jewish merchants whose stores lined Walnut Street, the
                    major thoroughfare, faced a dilemma because the biggest shopping day of the week was Saturday, the
                    Jewish Sabbath, and retail stores generally closed on Sunday. The Lynds then note that there was no
                    uniform Jewish solution to this dilemma; some owners opened on Saturday, others closed their stores
                    on Friday afternoon for the entire weekend.
            The failure to study the Jewish community is not surprising given: (1) the intent of the sponsors of
                    the Lynds' work, the Institute of Social and Religious Research; (2) the criteria used for
                    selecting a town to survey; and (3) the Lynds' assumptions about the nature of both
                    American religion and society. The Institute of Social and Religious Research planned to survey an
                    entire community's religious practices, with the long-term goal of uniting all Protestant
                    churches in the country.l In choosing 
                        Muncie
                    , Robert S. Lynd used criteria that specifically de-emphasized heterogeneity, revealing
                    his interest in analyzing only older 
                  
                     ∗ Dwight W. Hoover is professor of history at Ball State
                            University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Charles E. Harvey, "Robert S. Lynd, John D. Rockefeller,
                            Jr., and Middle-town," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX
                            (December, 19831, 330–54. See also the second volume (Fall-Winter,
                            1979–1980) of the Journal of the History of Sociology, which
                            was devoted to Robert S. Lynd.
               
                     stock American Protestants. One such criterion was that the
                    city to be studied have only a small proportion of "negro and foreignborn
                        population."2 Further, although Lynd was himself a graduate of
                    Union Theological Seminary, he viewed traditional religion as a relic of preindustrial society,
                    doomed to die as society modernized. He did not regard religion as significant in itself but
                    conceived of it as a refuge for workers from the pressures of an industrial system.3 Finally, to compound the problem, Lynds model of society was almost exclusively an
                    industrial one that slighted small retail businesses to concentrate upon large manufacturing
                    establishments, thus overlooking that segment of the town's economy by which the majority
                    of 
                        Muncie
                    's Jews made a living. All of these factors contributed to the minimal coverage
                    of Jews in 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                    .
            An opportunity to remedy this oversight came in 1979 when a local businessman, Martin D. Schwartz,
                    commissioned Ball State University professors Warren Vander Hill and Dwight W. Hoover to begin an
                    oral history of 
                        Muncie
                    's Jewish community. Schwartz was anxious to record the memories of the older
                    members of the commmunity since he feared these might soon be lost (a fear which was justified as
                    already three of the interviewees have died and several memories have faded). Nineteen persons,
                    ranging in age from sixty to ninety-three, were interviewed. The interviewers used as a guide a
                    questionnaire devised by the Indiana Jewish Historical Society, which was modified to include more
                    questions on social and physical mobility and family relationships. The intent was not merely to
                    record disparate memories of individuals and their families but to find a coherent pattern, if one
                    existed, in the total group experience. The next step was to compare this experience with that of
                    other groups in other cities and to compare the attitudes of Jewish citizens of 
                        Muncie
                     with those explored by the Lynds in their classic work. In order to accomplish all
                    these goals, it was necessary to reinterview some persons and to obtain data from printed sources,
                    such as city directories and county histories, to supplement the information originally obtained.4
            
            
               
                  2 Robert S. and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                     
                                Middletown
                            : A Study in Contemporary American Culture (
                            New York
                        , 1929), 8.
               
                  3 See Dwight W. Hoover, "From Simpson's Chapel to Grace
                        Baptist Church," in Theodore Caplow, Howard Bahr, Bruce Chadwick, et al., All Faithful People (
                            Minneapolis
                        , 1983).
               
                  4 Nineteen persons were interviewed. The tapes of the interviews and the
                        transcriptions are now in The Center for 
                            Middletown
                         Studies at Ball State University. The excerpts which appear in this paper are
                        verbatim copies from the transcriptions, except where additional material has been added to
                        convey the meaning better. This material is enclosed in brackets.
            
            
            The most striking quality of 
                        Muncie
                    's Jewish population was its restlessness, as individuals moved in and out of
                    town searching for greater economic opportunity. The attraction to 
                        Muncie
                     was usually the offer of a partnership in a scrap business or a job clerking in a
                    clothing store; the person making the offer was often a relative, either by blood or by marriage.
                    But the attraction was not strong enough to ensure permanent residence, as the migrant often moved
                    out again. Neither success nor failure assured that permanence. If successful as a partner or clerk,
                    the recently arrived migrant might open his own business in another, larger city. If unsuccessful,
                    he might seek a more promising future elsewhere. City directories and cemetery records provide
                    evidence of this mobility. Indicative of the restlessness of the Jewish population is the experience
                    of the Moses Cohen family. The Cohens moved in and out of 
                        Muncie
                     so frequently that none of them stayed long enough to be buried in the town until the
                    death of Moses' great-grandson.5 The restless movement from town to
                    town in the nineteenth century certainly paralleled that of the typical urban migrant who, according
                    to Stephan Thernstrom, "moved through three or more communities before he settled down
                    around middle age."6
            
            Although individuals came and went, businesses often remained. An entrepreneur would come to 
                        Muncie
                    , often from a larger city such as 
                        Cincinnati
                     with a significant Jewish population, and would establish a business. That person would
                    then employ other members of the family who would help expand the store. The original owner might
                    sell the store to one of these persons and move on. The name would change, reflecting the new owner,
                    but the business would not.
            This pattern of movement applied to Jewish migrants generally, regardless of national origin. While
                    most of the early migrants to 
                        Muncie
                     were from Western Europe, the first citizens had similar experiences and followed
                    similar behavior patterns to those of later arrivals who were from Eastern Europe or who had been
                    born in the 
                        United States
                    . All worked within a narrow range of occupations and apparently moved easily in the
                    town with little sense of discrimination, joining in the activities of the larger community.
            A few examples help illustrate the beginnings of the Jewish community. The first Jewish settlers in 
                        Muncie
                    , according to Alexander 
                  
                     5 Frank Tick interview, 
                        Beverly
                                    Hills, California
                     ,
                            March 1, 1978.
                  
                     6 Stephan Thernstrom, "Reflections on the New Urban
                            History," Daedalus, C (Spring, 1971), 366.
               
                     L. Shonfield, were Henry and Lipman Marks who had opened a dry
                    goods and clothing store by 1850, four years before the incorporation of the town.7 Natives of Alsace, the Marks had immigrated to the 
                        United States
                     in the 1840s. The Marks brought four relatives to 
                        Muncie
                     to work in the store; these six persons constituted almost 25 percent of the
                    foreign-born population of 
                        Muncie
                    , thus making these French-born residents the third most numerous immigrant group after
                    the Irish and the Germarms8 But the Marks did not remain in 
                        Muncie
                     long. They soon moved to 
                        Cincinnati
                     where prospects seemed brighter; however, the store remained.
            A somewhat later arrival in 
                        Muncie
                    , Frank Leon, duplicated the Marks' success in the clothing business in 
                        Muncie
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , the former town serving as his home base. Leon had a retail store in 
                        Muncie
                     but later expanded into clothing manufacturing in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , supplying his retail store and others with his own products. Leon was the most
                    spectacular example of Jewish integration into the life of the community in the nineteenth century.
                    Among the civic groups he was instrumental in founding were the Knights of Pythias, the 
                        Muncie
                     Choral Society, the Citizen's Enterprise Company (a forerunner of the
                    Commercial Club and the Chamber of Commerce, designed to promote industrial and commercial
                    development of the city), and, most remarkably, the Home Missionary Society (an organization formed
                    to offer charitable relief and Christian education).9
            
            By the 1870s, Jews from areas other than 
                        France
                     began to arrive. The first was Lee Dessaur, who was American-born and who came to 
                        Muncie
                     from 
                        Cincinnati
                     in order to marry the daughter of a retail clothier. Dessaur, however, did not follow
                    in his father-in-law's footsteps by taking over the store. Instead he became a wholesale
                    liquor dealer, the first Jewish entrepreneur not in the clothing business in 
                        Muncie
                    .10 In that same decade came the first Jew from Eastern Europe. He
                    was Polish-born Heiman Silverburg, who had lived in Natchez, 
                        Mississippi
                    , for twenty-two 
                  
                     7 Alexander L. Shonfield, Preface to the History of the
                                Jewish People and a Sketch of 
                                    Muncie
                                , Indiana (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Ind., 1977), 28–29. Shonfield based his statement on an
                            advertisement in the Muncietonian that year.
                  
                     8 Alexander E. Bracken, "
                                Muncie
                             as a Pioneer Community" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History,
                            Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, 1978), 17.
                  
                     9 General William Harrison Kemper, ed., A Twentieth
                                Century History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), I, 146–47, 152, 511; Frank D. Haimbaugh, ed., History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924), I, 306, 385, 462; Thomas B. Helm, History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881), 137, 184, 186–87, 196, 221–22, 300.
                  
                     10 Shonfield, Preface, 31.
               
                     years prior to moving with his family to 
                        Muncie
                     to open a merchant tailoring business.11 Both Dessaur and
                    Silverburg signalled the expansion of vocational opportunity and the growing heterogeneity of 
                        Muncie
                    's Jewish community.
            By the 1880s other Eastern European Jews had joined Silverburg as the mass immigration from Eastern
                    Europe began. The first to arrive was the Cohen family. The father, Moses Cohen, migrated from 
                        Poland
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1874. There he married Sarah Ringolsky (later changed to Ringold), the daughter of
                    Herschel Ringolsky, who had also migrated from 
                        Poland
                    .12 After living in 
                        Indianapolis
                     for a time, the Cohens moved to 
                        Muncie
                    . They were pioneers in the scrap business, becoming the first Jews in that trade. Their
                    business was quite successful; both it and the Cohen family grew. After twenty-six years in 
                        Muncie
                    , the family moved to 
                        Chicago
                     to exploit the success of the older sons in the scrap business there, leaving a
                    building they owned behind. Just after World War I a daughter, Pearl, moved back with her husband
                    Will Freund to open a clothing store in the Cohen Building.13 The Cohens
                    switched from the scrap business to the retail clothing trade.
            This progression was duplicated, only much more rapidly, by the Ringolds, the second Polish-born
                    Jewish family to arrive in 
                        Muncie
                     in the 1880s. The Ringolds followed the Cohens to the town. Herschel Ringold joined his
                    son-in-law Moses Cohen in the scrap business a year after Moses opened his yard, but he left part of
                    his family in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Herschel's son Samuel remained in the Circle City in order to finish his
                    schooling. Following his graduation from high school five years later, Sam came to 
                        Muncie
                     to enter the clothing business. His sister Rachel took even longer. She arrived in 
                        Muncie
                     a decade later, in 1889. She married a man named Isaac Rappaport who was also
                    Polish-born. Rappaport had clerked in his cousin's dry goods store in 
                        Texas
                    , but when he came to 
                        Muncie
                     he opened a wholesale liquor store.14
                    
                  
                     11 There are contradictions about both Silverburg's first
                            name and place of birth. In Emerson's 
                                    Muncie
                                 Directory, 1894–1895 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1895), his first name is spelled Hyman. Shonfield says he was born in
                            Prussia, but in Manufacturing and Mercantile Resources and Industries of the
                                Principal Places of Indiana, 
                                    Wayne
                                , Henry, 
                                    Delaware
                                , and 
                                    Randolph
                                 Counties (n.p., 1881) it is given as 
                                Poland
                            .
                  
                     12 Shonfield, Preface, 22–31; Emerson's 
                                    Muncie
                                 Directory, 1891–1892.
                  
                     13 Judith Morris, "A Focal Study of the Bernard Freund
                            Family" (Seminar Paper, Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, November, 1980); Bernard Freund interview, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, April 14, 1979; and Pearl Cohen Freund interview,
                                    
                        Beverly Hills, California
                     , June 3, 1978.
                  
                     14 Shonfield, Preface, 33–36; Haimbaugh,
                            ed., History of 
                                    Delaware County
                                
                     , II, 435–36.
               
                    
                    
                  RINGOLD CLOTHING STORE, 109 SOUTH WALNUT STREET, LATE 1910s
                  Two other Jewish names appear in this photograph. At the far left is V.E.
                            Silverburg's Drug Store, and in the front window of the Willard Building's
                            second floor is the law office of A. C. Silverburg.
                  From the Conatser Collection, Courtesy Center for 
                                Middletown
                             Studies, Bracken Library, Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana.
               
                     The Ringolds, like the Cohens, showed a willingness to venture
                    into different enterprises even in a community where their families were established in others.
            Such was the case with two other families of Eastern European origin, the Schwartzes and the
                    Feinbergs, who came to 
                        Muncie
                     in the last decade of the nineteenth century. The first Schwartz to arrive was one of
                    three brothers. A native of 
                        Lithuania
                    , Samuel Schwartz peddled shoestrings and shoelaces, then clerked in a shoe store before
                    opening the Economy Shoe House in 
                        Muncie
                    . His brother Morris arrived in town about the same time to work as a salesman in a
                    clothing store. While Samuel settled permanently in 
                        Muncie
                    , Morris did not. He left 
                        Muncie
                     and went to 
                        Alaska
                     where he promoted prize fights, among other things, and then returned to Matthews,
                    Indiana, to take advantage of the gas boom by manufacturing glass chimneys for kerosene lamps. While
                    there he employed the third Schwartz brother, Leo, to sell the glass chimneys. When the gas supply
                    dwindled, Morris returned to 
                        Muncie
                     to open the Moxy Clothing Store, which specialized in expensive men's clothes.
                    His brother Leo worked as a traveling salesman for paper companies until 1920, when he too came to 
                        Muncie
                     to open a wholesale paper supply company. Here he remained until his death, but Morris,
                    ever restless, left two years later for 
                        New York City
                    , where he again changed occupations and went into the drycleaning business.15
            
            Another Polish-born migrant in the 1890s reversed the common tendency to change from scrap dealer to
                    clothing store owner. Abraham Feinberg moved to 
                        Muncie
                     from 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, in 1898. After selling clothes for two years, he went into the scrap
                    business, which he used as a stepping stone to a manufacturing career. He eventually owned 
                        Muncie
                     Cap and Set Screw Company and was reputed to be the richest Jew in 
                        Muncie
                    .16
            
            The history of Jewish migration and occupational choice in 
                        Muncie
                    , while similar in some ways to the experience of other cities, is also different. On
                    the one hand, Jewish migration to 
                        Muncie
                     appears to resemble migration elsewhere in America as described by William Toll: 
                        In America ... the migrants provided the shelters and jobs for relatives, especially brothers
                            and nephews, and in the towns of the Midwest and West seem easily to have entered social and
                            political elites. As Robert E. Levinson has shown for 
                        
                           15
                           Emerson's 
                                            Muncie
                                         Directory, 1893–1894; ibid., 1897–1898;
                                        ibid., 1899–1900; Martin D. Schwartz interview, 
                                        Muncie
                                    , Indiana, April 4, 1979; and Anna Schwartz interview, 
                                        Muncie
                                    , Indiana, April 4, 1979.
                        
                           16 Shonfield, Preface, 36; Emerson's 
                                            Muncie
                                         Directory, 1897–1898; ibid., 1899–1900;
                                        ibid., 1905–1906; ibid., 1921–1922.
                     
                            
                            
                        ACROSS-THE-TRACKS MUNCIE, APRIL, 1931
                     
                            
                            
                        To the right of the tracks is the office of the Schwartz Paper Company,
                                    628 South Walnut Street. The photographer is looking north toward the more
                                    prosperous part of Walnut Street.
                        Courtesy Center for 
                                        Middletown
                                     Studies, Bracken Library, Ball State University, 
                                        Muncie
                                    , Indiana
                     
                             individual Jews in the California gold rush towns, and
                            as Steven Hertzberg has more carefully analyzed in his pathbreaking study of 
                                Atlanta
                             Jewry, the young peddlers were accustomed to continual migration through family
                            sponsorship. Nevertheless, their persistence rates in specific towns were high compared with
                            gentiles, in some cases even when compared with gentile merchants.17
                  
                     On the other hand, the occupational choices of 
                        Muncie
                    's Jews seem more diverse and less predictable than those in other, larger
                    communities. In other cities there appears to have been greater continuity between occupations in
                    Europe and America as well as continuity in clientele for those who were peddlers. Marc Lee Raphael,
                    for example, has found that Jews from Eastern Europe who migrated to 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               ,
                    because the factory system had undercut their work as artisans and eliminated their work as
                    peddlers, continued to perform the same type of work in 
                        Columbus
                     as they had in the Old World.18 Jews in Steelton, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , who had been peddlers in Russia and 
                        Poland
                    , moved from peddling to the retail trade. By 1940, they constituted over half the
                    shopkeepers in Steelton; however, the kind of customers in these Jewish-owned shops had not changed.
                    They consisted of the industrializing peasants from Eastern and Central Europe and southern 
                        Italy
                    .19 In Europe these people had been served in little agricultural
                    villages; in America they were served in industrial towns. Thus, Polish-born Jews sold work clothing
                    to Polish-born laborers in the Old World and the New. These trends are less evident in 
                        Muncie
                    , however.
            In order to demonstrate this point, it is useful to reconstruct the structure of Jewish-owned
                    businesses in 
                        Muncie
                     in the heyday of the 1920s and then to consider the variety of stores and the
                    background of the owners. These stores mainly lined Walnut Street, the major shopping street in the
                    town, with the lower numbered stores being in a more fashionable area and the higher ones in a
                    poorer, transitional one.
            
               
                  Sam Ringolds Clothing Store
                  109 South Walnut
               
               
                  The Why (Will Freund)
                  
                     
                                Seymour
                             and Walnut
               
               
                  Economy Shoe Store (Samuel Schwartz)
                  116 North Walnut
               
               
                  The Moxy (Morris Schwartz)
                  Walnut Street between Adams and 
                                Jackson
                            
                  
               
            
            
               
                  17 William Toll, "The ‘New Social History’
                        and Recent Jewish Historical Writing," American Jewish History, LXIX
                        (March, 1980), 334.
               
                  18 Marc Lee Raphael, Jews and Judaism in a Midwestern
                            Community: 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1840–1875
                                (
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  , 1979); William Toll, "The Chosen People in
                        the World of Choice," Reviews in American History, VIII (June, 1980),
                        173; see also Judith E. Endelman, The Jewish Community of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1849 to the Present (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1984).
               
                  19 Toll, "The ‘New Social History,’
                        " 330.
            
            
            
               
                  Schwartz Paper Company (Leo Schwartz)
                  628 South Walnut
               
               
                  Marx and Kallmeyer Clothing Store (Herman Marx and David Kallmeyer)
                  104–106 South Walnut
               
               
                  Charles IndorFs Pawn Shop
                  608–612 South Walnut
               
               
                  King's Clothing Shop (Charles Indorf)
                  125 South Walnut
               
               
                  Pazol's Jewelry Store (Harry D. Pazol)
                  206 South Walnut
               
               
                  Whitcomb Garment Company (Morris Shapiro)
                  Second floor of Walnut and Howard
               
               
                  Burgauer's Office Equipment (Jack D. Burgauer)
                  220 North Walnut
               
               
                  Sam Gold's Clothing Store
                  512 South Walnut
               
               
                  Greiger Brothers Clothing Store (William F. Greiger of 
                                Michigan City
                             and Fred B. Greiger)
                  401–403 South Walnut
               
               
                  
                     
                                New York
                             Hal Company (Joseph Levy)
                  109 North Walnut
               
               
                  Elias Jenkin's Clothing Store
                  220 South Walnut
               
               
                  Moses Hene's Clothing Store
                  120 South Walnut
               
               
                  Herman Eichel's Millinery Shop
                  309 South Walnut
               
               
                  Louis Friedman's Pipe Supplies
                  520 Wysor Street
               
               
                  Alexander Shonfield's Clothing Store
                  112 South Walnut
               
               
                  Roberts Hotel (George Roberts)
                  Corner of High and Howard
               
               
                  Klein's Cloak and Suit House (Leonard M. Klein)
                  New Kirby Hotel
               
               
                  Women's Ready-to-wear (Melville L. Altschul)
                  202 South Walnut
               
               
                  Shonfield's Clothing Store (Louis and Ray Shonfield)
                  100 West Main
               
               
                  Max Zeigler & Brothers Junk Yard (Max and Harry Zeigler)
                  620 East 6th Street20
                  
               
            
            The twenty-four businesses supported an estimated eighty or ninety Jewish families in the town and,
                    while the clothing businesses were most common, others did exist.21 Both
                    Freidman and Roberts (the owner of Roberts Hotel) made their money from oil and gas exploration.
                    Burgauer sold typewriters; Pazol sold jewelry; and Schwartz sold paper. Indorf had a pawn shop. Most
                    of these people had roots in 
                        Poland
                     and were in occupations far different from those held in Europe by their ancestors.
            Even the kinds of clothing stores cannot be predicted from the place of origin or the social class of
                    the owner. Jews from Eastern Europe did not necessarily cater to farmers or industrial workers; Jews
                    who arrived earlier from Western Europe did not necessarily sell to the business class. Of the three
                    best men's stores in 
                        Muncie
                    —The Moxy, Charles Indorf s Clothing Store, and Marx and
                    Kallmeyer—two were owned by Polish-born Jews. Indorf also owned a pawn shop with poorer
                    clients, which was located in a 
                  
                     20 Morris, "Focal Study." This list is not to be
                            taken as completely accurate at any particular date because it represents ownership over at
                            least a ten-year period when stores would often change hands several times.
                  
                     21 The estimate is Robert Burgauer's, given in his interview,
                            April 25, 1979. This estimate may overstate the number. Far fewer Jews are listed as temple
                            members in Shonfield's history, but, as we have seen, not all Jews were members.
                            Further, the number of members included persons who lived and worked in small towns outside
                            of 
                                Muncie
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  ROBERTS HOTEL, CORNER
                            OF HIGH AND HOWARD
                  
                  The hotel was built by George D. Roberts, who made a fortune in oil.
                  Courtesy Center for 
                                Middletown
                             Studies, Bracken Library, Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana
               
                    
                    
                  STILLMAN'S DEPARTMENT STORE (1919), HOUSED
                            IN A BUILDING CONSTRUCTED
                            BY GEORGE D. ROBERTS
                  
                  From the Conatser Collection, Courtesy Center for 
                                Middletown
                             Studies, Bracken Library, Ball State Unlverslty, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana
               
                     cheaper neighborhood. On the other hand, of the two leading
                    clothing stores for workingmen, one was owned by Sam Gold, a Polish-born Jew, who began his work
                    career in 
                        Muncie
                     in a scrapyard in 1907; the other, The Why, belonged to Will Freund who was born in
                    Illinois as the son of a 
                        German
                     immigrant. Both were in a bad neighborhood, one characterized by Freund's son
                    as "The Bowery District—the ‘Redlight’ District of 
                        Muncie
                    ."22 But bad location did not mean financial failure. Sam
                    Gold became one of the largest Jewish property owners in 
                        Muncie
                     from the profits of an establishment described by his daughter as "a
                    workingman's clothing store and I think it stood him in good stead to be in that type of
                    clothing business."23
            
            Business ownership did not guarantee social status; neither did 
                        Muncie
                     Jewry lack social division. The deepest divisions were between the 
                        German
                    -born Jews who arrived first and the Eastern European ones who came later. The division
                    in 
                        Muncie
                     was exacerbated by the fact that the most successful businessmen—Sam Gold
                    and Abe Feinberg—were latecomers from 
                        Poland
                     and less successful Jewish residents were embittered by the newcomer's
                    success. Pearl Shonfield described this division:
                        Those people who came from those many other countries—
                                Poland
                            , Russia, and many others—were shrewder and smarter than those 
                                German
                            -Jewish people who were so, so wonderful that they looked down upon these
                            people, but they, themselves, were not money-making people. I can remember my
                            husband's aunt and all just never thought any of the people who came there [
                                Muncie
                            ] were good enough for them.24
                  
                     This division seems typical of American Jewry which, according to William Toll, divided on
                    social rather than ideological grounds.25 At the same time, however, this
                    division was not quite what the members of the community believed it to be. It was as much a
                    division based on time of arrival and integration into the community as it was on country of origin.
            The history of the temple best shows the division which existed in the 1920s between those who had
                    first arrived and those who came later. There had been a Jewish congregation in 
                        Muncie
                     since the later nineteenth century. It had always been a Reform congregation (Reform
                    Judaism deemphasized the ritual practices of Orthodox or traditional Judaism and had been
                    popularized in America by Rabbi Isaac M. 
                        Wise
                    . Its center of strength in this country was at Hebrew Union College in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , established 
                  
                     22 Bernard Freund interview.
                  
                     23 Edith Garfield interview, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, May 14, 1979.
                  
                     24 Pearl Shonfield interview, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, May 14, 1979.
                  
                     25 Toll, "The ‘New Social History,’
                            " 336.
               
                     in the mid-1870s). There is no written record that makes clear
                    just why 
                        Muncie
                     had a Reform congregation. Perhaps it was because of the close proximity to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , which provided both business and religious connections. In the beginning, as now,
                    Temple Beth-El relied upon student rabbis from Hebrew Union College because its size made a
                    full-time rabbi beyond its means. Perhaps the reason for its being a Reform congregation was a
                    conscious decision that this best suited Jews in 
                        Muncie
                     since the situation in the town prevented practicing Jewish rituals.
            When interviewed by Whitney Gordon, the members of the Jewish community in the 1960s believed that
                    the temple was founded by "a very high calibre of 
                        German
                     Reform members. And that only later, especially after World War II, did the Orthodox,
                    Eastern European element intrude."26 Contrary to these beliefs, there
                    had been a considerable number of Orthodox, Eastern European Jews in 
                        Muncie
                     at the time of founding. Further, none of the very old people who were interviewed by
                    Vander Hill and Hoover had come from the Reform tradition; there were even four whose fathers had
                    been Orthodox rabbis or who had studied for the rabbinate in 
                        Poland
                    . Even the survey which Gordon made to determine the religious roots of the community
                    belied the comments of those he interviewed. He found that 67 percent of the population had grown up
                    in Orthodox homes, 18 percent in Reform ones, 11 percent in Conservative ones, and 1 percent from
                    Sephardic, Christian, or nonreligious homes27 Yet the Jewish population of 
                        Muncie
                     was a declining one in the 1960s according to the same persons; there had not been a
                    significant population transfer which would account for the large proportion of persons who had come
                    from Orthodox homes. The suggestion that 
                        German
                     Reform members were solely responsible for founding the temple thus appears untrue
                    since the Orthodox Eastern European element had such deep roots in the community.
            What appears to have happened was that Jews who came to the town, whatever their origin or religious
                    background, joined the congregation if they stayed long enough. Membership in the temple was a sign
                    of integration into the community, both the Jewish and the larger one. This process is illustrated
                    by the fact that when the congregation finally undertook to construct its own building in 1922, the
                    president of the congregation was Charles Indorf, a Polish-born Jew who was the only Jew who was
                    prominent in local municipal politics. The majority of the members had roots in Eastern Europe as
                    well.
            
               
                  26 Whitney Gordon, Community in Stress (
                            New York
                        , 1964), 8.
               
                  27
                        Ibid., 105.
            
            
            
               DOWNTOWN MUNCIE, JULY, 1924
               A crowd gathers to watch two Durants crash into each other as part of the production of the movie
                            
                     
                                Muncie
                            's Hero. In the middle of the photograph, the sign for the Marx
                        and Kallmeyer Clothing Store is visible.
               Courtesy Center for 
                            Middletown
                         Studies, Bracken Library, Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            
            
            The process of integration into the community was still operative in the 1920s according to the
                    testimony of persons interviewed by Vander Hill and Hoover. The Samuel Gold family came to 
                        Muncie
                     from 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1913; both Samuel and Sadie Gold had come from Eastern Europe. The David Dobrowitz
                    family which arrived about a decade later followed the same pattern as the Golds. Neither family
                    joined the temple in 
                        Muncie
                     initially. Instead, both retained their connections with Orthodox congregations in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , returning there to worship during the High Holidays. Edith Garfield, a daughter of the
                    Golds, attributed her parents' early refusal to become members of the temple to the fact
                    that "they felt they didn't really fit in with the Jewish community that was there [
                        Muncie
                    ] then."28 The Dobrows (Dobrow-itzes) may have been
                    motivated primarily by religious considerations. One informant recalled that the Dobrows tried
                    unsuccessfully to convert the congregation to Orthodox late in the 1920s.29
                    Despite the early resistance on the part of the Golds and Dobrows, later both families joined the
                    temple. They had become more a part of the community and no longer looked elsewhere for support. As
                    a son-in-law of the Golds put it, they had mellowed.30
            
            The evidence suggests that religious practice was not central to the life of the Jewish community in 
                        Muncie
                    . Few Jews refrained from working on Saturday or kept kosher homes. Burle Plank claimed
                    his father never worked a Saturday in his life nor did his mother violate dietary laws, but the
                    Planks were in the scrap metal and auto parts business which was somewhat removed from the center of
                    town and was less dependent upon Saturday business.31 A Jew selling clothes on
                    Walnut Street had more pressure to stay open on the main shopping day of the week. Similarly,
                    keeping kosher was difficult. Those who did, the Planks, Golds, and Dobrows, had to obtain the
                    properly killed meats from 
                        Indianapolis
                     or 
                        Fort Wayne
                     by interurban or car since there was no kosher butcher shop in 
                        Muncie
                    . For most other families, the effort was not worthwhile. The experience of the Pazols,
                    who moved to 
                        Muncie
                     in 1920, was typical. Mort Pazol recalled his mother's experience:
                        There was no kosher butcher shop around, which was a shock to my mother, who, although she
                            didn't keep kosher, insisted on kosher meat.
                        
                     
                        28 Garfield interview.
                     
                        29 Shonfield interview.
                     
                        30 Archie Lapin interview, 
                                    Muncie
                                , Indiana, February 27, 1979.
                     
                        31 Burle Plank interview, 
                                    Muncie
                                , Indiana, February 22, 1979.
                  
                        
                        
                     CROWD GATHERING FOR A SALE, APRIL 27, 1925, AT HENE'S CLOTHING STORE, 120 SOUTH WALNUT STREET
                     
                     Courtesy Center for 
                                    Middletown
                                 Studies, Bracken Library, Ball State University, 
                                    Muncie
                                , Indiana
                  
                        
                        
                     THE WHY, SEPTEMBER, 1922, 523 SOUTH WALNUT STREET
                     
                     Will Freund owned this store which sold clothes to workingmen. (Note the
                                jeans piled up in the window at the left.)
                     Courtesy Center for 
                                    Middletown
                                 Studies, Bracken Library, Ball State University, 
                                    Muncie
                                , Indiana
                  
                        
                        I remember mother's reaction at one time. She helped out in the store quite a bit,
                            so we had somebody to take care of us, to cook and so on. She came home and saw a beautiful
                            steak with a pat of butter soaking into it. She was shocked. It turned her stomach and she
                            threw it out. She learned not to do that shortly, but the first time was a big shock.
                        Mother was the oldest in a family of six girls. She couldn't see any reason for
                            keeping all of the dishes separate. She got away from it as fast as she could.32
                  
                    
            
            Most 
                        Muncie
                     Jews fit into the pattern of life and work in the town, although Robert Lynd noted one
                    exception when he returned to 
                        Muncie
                     in 1935. In reading the newspapers, he found that local Jewish businessmen had taken
                    out an advertisement indicating their stores would be closed on "religious
                    holidays," an advertisement which he believed would not have been made a decade earlier.33 This advertising probably marks a slowing of assimilation and a recognition
                    of ethnic and religious differences in the town.
            In the 1920s anti-Semitic and exclusionary sentiments grew in 
                        Muncie
                     as they did in Indiana and the country as a whole. Jews in the nineteenth century
                    participated much more widely in community life than they did in the twentieth century, as Martin D.
                    Schwartz testified: 
                        Historically, Jews had been much more active at the turn of the century than they
                            subsequently began to be, particularly after World War I which apparently unleashed all
                            kinds of prejudice in this country which hadn't been overt beforehand. Jews had
                            been members of the Elks. My father was an Elk. He had been in the Masonic Lodges and
                            everything back around the 1900 to 1910 era. Then the restrictions began to come in and it
                            became very difficult, if not impossible, for Jews to enter these organizations. There never
                            was a Jew member of a service club in 
                                Muncie
                             until the 1950s .... Wait a minute. What am I talking about? It was in the
                            middle sixties.34
                  
                    
            
            One of the most visible symbols of increased prejudice was the arrival of the Ku Klux Klan in 
                        Muncie
                     in late 1921. While Jews were a distant third to Catholics and blacks on the
                    Klan's hate list, the presence of the Klan was troubling.35 According
                    to local tradition, Republican businessmen brought the Klan to 
                        Muncie
                     to rid the town of the influence of the corrupt mayor Rollin "Doc"
                    Bunch, who had been convicted of mail fraud. The first 
                  
                     32 Mort Pazol interview, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, February 21, 1979.
                  
                     33 Robert S. and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition: A Study in Cultural Conflicts (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 462.
                  
                     34 Martin D. Schwartz interview.
                  
                     35 The best general treatment of the Klan after World War I is Kenneth
                            T. Jackson's The Ku Klux Klan in the City, 1915–1930 (
                                New York
                            , 1967). For the Klan in Indiana see James H. Madison, Indiana
                                through Tradition and Change: A History of the Hoosier State and Its People,
                                1920–1945 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Ind., 1982), 44–75.
               
                     Klavern reputedly met in the office of the local Chamber of
                    Commerce, and the initial membership was largely middle-class. The Klan organizers soon broadened
                    the base of membership to include members from the working class, and, by 1923, the Klan claimed a
                    membership of thirty-five hundred, which would mean that 10 percent of the population had joined.
                    The Klan exerted more influence than even these substantial numbers might suggest because members of
                    the secret society held important positions in local government and law enforcement. The chairman of
                    the Board of Public Safety, Philip W. McAbee, was a Klansman, as was the Chief of Police, Van
                    Benbow. Other members included Delaware Circuit Court Judge Clarence W. Dearth, who was immortalized
                    in 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     for his characterization of automobiles as houses of prostitution on wheels; Frank E. Barclay,
                    a member of the 
                        Muncie City
                     Council; Clarence Benadum, a prominent criminal lawyer, former 
                        Delaware County
                     prosecuting attorney, amateur novelist, and treasurer of the Klavern; and, most
                    prominent, John Hampton, a local businessman who had been chairman of the Republican Central
                    Committee in 1921, when the Klan first appeared in 
                        Muncie
                    , and who became mayor in 1925.36
            
            While membership in the Klan was supposedly secret and the power exercised by the informal network of
                    Klansmen concealed, the Klan's presence was highly visible because of its staged public
                    spectacles. The most spectacular of all of these was a parade of two thousand members in June, 1923.
                    This display of strength, however, backfired when Klan members attempted to coerce bystanders into
                    showing respect for the 
                        United States
                     flag draped over the hindquarters of a white horse ridden by a Kamelia. Among those
                    persons who felt physically threatened were two prominent Munsonians, a former congressman, George
                    W. Cromer, and the then 
                        Delaware County
                     prosecuting attorney, J. Frank Mann. The resulting altercation caused the Klan to lose
                    its more respectable members and, along with a schism in the ranks, marked the beginning of the
                    Klan's decline in the city.37
            
            During its short career in 
                        Muncie
                    , the Klan did shock the Jewish community with its overt anti-Semitism, although the
                    threat was not taken as seriously as might be supposed. However, Jewish residents of the time had no
                    trouble recalling Klan actions, as this quotation from Martin D. Schwartz indicates:
            
               
                  36 Carrolyle M. Frank, "Politics in 
                            Middletown
                        : A Reconsideration of Municipal Government and Community Power in 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana, 1925–1935," (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of
                        History, Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana, 1974), 58–84.
               
                  37
                        Ibid., 58–59.
            
            
            
                    O God, yes! I remember those [parades] down Walnut Street, many of them. Father always used to
                        take me down there, and I'd sit on his shoulders because I was a little kid.
                    [The Klan was] anti-Catholic, yes, and anti-black. There weren't enough Jews you see, in
                        my judgment, around 
                            Muncie
                         to make much of a target. Most of the Jews were in the retail business on Walnut
                        Street and most of them had very good relationships with their clientele. I don't think
                        anybody, particularly at that time, had any great hostility to them as business people. [The
                        citizens of 
                            Muncie
                        ] may have been prejudiced, probably were [but did not often show that bias].
                    But I remember some of those Klan torchlight parades and, of course, I used to comment on this.
                        You know the [Klan's] idea of Americanism was to have a big fat gal seated on a white
                        draft horse with the American flag draped over its rump ... [with her] sitting on it. That was
                        the 100 percent Americanism of the day. In retrospect, I never felt that it was any threat to my
                        parents because [if it had been] I don't think we'd have gone up to see the
                        parade.... It didn't really have strong anti-Semitic overtones in this area.38
               
                
            Perhaps one reason for the lack of fear was that familiar and popular persons belonged. One such
                    individual was the much beloved 
                        Muncie
                     Central basketball coach, Pete Jolly, whom Schwartz described as "a great guy
                    but who didn't know much about history or teaching," his major academic
                    responsibility. Jolly confessed to his students that he had joined the Klan but had become convinced
                    that the organization existed only to earn money for its organizers. An even more extreme case was
                    that of the Schwartz housekeeper, who not only joined the Klan but expected her employers to share
                    her pride of mernbership.39 If these two individuals had little sense of the
                    Klan's stated message, then the organization had failed to bend its members to its
                    purposes.
            Because of the gap between professed aims and actual practice, some members of 
                        Muncie
                    's Jewish community were not only friends of Klansmen but, in fact, used that
                    friendship to advantage. One good example is the experience of Harry Pazol, who was both a Jew and a
                    newcomer to 
                        Middletown
                    . Pazol bought a jewelry store in 
                        Muncie
                     in 1920 after failing to purchase one in his hometown of 
                        Cleveland
                    . Friendly and outgoing, Pazol soon made friends in the town and enjoyed the reputation
                    of being a practical joker. One night the joke was on him. He had driven downtown to meet a salesman
                    in his store, but had taken his second car which had expired license plates. After his meeting, he
                    discovered his car was missing from its parking place. Fearing it was stolen, he walked to the
                    police station, two short blocks away, to report the theft. When he arrived, he learned that the
                    police had impounded the car and were taunting him about the fact. According to his son,
            
               
                  38 Martin D. Schwartz interview.
               
                  39
                        Ibid.
            
            
            
               KU KLUX KLAN MARCH, MUNCIE, JUNE 2, 1923
               The marchers were passing Pazol's Jewelry Store, 206 South Walnut Street,
                        when the photograph was taken.
               Courtesy Center for 
                            Middletown
                         Studies, Bracken Library, Ball State University, Munrie. Indiana
            
            
            
                    The desk sergeant laughed at him and said, "We really got you! You didn't have
                        the right license plate on it; it's going to cost you; and you can't have it
                        tonight." Well, Dad got on the phone and called a friend of his whom he knew was high
                        in the Klan and told him about it. The Klansman said, "Let me talk to the
                        sergeant," so Dad did. I guess the sergeant really got told off because he gave my dad
                        his car and there was no charge, no fine of any type.40
               
                
            Neither was Pazol the only Jewish person who associated with Klansmen. When Archie Lapin moved to 
                        Muncie
                     from 
                        Portland
                    , Indiana, to enter into a law practice, he joined the firm headed by Clarence Benadum,
                    a notorious Klansman. Lapin, however, had only the kindest memories of Benadum.
            
                    I went into the office of Mr. Benadum who had formerly been very active in the Klan [as] an
                        organizer. The feeling was (although [I] myself have never felt anything nor did anything occur
                        which would give me the impression he was anti-Semitic) that he went into the Klan for the
                        money.... In any case, he was a benefactor.41
               
                
            Still, the Jewish community reacted to the presence of the Klan in a variety of other ways. Rachel
                    Lipp, whose family did not raise her as Jewish, was sent away to a Catholic boarding school in 
                        Terre Haute
                    .42 Sherman Zeigler, whose father owned a scrapyard, recalled that
                    Jews joined Catholics to combat the Klan's economic boycott of both groups. Catholic
                    automobile wreckers agreed to sell scrap only to Jewish yards. This mutual alliance actually
                    improved business.43 As a boy, Sherman benefitted from concerted action by
                    Jewish businessmen to combat anti-Semitism that was apparently not Klan-related. Sherman applied for
                    a paper route when he was twelve years old and was refused because he was Jewish. Sherman was
                    heartbroken so his father decided to act. Although the Zeiglers, by Sherman's own
                    admission, were not really accepted in the Jewish community because of their self-imposed isolation,
                    Sherman's father succeeded in persuading Jewish businessmen who advertised in the paper to
                    inform the Catholic publisher that they would discontinue their ads if such discrimination were not
                    ended. As a result, the publisher visited the Zeiglers, apologized, and offered Sherman the job.44
            
            These tactics, however, did not diminish the prevailing Christian ethos of 
                        Muncie
                    , which permeated almost every institution down to the public schools. In the decades
                    between the world wars, the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA), led by the
                    charismatic 
                  
                     40 Mort Pazol interview.
                  
                     41 Lapin interview.
                  
                     42 Rachel Lipp interview, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, March 2, 1979.
                  
                     43 Sherman Zeigler interview, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, February 26, 1979.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid.
               
                     director Herbert A. Pettijohn, sponsored Bible study in the
                    schools and won several national awards for the large numbers of students enrolled. Part of the
                    attraction for boys was the chance to win a week's stay at Camp Crosley, a summer camp
                    built by the YMCA in the 1920s with funds donated by the Ball family.
            The camp attracted Jewish boys who succeeded in winning scholarships. Alan Burgauer testified as to
                    his experiences at Camp Crosley: 
                        Well, I got interested [in community affairs] by going to a Christian camp. I was eight years
                            old [when I first went], and I was supposed to be nine. I learned to swim there.
                        This is a peculiar circumstance as the school had what was called Bible study. When I was in
                            school, maybe a Freshman or Sophomore, I signed up for that [course]. I didn't know
                            what it was but ... it had a lot to do with Christianity. Course, I guess we didn't
                            believe in that, but I took a test and won. Bernard Freund did, too, a week to Camp Crosley
                            free. We got a 100 on the test.45
                  
                     Surprisingly enough, there was little parental objection to either participation in the
                    course or to the week at camp. Morton D. "Bud" Roth described his
                    parent's reaction: 
                        My parents were a little bit concerned ... as to whether I should be studying the New
                            Testament. I always got great marks in it whenever they had the examination. I won three
                            trips to Camp Crosley. They [my parents] thought that was terrific even though they were a
                            little dubious about it at first. Three years in a row I won a free week at Camp Crosley
                            when I was in Emerson School, as a matter of fact. My folks were so poor at the time that my
                            Uncle George saw to it that if I won the first week, he would pay for me to go a second
                                week.46
                  
                     Part of the reason for lack of concern over participation in Christian exercises was the
                    perception that the values taught were close to those held in Jewish homes, or so Martin D. Schwartz
                    thought.
            
                    I would say that our home values were basically middle-class American. Great stress was placed on
                        the virtues of thrift and of work; the work ethic was extremely strong [as was emphasis on
                        learning]. The latter may or may not have been a middle-class value, maybe that was where Jewish
                        values came in. That was very important.... There was a lot of emphasis on bodily cleanliness
                        and mental cleanliness. A lot of this I suppose, if I think about it, could have been Protestant
                        or Puritanical. Yes, I'd say some of these values were Jewish, but there was an
                        enormous emphasis in my family on personal integrity, that you didn't lie, that you
                        were morally straight, the kind of things that H. A. Pettijohn used to teach us at the YMCA.47
               
                
            
               
                  45 Alan Burgauer interview, 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana, March 20, 1979.
               
                  46 Morton D. Roth interview, 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana, February 27, 1979.
               
                  47 Martin D. Schwartz interview.
            
            
            The sense of shared values between the Jewish and Christian communities was heightened by the lack of
                    interest in traditional religious practice among 
                        Muncie
                    's Jewish families. Schwartz's family was not untypical in this
                    regard. His mother, Anna Winick Schwartz, was born in 
                        Boston
                    , the daughter of a rabbi who had migrated from 
                        Lithuania
                     to 
                        Boston
                     before moving to 
                        South Africa
                    . She did not share his religious conviction and described herself as never being very
                    religious. Because she was orphaned at an early age and forced to go to work, she may have been so
                    preoccupied with the struggle to survive that religion seemed unimportant.48 Leo
                    Schwartz also was not concerned about religious matters. He discouraged Martin from learning Hebrew
                    and, according to his son, practiced Judaism perfunctorily.
            
                    I would say that we observed the major Jewish holidays. My father, steeped in this, had a
                        reasonable respect for them, yet was not particularly observant. His main observances were of
                        Yahrzeits, or the anniversaries of the deaths of his parents, and then, of course, on the High
                        Holy Days we would always be in the temple and also during Passover. Those were mainly the kinds
                        of observances we had; but we were not, I would say, particularly religiously observant.49
               
                
            The case of Harry Pazol paralleled that of Anna Winick. His father, like hers, was a rabbi who
                    migrated from 
                        Lithuania
                     to the 
                        United States
                     and who lived in strict accordance with Talmudic rules. His life was so exemplary that
                    his son could not imagine anyone being more religious. To Harry, though, this goodness appeared to
                    go unrewarded. In his old age Harry's father journeyed back to the Old World with the
                    intention of visiting his birthplace, as well as Palestine: he died aboard ship before he even got
                    ashore in 
                        Lithuania
                    . Based on his father's experience, Harry concluded that religion was of little
                    use and that he should invest little in it.50
            
            A third, similar example is that of the Zeigler family. Sherman Zeigler's father, who was
                    also born in 
                        Lithuania
                    , aspired to the rabbinate before he migrated to the 
                        United States
                     to escape service in the Czar's army. By that time he had reacted strongly
                    against religious life, actively discouraging his children from participation as well. Sherman
                    Zeigler described his own upbringing this way: 
                        I was never confirmed. I never had a Bar Mitzvah. I never had a religious education as far as
                            the temple was concerned, but my dad was very religious philosophically. In fact, my dad in
                            the old country studied to be a Jewish rabbi and rebelled against 
                        
                           48 Anna Schwartz interview.
                        
                           49 Martin D. Schwartz interview.
                        
                           50 Harry Pazol interview, 
                              Louisville, Kentucky
                           , May 31, 1979.
                     
                             it as a young man, but he was very learned in Jewish
                            history, Jewish religion, and Jewish background. Of course, as I grew up a lot of this was
                            passed on to me, and my values are based on the religion, philosophically, which
                            isn't really all that much different from any other religion.51
                  
                    
            
            The later arrivals from Eastern Europe were not the only Jews for whom religion had a low priority.
                    Those from Western Europe were equally secular. Rachel Lipp characterized her family in this
                    fashion: "Well, we were not Orthodox Jews. The background was completely 
                        German
                     on my father's side, and my mother's was a French background. No, I
                    hate to say it, but, very honestly, no, Jewish values were not important in my home."52 Ann Kallmeyer Secttor had a less strong reaction, but her evaluation was not
                    unlike Rachel Lipp's: "The [Jewish] values were there; my parents observed them;
                    and I think my father had a deeper sense of the meaning [of Jewishness], more so than mother at the
                    time. But it was never predominant. I never felt any different than anyone else."53
            
            To be a Jew in 
                        Muncie
                     in the age of the Lynds was to live in a community of flux, one characterized by
                    physical mobility, where status and religious affiliation often depended less on country of origin
                    than on time of arrival, where opportunities to participate fully in community life had shrunk, and
                    where anti-Semitism was openly articulated by the Ku Klux Klan. It meant residing in a community
                    permeated by Christian values, although these values did not appear completely alien. Despite the
                    discrimination and the pressures, Jewish Munsonians regarded themselves as little different from
                    their non-Jewish neighbors. Perhaps, in the end, the Lynds were partially justified in excluding the
                    Jewish community from 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                    . Clearly the values of that community, which were oriented around business success, paralleled
                    those of the larger one.
            
               
                  51 Zeigler interview.
               
                  52 Lipp interview.
               
                  53 Ann Kallmeyer Secttor interview, 
                            Marion
                        , Indiana, April 2, 1979.
            
         
         
         
            It Was Not Smallpox: The Miami Deaths of 1732 Reexamined
            
                    Joseph L. Peyser
                    ∗
                
            In October, 1732, Jean-Charles d'Arnaud, a twenty-six-year-old officer in the Troupes de la
                    Marine, was appointed by New 
                        France
                    's governor general, the Marquis de Beauharnois, as commandant of the French
                    and Miami Indian post in the vicinity of modern 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Within two weeks of his arrival at the Miami post, d'Arnaud was to
                    participate in a chain of events that have been misinterpreted to this day, despite his observations
                    and conclusions.
            In the fall of 1732 d'Arnaud observed a mysterious illness that caused the deaths of some
                    three hundred Miamis and related Ouiatanon and Piankeshaw Indians in what is now the state of
                    Indiana. The inception and progress of the fatal affliction and the cure of several of the victims
                    were reported in writing in October of that year to Beauharnois by d'Arnaud. Although the
                    report contains sufficient information to support the officer's conclusion that the deaths
                    were the result of a "subtle poison" in the brandy that the Miamis had purchased
                    at 
                        Oswego
                    , in the colony of 
                        New York
                    , the cause of the deaths has been recorded as smallpox by a number of modern
                    historians. This article presents evidence that smallpox could not have been responsible for these
                    deaths 
                  
                     ∗ Joseph L. Peyser is professor of French and education at
                            Indiana University at 
                                South Bend
                            . He is on leave for the 1985–1986 academic year as a Lilly Endowment
                            Faculty Fellow and Research Associate at the Newberry Library in 
                                Chicago
                            . The author wishes to acknowledge the valuable assistance of the following
                            persons: Ann G. Carmichael, M.D., Ph.D., Department of History and Philosophy of Science,
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ; John Parascandola, Ph.D., History of Medicine Division, National Library of
                            Medicine; James E. Bowes, M.D., M.P.H., health officer, 
                                St. Joseph County
                            , Indiana; and James B. Mowry, Pharm. D., director, Indiana Poison
                        Center.
               
                     and defends the commander's conclusion that the Miamis
                    and their relatives died from a poisonous substance in the brandy.
            Despite his youth, d'Arnaud had been an officer for ten years and had served in a number of
                    the western posts, including an assignment as second in command at Fort Frontenac on the
                    northeastern shore of Lake Ontario in the late 1720s. Most recently he had been at 
                        Detroit
                     where he had performed his duty "marvelously," in the words of the
                    governor general.1 At the time d'Arnaud assumed his first command at
                    the Miami post, the French were making desperate efforts to stop the Miami and other western nations
                    from trading with the English, particularly at 
                        Oswego
                     on Lake 
                        Ontario
                    . The French feared that the trade at this post, which commenced in 1724, was
                    "capable of causing the entire ruin of 
                        Canada
                    ."2 However, the abundant and inexpensive liquor and trade
                    goods offered there by the Anglo-Americans proved irresistible to the French-allied Indians. Hardly
                    had the young officer arrived among the Miamis when a flotilla of their canoes returned from 
                        Oswego
                     with a large supply of brandy. D'Arnaud related the subsequent
                    "astonishing" events in an official dispatch to Governor General Beauharnois on
                    October 25, 1732: 
                        The day after I had arrived at my post fifteen or sixteen Miami canoes arrived from 
                                Oswego
                             loaded with four hundred casks of brandy. Five or six days later they knocked
                            one in, in which there was the complete skin of a man's hand. This news spread
                            through the village and surprised them immensely. However, it did not put a stop to their
                            drunkenness; after three days two individuals who were fine in the evening were buried the
                            next day at eight in the morning. Then for more than three weeks, at least four died each
                            day. My statements to them that they had no decent food whatever in their village, and that
                            by dispersing in the woods they would find meat which would give them strength to fight off
                            the disease combined with the foul air (which the great number of bodies which surrounded
                            them created) persuaded them to go off to their winter quarters from which I have heard that
                            several were dying from time to time but not in as great numbers as in their village. (The
                            number of dead is presently one hundred fifty persons.)
                        The first did not astonish me at all; I attributed it to the excessive drinking. But the rest
                            astonished me more. I had the dead stripped and examined, and the conclusion for me was that
                            it was a poison as subtle as it was crafty, only taking effect after a rather considerable
                            time. I wanted to have more certain proof of this: a war chief of this nation who had become
                            particularly attached to me and 
                        
                           1 Governor General Marquis de Beauharnois and Intendant Gilles
                                    Hocquart to Minister Jean-Frédéric Phélypeaux de
                                    Maurepas, October 15, 1732, Series C11A, Vol. LVII, p. 340
                                    (Archives Nationales, Colonies, 
                                        Paris
                                    ); S. Dale Standen, "Arnaud (Darnaud, Darnault), Jean-Charles
                                    d'," Dictionary of Canadian Biography (11 vols., 
                                        Toronto
                                    , 1966–1982), III, 16.
                        
                           2 Marquis de la Galissonniere, "Memoir on the French
                                    Colonies in North America," December, 1750, in Edmund B.
                                    O'Callaghan and Berthold Fernow, eds., Documents Relative to
                                        the Colonial History of the State of 
                                            New York
                                        
                           ... (15 vols., 
                                        Albany
                                    , 1853–1887), X, 228.
                     
                             who deserved to be saved was attacked by the sickness.
                            I gave him a strong dose of orvietan which saved his life. In the same way I saved several
                            with this medicine, but not having any more, those who were deprived of this help all died,
                            and not one of those who used it perished.
                        The Miamis are not the only victims of this poison. The Ouiatanons came one hundred thirty
                            strong to perform the dance of the peace pipe. The brandy was not held back from them, but
                            after their return home, the same sickness overtook them and several letters from that
                            location informed me that almost all of them had died.
                        After their departure the Piankeshaws also came to visit the Miamis. The number of dead being
                            considerable, I told them about the desolation we were experiencing, informing them at the
                            same time that we were undergoing this disaster only because of the brandy that my Indians
                            had brought from the English. I added that coming to celebrate with their brothers it would
                            be unfortunate if they were to place themselves among those whom we were obliged to mourn
                            daily, and that the way to avoid it was not to stay long, but considering their expressions,
                            the brandy was a bigger chief than I, and thus they did not escape the sickness, since I
                            have received word that every day some of them were dying.3
                  
                    
            
            Several modern historians familiar with d'Arnaud's report and findings have
                    concluded nevertheless that a smallpox epidemic decimated the Miamis and their relatives, the
                    Ouiatanons and the Piankeshaws. Including her translation of d'hrnaud's report in
                    her "Ouiatanon Documents," Frances Krauskopf writes: "The Miami, Wea, and
                    Piankeshaws all suffered many deaths in 1733 [sic]. Although the commandant at the
                    Miami blamed the casualties on a subtle poison which the English had added to four hundred kegs of
                    brandy the Indians had brought from 
                        Oswego
                    , it is much more probable that they died from smallpox, which was reported to be raging
                    among them."4 In a footnote to her translation of the report, Krauskopf
                    reiterates: "Probably the many deaths were caused by a smallpox epidemic; at any rate the
                    reports for the following year talked about the ravages of the disease in the Miami
                        country."5 Referring to d'Arnaud's conclusion she
                    concedes that there is a possibility, although unlikely, that poison was responsible for the deaths
                    of almost three hundred Miamis and their relatives. Her judgment is based on official correspondence
                    from Governor General Beauharnois written in 1733, which unequivocally reports the spread of
                    smallpox from the Five Iroquois 
                  
                     3 Jean-Charles d'hrnaud to Beauharnois, October 25, 1732,
                                C11A, LVII, 348–50 (Archives Nationales). This report is
                            translated by the present author, as are all other quotations in this article from
                            French-language sources, unless otherwise noted. Frances Krauskopf has translated this
                            report into English and analyzed it in her "Ouiatanon
                                Documents" (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XVIII, No. 2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1957), 131–234. In Krauskopf's translation,
                            "Choueguen" is rendered incorrectly as "
                                Albany
                            " (p. 187), but she correctly referred to the 
                                New York
                             post as "
                                Oswego
                            " in her narrative (p. 146).
                  
                     4 Krauskopf, Ouiatanon Documents, 146.
                  
                     5
                     Ibid.. 182.
               
                    
                    
                  Map Prepared by Cathryn L. Lombardi.
               
                     Nations to the Miamis, Ouiatanons, and
                    Potawatomis—in particular ravaging the Miamis, "the hardest hit" of the
                    French-allied nations.6 However, Beauharnois himself and the Ministry of Marine
                    took d'Arnaud's evidence and conclusions seriously.7 John D.
                    Barnhart and Dorothy L. Riker repeat Krauskopf s opinion in Indiana to 1816: The
                        Colonial Period, concluding that the Miamis, Weas, and Piankeshaws were all victims of a
                    smallpox epidemic in 1732.8 In his article on d'Arnaud in the Dictionary of Canadian Biography, historian S. Dale Standen includes the
                    commandant's report on the tainted brandy in his documentation but ignores the possibility
                    of an actual poisoning: "A smallpox epidemic in 1732 decimated the Miamis and their
                    relatives, the Weas (Ouiatanons) and the Piankeshaws, causing most of them to disperse."9
            
            What evidence, then, justifies reopening this case to challenge the smallpox theory? The first bit of
                    evidence is the nostrum that d'Arnaud administered to the Indians he saved. He specifically
                    named the medication "orvietan" in his account of the disaster, which Krauskopf
                    translated merely as "a very strong nostrum." Hoping to discover the nature of the
                    illness that d'Arnaud said orvietan cured, this author located and examined a number of
                    seventeenth-, eighteenth-, and early nineteenth-century pharmacopoeias describing this
                        medication.10 The Pharmacopée Universelle
                    published in 
                        Paris
                     in 1697 presents orvietan as "a kind of opiate or a famous antidote which
                    takes its name from Orvieto, a city in 
                        Italy
                     where it was first made and used; the dosage is from one scruple to one and a half
                        drams.11
            
            The author of this compendium, Nicolas Leméry, described his orvietan formula as
                    "one of the best," having been "selected over the others in 1694 by the
                    master apothecaries of 
                        Paris
                    ."12 It is quite possible that d'Arnaud's
                    orvietan was the type mentioned by Leméry. Orvietan was well known in 
                        France
                    , where d'Arnaud was raised. It was hawked in the streets by charlatans
                    practicing medicine, surgery, and pharmacy. During their street-theater 
                  
                     6 Beauharnois to Maurepas, October 10, 1733, C11A,
                            LIX, 4–5, 18–19 verso, 37–38 verso (Archives Nationales).
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 5; Report on the Indians, October 10, 1733, C11A, LX, 446 (Archives Nationales).
                  
                     8 John D. Barnhart and Dorothy L. Riker, Indiana to 1816:
                                The Colonial Period (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1971), 84.
                  
                     9 Standen, "Arnaud," 16.
                  
                     10 Nicolas Leméry, Pharmacopée
                                Uniuerselle (
                                Paris
                            , 1697), 604–605; Jean-Baptiste Boyer, Pharmacopoea
                                Parisiensis (
                                Paris
                            , 1758), 86–88. See also Pharmacopoea Universalis
                            (Weimar, 1840), II, 339–40.
                  
                     11 Leméry, Pharmacopke Universelle, 41.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid.. 606.
               
                     presentations, which at times incorporated marionette shows,
                    most of these operators touted orvietan and "the marvelous efficacy of this infallible
                    antidote for all poisons and all venoms." Several tests of orvietan's
                    effectiveness as an antidote were recorded in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries in 
                        France
                    , but the judging and the procedures (administering poison to a pair of dogs and then
                    giving orvietan to one of them as an antidote) were of questionable character. One such instance in
                    1771 seems to have demonstrated orvietan's success, while another in 1697 proved
                        inconclusive.13
            
            Unfortunately, but not surprisingly, the five orvietan formulas examined in this research differ
                    widely in their composition, ranging from twenty-five ingredients in the 1697 Phurmopée Universelle to over fifty in the 1758 Pharmacopoea
                        Parisiensis. Four of the five, including Leméry's, contain an opiate.
                    If the orvietan used by d'Arnaud did indeed contain an opiate, the success of his cure may
                    well have been in controlling nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea, which might have been caused by a
                    toxin or poison in the brandy.
            A second piece of evidence appears in the commandant's report about his examination of the
                    stripped bodies of the dead victims. Obviously he was looking for skin lesions or other external
                    signs of a disease. The French in 1732 were well aware of the mortal danger of smallpox in the St.
                    Lawrence-Great Lakes region because of the periodic epidemics during the preceding one hundred
                    years. It is quite clear that d'Arnaud stripped the dead in order to search for indications
                    of this dread disease.
            If smallpox had been the cause of the deaths, d'Arnaud would have observed its unmistakable
                    symptoms. After an incubation of about twelve days, a moderate case of the disease is characterized
                    first by a very high fever (102 to 106°F), headache, severe backache, abdominal pain, and
                    vomiting. Three or four days later the focal eruption begins with painful ulcers on the mouth and
                    macules (reddish spots) which appear first on the face and forearms. These macules rapidly become
                    papules (pimples) which increase in number and spread from the face and distal extremities to the
                    trunk. In three or four more days the papules progress to vesicles (blisters) which become pustular
                    a few days later. The fever recurs with the formation of the pustules, which dry into foul-smelling
                    crusts and scabs that usually fall off three weeks 
                  
                     13 E. Gueguen, "L'Essaie de
                            l'orvietan," Revue d'histoire de la Pharmacie,
                            LI (September-November, 1963), 172; E. Gueguen, "Le Proces peu edifiant
                            d'Avril Lescot," Revue d'histoire de la
                            Pharmacie, XLV (March, 1957), 66–67.
               
                     after the beginning of illness, leaving small scars or deep
                        pits.14 The first paragraph of d'Arnaud's report indicates
                    that he wrote it more than three weeks after the onset of the malady. Had smallpox
                    been raging at his post, d'Arnaud would most certainly have recognized the disease after
                    observing the deaths of one hundred fifty Miami Indians.
            It has been suggested that the French officers might have covered up an outbreak of smallpox;
                    however, the official correspondence previously cited shows otherwise. Governor General
                    Beauharnois's communique to the minister of marine, Jean-Frederic Phelypeaux de Maurepas,
                    on May 1, 1733, not only reports the spread of smallpox from the Iroquois to the Miamis and
                    Pot-awatomis, but adds that "the brandy that they had gone to get from the English also
                    contributed to their loss, and I must, My Lord, inform you of what was communicated to me by the
                    commandant of the Miamis about the extraordinary effects of this drink."15 Further, d'Arnaud himself reported a smallpox epidemic among the Miamis and
                    Ouiatanons on May 30, 1733, a message that Beauharnois transmitted to the minister of marine on July
                    24, 1733, and again on October 10, 1733.16 There are no indications of a
                    cover-up by the officers. Since the fort commander observed no classic smallpox or other external
                    symptoms, since a poison antidote saved all the sick treated with it, and since an opiate such as
                    orvietan could not have saved smallpox victims, the historians' distrust of
                    d'hrnaud's report is unjustified. Even if smallpox did strike the Miamis after the events described by d'Arnaud, a mass poisoning in 1732 cannot
                    be ruled out.
            A document from a Jesuit missionary in 
                        Kaskaskia
                     (in the Illinois Country) may provide additional evidence on the mass deaths. On April
                    28, 1733, Father Jean-Antoine Le Boullenger reported in a letter to Louisiana Governor Jean-Baptiste
                    Le Mope de Bienville that "there was a high death rate last autumn and last winter which
                    was a very severe one; more than 200 Miamis 
                  
                     14 George W. Thorn, et al., eds., Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine, (8th edition, 
                                New York
                            , 1977; orig., 1950), 1017. A form of this disease, "smallpox sine eruptione," is recorded, but while death may occur before
                            the eruption of pustules, other prominent symptoms are present. Patients have a fever, are
                            toxemic, and bleed readily. If they live, bruises will be visible. It is difficult to
                            believe that none of the Indians had marks on their bodies if all had died from smallpox sine eruptione, and even more difficult to believe that all would die from
                            an uncommon form of the disease. See Paul Biddulph Wilkinson, Variations on a
                                Theme by Sydenham: Smallpox (
                                Bristol
                            , Eng., 1959), 8–9.
                  
                     15 Beauharnois to Maurepas, October 10, 1733, C11A, LIX, 5 (Archives Nationales).
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 19, 37.
               
                     died in three villages under Mr. de Vincennes'
                        command."17 The letter, detailed in other respects, fails to
                    identify the cause of death; the severe winter cannot account for the autumn deaths. This may be an
                    additional corroboration of d'Arnaud's report.
            An intriguing detail reported by the fort commander that adds to the likelihood of toxin in the
                    brandy is the presence of the complete skin of a man's hand in one of the brandy kegs,
                    suggesting that someone had tampered with the liquor. Most of the liquor traded by small merchants
                    and Indian traders at 
                        Oswego
                     was obtained from numerous distillers in 
                        New York
                     (whereas the rum supplied by the major 
                        New York
                     businessmen came from the West Indies).18 The brandy could,
                    therefore, have been contaminated at a 
                        New York
                     distillery. More likely, however, is the possibility that the contamination occurred at 
                        Oswego
                    , where most of the 
                        New York
                     traders added large amounts of water to the liquor after its arrival in order to make
                    up for the high cost of transporting the loaded barrels in the wilderness.19
            
            This author consulted medical authorities who were unanimous in concluding that it was highly
                    unlikely that the skin as a contaminant could have produced the catastrophic effects. Further,
                    infectious or contagious diseases appear not to have been involved, and the introduction of a toxic
                    substance into the brandy remains the most likely cause of the Miamis' deaths.
                    D'Arnaud intimates that the poison ("as subtle as it was crafty") was
                    intentionally introduced into the kegs by the English ("we were undergoing this disaster
                    only because of the brandy that my Indians had brought from the English"); however, there
                    is no conceivable reason why the Anglo-Americans would want to kill their good customers, the
                    Miamis, who were becoming increasingly friendly with them and ever more disenchanted with the
                    French.
            On the other hand, the French in 
                        Paris
                    , in 
                        Canada
                    , and at their Great Lakes posts were irate about the success of the 
                        Oswego
                     post. By drawing the western Indians and their furs away from the French, the new
                    English post was jeopardizing New 
                        France
                    's economic base. In 1727 Governor General Beauharnois ordered 
                  
                     17 Father Jean-Antoine Le Boullenger to Governor Jean-Baptiste Le
                            Moyne de Bienville, April 28, 1733, C13A, XVII, 286 (Archives
                            Nationales). The 
                                Vincennes
                             referred to here is François-Marie Bissot de 
                                Vincennes
                            , commandant of Fort Ouia-tanon and later of the Wabash River post located near
                            the city now bearing his name.
                  
                     18 Thomas E. Norton, The Fur Trade in Colonial 
                                    New York
                                , 1686–1776 (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1974), 89.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 113; Johnson Gaylord Cooper, "
                                Oswego
                             in the French-English Struggle in North America, 1720–1760"
                            (D.S.S. dissertation, 
                                Syracuse
                             University, 1961), 93.
               
                     the English at 
                        Oswego
                     to demolish the post and subsequently began to assemble an army to attack it. The
                    attack, however, was prevented by orders from the French court in 1728 not to take any overt action against 
                        Oswego
                     to destroy the English trade there.20 While Louis XV had ruled out
                    a military response to the 
                        Oswego
                     menace, the French in North America took both official and clandestine measures to try
                    to keep the western Indians away from the 
                        New York
                     post.
            To counter the cheap liquor available at 
                        Oswego
                    , French traders began selling brandy at Fort Frontenac and Fort Niagara, despite the
                    threats of the French colony's religious leaders. Strict regulations on the sale of liquor
                    to the Indians were relaxed. The French had to lower the price of their merchandise at these posts
                    at considerable cost to the merchants and to the Crown. In addition to the French-allied western
                    Indians, French traders surreptitiously brought their furs to 
                        Oswego
                     for the low-cost English trade goods available there. To prevent illegal French traders
                    from reaching 
                        Oswego
                     and to persuade Indian convoys to return, the Quebec government built two sailing
                    vessels to patrol Lake 
                        Ontario
                    .21
            
            Throughout New 
                        France
                     the "disaster" of the 
                        Oswego
                     post engendered in both officials and traders feelings of apprehension and
                    "continuing hatred," which finally took the form of a threat to the French-allied
                    Indians who traded there. The 
                        New York
                     colonial records of the 1730s reveal some of the extremes of the economic warfare waged
                    by the French against their non-cooperative Indian allies. On February 8, 1731, the Indian
                    commissioners wrote that the French "raised a Report in their Country that the Plague
                    & Small Pox (wch is full as dreadful to the Indians) raged at 
                        New York
                    ," which caused the Commissioners to propose sending agents "amongst
                    the far Indians in order to contradict & convince them of the falshood [sic] of these Reports."22 On July 30, 1736, an 
                        Oswego
                     resident wrote that "some Miamis Indians who were arrived at 
                        Oswego
                     complained that the French had stopped them at Niagara & forcibly taken from
                    them part of their Goods." And, most significantly, the same letter stated "That a
                    Great Sachem of the Ottawawa [sic] Nation had been there & 
                  
                     20 Norton, The Fur Trade, 166–68; W. J.
                            Eccles, The Canadian Frontier, 1534–1760 (Albuquerque, New 
                                Mexico
                            , 1983), 143–45; Cooper, "
                                Oswego
                             in the French-English Struggle," 51–58, 60–61.
                  
                     21 W. J. Eccles, 
                        
                                    France
                                 in America (
                                New York
                            , 19731, 110; Norton, The Fur Trade, 172.
                  
                     22 Peter Wraxall, An Abridgement of the Indian Affairs
                                ... Transacted in the Colony of 
                                    New York
                                 from the Year 1678 to the Year 1751, ed. Charles H. McIlwain (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1915), 182.
               
                     given Information that the French had been among the far
                    Nations & told them they were detirmined [sic] to cut off 
                        Oswego
                    
                    & kill all those Indians who should go there to trade" (italics
                        added).23
            
            It is obvious from the foregoing that a motive existed for disgruntled French traders or agents to
                    kill some of their erstwhile trading partners to discourage other western Indians from going to 
                        Oswego
                    . If the French poisoned brandy or rum from that post, two ends would be achieved:
                    first, the Indians would be afraid to drink (and trade for) English liquor; and second, the blame
                    could be assigned to the English, not the French.
            While hard evidence for intentional poisoning is lacking, there is sufficient documentary evidence to
                    establish a motive for such an act, and d'Arnaud's contention cannot be lightly
                    discarded. At the same time, one cannot disregard the possibility of an unintentional contamination
                    of the brandy due to the undoubtedly unsanitary practices of the Anglo-American traders, who
                    regularly diluted the liquor at 
                        Oswego
                    , so that sometimes the jugs contained nothing but water.24 This
                    possibility is strengthened by Peter Wraxall's record of the Iroquois's statement
                    in 1737 that "they think there is some Poison at 
                        Oswego
                     for many have died there (meaning that it is an Unhealthy place)."25
            
            Whether the poisoning was intentional or unintentional, Governor General Beauharnois did not hesitate
                    to turn d'Arnaud's report to his colony's economic and political
                    advantage, as recorded in 1733 by an aide to the minister of marine in 
                        France
                    : 
                        M. de Beauharnois sent to all the missionaries in the upper and lower countries [i.e. the
                            Great Lakes basin and 
                                Canada
                            ] a copy of the letter by which Sieur d'Arnaud reported this news in
                            order for them to inform the Indians to turn them away from trading for brandy with the
                            English. The copy to the missionary at Miramichy produced the desired effect. The Indians to
                            whom he had it read decided to no longer trade with the Acadians who have English
                            merchandise and asked him to thank M. de Beauharnois and to ask the governor general to send
                            a large boat to them every year for trading, since they no longer want to do business with
                            the English.26
                  
                    
            
            Indeed, seventeen years later Beauharnois's successor, Marquis de LaJonquière,
                    upon taking office, cautioned the western Indians as follows: "My children, if you are
                    faithful to my words, you will no longer taste the Englishmen's brandy. It is a poison
                    which will take your lives without your knowing it, and further 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 197.
                  
                     24 Cooper, "
                                Oswego
                             in the French-English Struggle," 93n.
                  
                     25 Wraxall, An Abridgement, 204.
                  
                     26 Report on the Indians, October 10, 1733, C11A,
                            LX, 444 verso (Archives Nationales).
               
                     more they are only seeking to seduce you to make themselves
                    masters of your land and to treat you like slaves."27
            
            In sum, a review of the evidence supports d'Arnaud's conclusion that the Miamis
                    died of a toxin in the brandy purchased at 
                        Oswego
                     and not from smallpox, as other historians have written. At best, the contamination
                    occurred as a result of the unsanitary practices of unscrupulous Anglo-American traders at 
                        Oswego
                    ; at worst, French agents, working for economic and political ends, brought about the
                    catastrophe that struck down hundreds of Indians in what is today the state of Indiana. But whether
                    or not the poisoning was intentional, the case against smallpox as the cause of the deaths is
                    convincing. D'Arnaud's report is worthy of far greater credibility than that which
                    historians have assigned to it thus far.
            
               
                  27 Speeches of the Potawatomis of the 
                            St. Joseph
                         River and the governor's replies, 
                            Montreal
                        , June 29, 1750, C11A, XCV, 250 verso,
                    ibid.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Shawnee Prophet. By R. David Edmunds. (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of Nebraska Press, 1983. Pp. xii, 260. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $16.95.)
            The preface to The Shawnee Prophet reveals how R. David Edmunds, a careful student
                    of Indian society and culture, gradually changed his views on the leadership contributions of the
                    two Shawnee brothers, Tenskwatawa (the Prophet) and Tecumseh. The author's examination of
                    manuscript sources relating to tribal affairs in the Old Northwest is very impressive. Edmunds
                    recounts that when he examined documents for the period 1805 to 1810, Tecumseh's name
                    hardly appeared. In contrast, the author mined several historical nuggets concerning the role of the
                    Prophet. He concludes that the Shawnee religious leader served as the "catalyst for the
                    Indian movement sweeping through the Old Northwest" (p. 92). Edmunds champions the role of
                    the Prophet, yet he concedes that after the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1809, Tecumseh and his militant Indian confederacy came to dominate the Indian
                    movement. Tenskwatawa and Tecumseh allied themselves and their followers with the British in the War
                    of 1812. Indian and British fortunes were dealt a heavy blow with Tecumseh's tragic death
                    in 1813 at the Battle of the Thames. The Indian cause never recovered. The British and American
                    governments refused to support the Prophet after the conflict. In summary, the religious
                    leader's life drifted for the next twenty years. Edmunds's narrative of the
                    Prophet's last two decades is little more than a sketch. About forty pages relate to the
                    period 1815 through 1836, the year of his death.
            The author has done much to rehabilitate the Prophet and to establish his true role as an Indian
                    religious leader. Yet upon Tecumseh's death, the Shawnee brother tried to become a
                    political leader but failed. While others maintained tribal positions of leadership,
                    Tenskwatawa's opportunism and self-doubt shadowed him constantly. His former influence was
                    gone, and he could never regain it.
            Edmunds maintains that the Prophet has always been in the shadow of his brother. He is correct that
                    Tecumseh has appealed to generations of white Americans because of their proclivity toward political
                    and military leadership. It is true, however, that Americans have also recognized religious and
                    cultural leaders who raised and maintained a faithful following or altered the direction of their
                    culture. A more detailed comparison of the 
                    
                  TENSKWATAWA, THE SHAWNEE PROPHET
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                Prophet and his Shawnee rival, Black Hoof, would be instructive. The latter also saw and
                    felt the powerful forces of acculturation. For over forty years the Ohio Shawnees followed Black
                    Hoof as he worked and struggled to maintain their tribal integrity.
            Despite Edmunds's mastery of sources and the weaving of an articulate biography, one is not
                    convinced that Tenskwatawa was an Indian leader of the first rank. The Shawnee religious man died in
                    obscurity on the Kansas plain.
            
               National Archives and Records Administration, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C. George Chalou
         
         
         
            
               The Structure of American Medical Practice, 1875–1941. By George
                    Rosen. Edited by Charles E. Rosenberg. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : University of Pennsylvania Press, 1983. Pp. viii, 152. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliographical note, index. Clothbound, $22.50; paperbound, $9.95.)
            
               The Social Transformation of American Medicine. By Paul Starr. (
                        New York
                    : Basic Books, Inc., Publishers, 1982. Pp. xiv, 514. Notes, index. Clothbound,
                    $24.95; paperbound, $11.95.)
            George Rosen and Paul Starr, in their respective books, provide new and interesting insights into the
                    history of American medicine in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Although both authors focus
                    on the economic and social history of medicine rather than on the traditional history of
                    therapeutics, Rosen's book is written from the perspective of a historian, whereas
                    Starr's work is written from that of a sociologist.
            George Rosen's study of the structure of American medical practice was originally part of
                    the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's Richard H. Shryock lecture series. Rosen had intended to expand his lectures
                    into a book, but died before completing this important volume. The task of editing the manuscript
                    fell to Charles E. Rosenberg. Since Rosen left no text for his lectures on the period between 1941
                    and 1975, Rosenberg decided to publish Rosen's existing manuscript with the addition of a
                    bibliographic essay and a concise and well-written prologue summarizing American medicine in the
                    early nineteenth century.
            In the late nineteenth century, as Rosen explains, changes in both society and within the profession
                    radically altered medicine and the way it was practiced. Early nineteenth-century physicians
                    practiced their art in the patient's home and used therapeutics understandable to the
                    patient. By the end of the century, the treatments, which had become increasingly complex, were
                    administered either in the doctor's office or in an impersonal hospital setting. During
                    this same period, the profession also witnessed the growth of specialism, the improvement of medical
                    education, and the rise of public health services. Yet, despite the transformation of
                    medicine's structure, physicians only adopted those changes that safeguarded the private,
                    fee-for-service, solo practice of medicine. For example, doctors willingly opted for office practice
                    over home practice because they viewed the former as a method of economizing on their time and
                    resources. Physicians, however, opposed lodge and contract practice, dispensatories, and public
                    health clinics because they believed these forms of medicine undermined the private practice of
                    medicine by providing unfair  competition in the medical
                    marketplace. In short, Rosen claims that physicians controlled the market conditions of supply and
                    demand, which enabled them to shape the structure of medicine so that it encouraged professional
                    autonomy.
            It is indeed unfortunate that Rosen was unable to complete this well-researched economic and social
                    history of medicine to 1975. Although Rosen's work represents a significant contribution to
                    the understanding of American medical practice from 1875 to 1941, the book has a few shortcomings.
                    Rosen's coverage of the beginnings of the struggle for compulsory health insurance is
                    meager. Moreover, Rosen fails to explain how physicians gained the authority necessary to oppose
                    successfully alternative forms of medical practice. It is in the discussion of these latter two
                    topics that Paul Starr in his work on the history of American medicine is so successful.
            In his comprehensive, two-part work on medicine from 1760 to 1980, Starr masterfully incorporates the
                    techniques of sociology with methodology of social, economic, and public policy history to explain
                    the medical profession's rise to a position of prominence in the late nineteenth and
                    twentieth centuries. In his analysis of the medical profession, Starr draws upon a vast amount of
                    primary and secondary literature. His purpose is not only to sketch a history of the transformation
                    of medicine during this period, but also to examine the following questions: how were physicians
                    able to achieve cultural authority and power; why did hospitals, rather than public organizations,
                    become the major institutions for providing medical care; and why was there never a system of
                    national health insurance in the 
                        United States
                    .
            In the first part of his work, Starr describes the physicians' attempts to achieve
                    professional sovereignty, or "cultural authority." During the eighteenth and much
                    of the nineteenth centuries, the medical profession was severely divided, financially insecure, and
                    lacking public esteem. In the late nineteenth century, discoveries in science and medicine helped
                    establish "legitimate complexity" in medicine. The demand for physicians increased
                    with improved transportation and the invention of the telephone. Yet, as Starr notes, these
                    developments alone did not guarantee physicians cultural authority. To gain authority and insure
                    their sovereign status, doctors had to end professional infighting, secure effective licensing
                    legislation, and limit the number of medical schools and medical school graduates. Systematically,
                    physicians were either able to eliminate or accommodate the many threats to professional
                    sovereignty. For example, in the middle and late nineteenth century, homeopathic medicine had become
                    popular and thus posed a serious threat to regular practitioners  Physicians initially excluded homeopaths from membership in the American Medical Association, but
                    soon realized that by including this group in their regular ranks, they would increase their chances
                    of securing licensing legislation. In the twentieth century, hospitals and other health care
                    organizations had become central to the practice of medicine. These institutions, too, served as a
                    potential menace to the sovereignty of physicians. Although doctors easily could have become
                    employees of hospitals, they were able to maintain their sovereignty while using the hospitals to
                    enhance their professional status. Thus, Starr, like Rosen, argues that physicians were able to
                    shape the structure of medicine—a structure that insured professional autonomy.
            In his second part, Starr examines medicine's transformation into a vast industry and
                    studies the role of the corporation and state in that industry. Starr thoroughly explores the
                    movement against compulsory health insurance, the structure of private medical insurance, and the
                    rise of Medicare and Medicaid. Starr notes that even as medicine became a giant industry in the
                    twentieth century, physicians were able to maintain their professional sovereignty. But, as Starr
                    adds, whether physicians will be able to maintain that sovereignty in the future is uncertain.
            Although Starr's work is more comprehensive than Rosen's, both books should be
                    required reading for medical historians and social historians, as well as anyone interested in the
                    health care industry.
            
               Indiana Historical Society and Indiana Medical History Museum, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Katherine Mandusic McDonell
         
         
            
               The Growth of Federal Power in American History. Edited by Rhodri
                    Jeffreys–Jones and Bruce Collins. (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern Illinois University Press. 1983. Pp. xviii, 207. Table, notes,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $22.50.)
            As the title indicates, this is a collection of essays on the general theme of the growth of federal
                    power in American history. What makes it rather unusual is that all the authors of these articles
                    are English or Scottish scholars who, with the exception of one or two, teach 
                        United States
                     history in English or Scottish universities. Although this collection is not a
                    festschrift in the usual sense of the word, all the authors are former colleagues, students, or
                    friends of William Brock, who pioneered in the teaching of 
                        United States
                     history at 
                        Cambridge
                     University before moving on to the University of 
                        Glasgow
                    . The book is dedicated to Brock, and it is a worthy tribute.
            
            The format is twelve, twelve-page essays, each dealing with a different chronological period,
                    sandwiched between introductory and concluding essays by editors Bruce Collins and Rhodri
                    Jeffreys-Jones. Each author deals with some aspect of growing federal power or, nearly as
                    frequently, with the evolution and significance of a rationale in opposition to it.
            A point of view that most of the authors have in common is an implicit approval of the expansion of
                    federal power. As editor Jeffreys-Jones observes, this perspective may well stem from an English
                    trust in a powerful central government. Indeed, by way of an essay on Henry Carey, editor Bruce
                    Collins finds his modern American bête noire in 
                        Milton
                     Friedman, whom he accuses of misusing history in his arguments against the welfare
                    state.
            As is usually the case with such collections of essays, the value of the works varies considerably,
                    and space does not permit an extended critique of each. It might be noted, however, that at least
                    two essays, those on the 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., race riots of 1919 by Adriane Cook and on the Peace Corps by Gerard T. Rice,
                    contribute nothing to the discussion of federal power. On the other hand, particularly stimulating
                    and sophisticated are the essays by David Turley on the abolitionists, by Anthony Badger on recent
                    historical research on the relationship of localities and the New Deal, and by Harold Hyman on the
                    current debate on the nature and value of federalism. All the essays indicate a familiarity with
                    pertinent recent scholarship, and a number show evidence of considerable research in archival
                    sources.
            For the most part these essays are worthwhile reflections on a significant topic. Their audience,
                    however, will be limited largely to professional historians and political scientists.
            
               Saint Mary's College and Holy Cross Junior College, Notre Dame, Ind.
                    Bernard F. Donahoe
         
         
            
               History of the 
                            United States
                         Army. Enlarged edition. By Russell F. Weigley. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1984. Pp. vi, 730. Appendix, notes, index. Paperbound,
                    $10.95.)
            Russell F. Wiegley's study, the History of the 
                            United States
                         Army, updated and reprinted by Indiana University Press, is not for the casual
                    reader. Neither is it for the reader looking for a one-volume "drum and trumpet"
                    history of American wars. (For that, readers should refer to the West Point Atlas of
                        American Wars, 1962, which will give them an extensive overview of 
                        United States
                     wars.) It is not an attempt to show how the 
                        United States
                     army fits into the social, economic, and political fabric of the  nation, as Walter Millis's Arms and Men
                    (1958) does. This is pure institutional history. Admittedly, it is rather unique institutional
                    history—the history of General Motors or IBM would not read the same way—but
                    it is as close to being history in a vacuum as one could imagine for an organization that is so
                    complex and subject to outside forces.
            These are not negative comments. Indeed, Weigley's book is essential for anyone trying to
                    understand how the army works. By isolating that organization from society as a whole, Weigley has
                    been able to examine it from the inside, looking at the philosophies, struggles, successes, and
                    failures of the men who have shaped the army since the Revolution. In so doing, he follows the
                    argument that has existed throughout American history—whether to maintain a large
                    professional army or to rely on a citizen army to be raised when needed. There have been several
                    works detailing the ongoing debate within American society that balances concern for the cost of a
                    large standing army against the perceived need for sufficient military power to deter possible
                    aggressors. But few works have treated the army establishment's feelings on the matter.
                    Weigley does this well. As would be expected, most of the military leaders favored the professional
                    approach, subscribing to the philosophy of General Emory Upton in their disdain for the citizen
                    soldier and in their warnings of dire consequences if the nation did not maintain a large
                    professional army. Interestingly, however, not all leaders felt this way. There grew up, especially
                    after World War II, a large influential minority, led by the ideas of John McAuley Palmer, who
                    believed that the citizen soldier, if properly trained and led, could be as reliable as the
                    professional soldier. This belief not only made good sense to the American public and hence to the
                    politicians, but was also the only acceptable philosophy within the American tradition. The army
                    might work to strengthen its forces and hone its skills, but only inside the parameters imposed on
                    it by political reality.
            Weigley carries this discussion through his last chapter, which he added more than fifteen years
                    after the first edition. In dealing with the army and its problems during and after 
                        Vietnam
                    , Weigley concludes that the army would do well not to neglect its reserve forces.
                    Although a Soviet invasion of Europe would have to be fought and contained initially by the highly
                    professional and highly trained regular army with its extremely sophisticated weapons, Weigley
                    foresees an eventual stalemate developing that would necessitate quick involvement of the reserve
                    forces and the conscripted citizen soldier.
            
               Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Raymond L. Shoemaker
         
         
         
            
               The Explorers: Nineteenth Century Expeditions in Africa and the American West.
                    By Richard A. Van Orman. (Albuquerque: University of New 
                        Mexico
                     Press, 1984. Pp. xiii, 243. Illustrations, maps, notes, index. $19.95.)
            During the past decade interest in comparative history has grown steadily, and The
                        Explorers is another contribution to the field. In it the author compares
                    nineteenth-century explorations in the 
                        United States
                     with those of the British in Africa. His general theme is that three types of ideas and
                    concerns motivated the explorers. These were a genuine interest in science and learning, a growing
                    nationalism, and the moral obligation to bring "civilization" to the so-called
                    backward peoples of the two continents. The author finds that, while acting on these interests, the
                    American and British explorers actually advanced the process of imperialism and colonialism.
            Considering the issues topically, Van Orman discusses the myths surrounding the American West and
                    much of Africa. Then he considers the native peoples, the environment, the explorers, and the
                    results of their actions. He shows that, for outsiders, Africa represented danger and death, while
                    the American West appeared as something positive, even idyllic. Another difference was that American
                    explorers observed mostly vacant parts of their own territory, while British expeditions trekked
                    across foreign lands on a heavily populated continent. Third, British activities in Africa tended to
                    be much more violent than those of American parties in the West.
            Although he moves between American and English explorers easily, Van Orman gives little evidence of
                    any comparative structure or method. At the same time, his study lacks focus. When considering myths
                    or objectives, he ranges well beyond the chosen time period, thereby weakening the impact of his
                    ideas. A related difficulty is that the reader never gets a clear idea of who all of the major
                    explorers were, where they went, or what they accomplished. Yet there are sensitive portraits of
                    some individuals and events in the narrative.
            At the same time the book brings together a broad range of ideas and information. Regarding American
                    explorations, the people, events, and ideas have appeared in the work of Robert Berk-hofer, William
                    Goetzmann, Donald 
                        Jackson
                    , and others. For British activity in Africa, Van Orman offers an interesting portrait
                    of major figures much less familiar to American readers. Throughout, the narrative is clear and
                    interesting, and well-designed maps help the reader follow the action. The tasks Van Orman set for
                    himself are compelling, and to have succeeded he needed at least  twice the space of the present volume. Nevertheless, this book is a good effort at bridging the
                    scholarly gap that so frequently separates the continents.
            
               University of 
                     Arizona, Tucson
                  
                Roger L. Nichols
         
         
            
               Stagecoach East: Stagecoach Days in the East from the Colonial Period to the Civil
                        War. By Oliver W. Holmes and Peter T. Rohrbach. (
                        Washington
                    , D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1983. Pp. vii, 220. Illustrations, table, notes,
                    select bibliography of primary sources, index. $17.50.)
            For most Americans the word stagecoach evokes images of Wells Fargo and John Wayne
                    riding shotgun in the Far West. Stagecoach East reminds readers that there was an
                    earlier and equally important period, in which the American stagecoach lines played a vital role in
                    linking the East together economically, socially, and culturally. Relying mainly on newspapers,
                    travel journals, diaries, and government records, the authors trace the development of
                    "staging" from the early eighteenth century through its golden decades,
                    1820–1840, to its decline in the East in the two decades before the Civil War. The work
                    is a scholarly attempt to fill a major gap in the history of American transportation.
            
               Stagecoach East endeavors to cover every important aspect of staging in the East
                    from the stagecoach builders and drivers to the types of taverns along the routes. Among the most
                    interesting chapters are those dealing with the ties between the federal postal system, newspapers,
                    and the stagecoach lines. Until the advent of the railroads, the stagecoach was the principal
                    carrier of 
                        United States
                     mail and newspapers. The postmaster general, through his power to grant federal
                    contracts, played a major role in scheduling routes and thus exercised a degree of regulatory power.
                    Moreover, by requiring the lines to carry the newspapers at the lowest rates, the government could
                    promote the Jeffersonian ideal of a literate informed public. On the other hand, travelers and
                    commercial interests helped to subsidize the newspapers by paying higher rates. Indeed, the fourth
                    estate enjoyed certain advantages.
            Despite its originality and thorough research, Stagecoach East is not without some
                    defects. Since staging required a fairly well-developed network of roads, the authors rightly
                    concentrate on the Northeast and Southeast. However, seven pages cannot do justice to the importance
                    of staging in the Old Northwest. Also, a work that describes in detail the various trunk and branch
                    lines throughout the East should assist the reader by including more  than one map, especially when that one is a barely discernable copy of
                    an 1804 print. Anyone interested in the history of American canals will be surprised to find no
                    mention of this mode of transportation, even though canal packets were competitors of the stagecoach
                    lines before the railroads came into existence. The authors offer no solid statistical evidence that
                    the stages carried more passengers and freight than the nation's waterways or even its
                    roads. Finally, there are a few obvious errors. For example, one learns that hostilities in the
                    American Revolution did not begin until 1776!
            Nevertheless, Stagecoach East merits the serious attention of anyone interested in
                    studying a neglected and significant aspect in the history of American transportation.
            
               Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind. Charles Poinsatte
         
         
            
               Chants Democratic: 
                            New York City
                         & the Rise of the American Working Class, 1788–1850. By
                    Sean Wilentz. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1984. Pp. xii, 446. Illustrations, notes, appendix, tables, figures,
                    maps, bibliographical essay, index. $34.95.)
            This is a daring book. It addresses major issues in social theory. It ventures into many different
                    subfields of American history: politics, urban life, labor, religion, economics, intellectual life,
                    and reform movements. It is a tour de force in the varieties of evidence that it considers and
                    methods it uses to analyze and interpret them. It makes skillful use of twenty-two illustrations,
                    and its accounts of parades and festivities are both dramatic and insightful. Chants
                        Democratic is also beautifully composed, with its title drawn from Walt Whitman, with
                    passages from Whitman's poetry introducing each section, and with a conclusion explaining
                    the poet's description of 
                        New York
                     as "the most radical city in America." The book is a welcome
                    exception to the complaint that too many historical works, especially revised dissertations, are
                    cautious and overspecialized.
            Sean Wilentz has constructed an impressive account of the changing conditions of work and changing
                    purposes of working-men's—and sometimes
                    workingwomen's—organizations in 
                        New York
                    . The scope is so wide and the argument so carefully fashioned that a brief review can
                    recognize only a few important features of the work. Among the most significant is the delineation
                    of a process of "metropolitan industrialization" undermining the
                    "republican" virtues that artisans, in the enthusiasm of the Revolution, had
                    learned to associate with their trades. Wilentz does  not
                    oversimplify this process; he stresses that it created a "labyrinth of factories and tiny
                    artisan establishments, central workrooms and outworkers' cellars, luxury firms and
                    sweatwork strapping shops," and he takes pains to follow all the chambers and corridors of
                    this "maze." If Wilentz admires radicals protesting the degradation that the wage
                    relation imposed on workers' lives, he also offers fair-minded accounts of street
                    preachers, temperance reformers, and other urban types. Many pages are devoted to increasingly
                    confident proponents of competition and uplifi, such as one who proclaimed in 1837: "In our
                    bounteous land individuals alone are poor; but they form no poor class, because with them poverty is
                    but a transient evil."
            Although Wilentz is properly critical of others who have used the term class
                        consciousness without historical sensitivity, his own use of the term to describe the
                    attitudes of 
                        New York
                    's workingmen in the 1850s is not entirely convincing. Sometimes the
                    documentation for strikes and violent confrontations seems too sketchy to warrant generalizations
                    about workers as a class. Toward the end of the book Wilentz lumps together "the
                    city's workers and labor radicals" in a manner inconsistent with his previous
                    demonstrations of the confusing, labyrinthine process that was transforming 
                        New York
                    . Nevertheless, he convincingly recaptures a radical republican outlook at odds with
                    Jacksonian political parties and Whig benevolence. In so doing, he offers exciting challenges to
                    much of the conventional wisdom about antebellum society and politics.
            
               Vanderbilt University, 
                            Nashville
                        , Tenn. Lewis Perry
         
         
            
               The Public Lands in Jacksonian Politics. By Daniel Feller. (
                        Madison
                    : University of Wisconsin Press, 1984. Pp. xvi, 264. Tables, notes, note on sources,
                    bibliography, index. $29.50.)
            Daniel Feller sets out three objectives for this study: to examine the origins and evolution of the
                    controversy over federal land policy during the Jacksonian era; to relate that controversy to other
                    issues; and to demonstrate how it contributed to political alignments and the emergence of the
                    second party system. After reviewing the background of land policy to 1821, Feller gives a detailed
                    account of congressional debates on a wide variety of measures for disposing of the federal domain.
                    The debates centered on such questions as the minimum unit and minimum price for land offered for
                    sale by the government, federal credit for land purchases, preemption rights, graduated price
                    reductions on unsold land, and cession of federal lands to states. They pitted those who saw public
                    lands as property of the people, believed that  landownership
                    was a right, and favored rapid alienation of land at low prices against those who saw public lands
                    as a capital fund for financing federal projects, believed that landownership was something one
                    earned, and favored controlled disposition of land at market prices. Although legal and moral
                    principles, for the most part, comprised the argument on each side of the controversy, they were
                    only a thin veneer overlaying motives of self-interest; agricultural spokesmen pushed for a liberal
                    land policy, commercial and manufacturing spokesmen for a more restricted one. Neither side won, but
                    Congress's progressive reduction in the minimum purchase unit, maintenance of a low minimum
                    price, numerous land grants to states, acceptance of preemption rights, and eventual adoption of
                    graduation testify that agrarian interests and their allies got the better of the contest.
            If the catalog of questions included in the controversy tended to blur congressional alignments, so
                    too did the relationship between land policy and other issues. Since income from federal land sales
                    might render the tariff redundant, might subsidize education and internal improvements, or might be
                    distributed among the states, land policy became linked with these issues, often producing unnatural
                    congressional coalitions and strained legislative logic. Generally, though, throughout the 1820s
                    sectional identification defined the division and informed the rhetoric over land policy, with East
                    cast against West. But presidential elections in 1828 and 1832, the removal of the tariff from
                    political contention with the Compromise of 1833, and the fight over the Second Bank of the 
                        United States
                     weakened geographical cohesion and paved the way for the formation of national parties
                    in the 1830s. From then on, land policy was a party rather than a sectional matter, as Democrats
                    championed cheap lands and easy acquisition, and Whigs insisted on using the federal domain as an
                    endowment for social and economic betterment.
            Feller deftly charts the complex course of federal land policy from 1821 to 1837, explaining clearly,
                    if not always succinctly, congressional deliberations and actions. Moreover, he carefully examines
                    the joining of land policy to related issues, analyzing better than other historians how the tariff,
                    internal improvements, and fiscal policy influenced congressional views on the management of the
                    federal domain. He is less successful, however, in showing how land policy figured in the rise of
                    political parties. Simply to demonstrate that land policy changed from a sectional issue in the
                    1820s to a partisan issue in the 1830s is not enough to sustain the argument that it was
                    instrumental in shaping party ideologies and programs, or that it was a factor in determining party
                    constituencies. On that subject, the ethno-cultural thesis remains more convincing.
            
               Vanderbilt University, 
                            Nashville
                        , Tenn. Donald L. Winters
         
         
         
            
               Metropolitan Corridor: Railroads and the American Scene. By John R. Stilgoe. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1983. Pp. xiii, 397. Illustrations, figure, maps, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            It is often said that railroads and the railroad industry were the chief agents of technical and
                    social change in nineteenth- and early twentieth-century America. Yet, few of the many books devoted
                    to railroads venture far beyond the local right-of-way or the corporate boardroom; railroad
                    literature is too often a myopic enterprise that deprives its subject of its broader significance.
            
               Metropolitan Corridor is the antithesis of such literature. It provides a broad
                    overview of the impact of railroads on American society from 1880 to 1930. John Stilgoe's
                    focus is on all sides of the track as he attempts to show how the railroad shaped American concepts
                    of travel and luxury, and how the technology born of the industry was the preeminent force in
                    engineering and planning for more than half a century. Though the impact of the industry was broad,
                    Stilgoe shows that it was gathered in force in the corridors that formed along the rail lines
                    linking major American cities. These were avenues of civilization and progress, dominated by the
                    machines that traversed them, governed by the electricity that provided power and manipulated
                    communications, and peopled by a variety of actors ranging from the hobo to the construction
                    engineer. Settlements apart from the corridor languished, while those situated along it, or linked
                    to it by branch lines or interurbans received their food, news, and ideas almost solely from it.
            Stilgoe ranges widely in his discussion of the corridor, considering such areas as electrical
                    generation, factory design, track-side beautification, interurban railroads, popular literature,
                    cinema, and trackside subcultures. His style is lucid and makes for enjoyable reading. His use of
                    quotations from popular fiction adds much to the literary quality of the work, while also advancing
                    his thesis, which is well argued in most areas of the book. It is only when Stilgoe leaves the
                    corridor for the final two chapters that the work begins to weaken. These deal with the slow decline
                    of New 
                        England
                     hill towns not linked to the corridor and the decline of the railroad industry itself
                    in the 1930s. While the chapter on the hill towns is well-written and informative, both still appear
                    as a hasty and awkward coda to the book—perhaps because both subjects deserve studies
                    unto themselves.
            This is, however, a minor problem in a volume that deserves the attention of academic and amateur
                    alike (it should be required reading for the rail buff with single track vision). Indianans who  remember the busy times along the 
                        New York
                     Central and Pennsylvania Railroad lines that cut across the state will nod in agreement
                    with much of this volume and in it will find an explanation for events and institutions that were a
                    familiar part of everyday life only decades ago.
            
               Western Reserve Historical Society 
                     Cleveland, Ohio
                  
                John
                    J. Grabowski
         
         
            
               Lee and Grant: A Dual Biography. By Gene Smith. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1984. Pp. xiv, 412. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $17.95.)
            A dual biography of Robert E. Lee and Ulysses S. Grant is an exceptionally good idea. Very different
                    in background, style, and personality, they became the principal military antagonists of the Civil
                    War. As the author of this book suggests, in many ways each was typical of his cause: the
                    aristocratic and anachronistic Old South, a strange mixture of gentility and brutality, versus the
                    industrializing, rough-and-ready, egalitarian North. Admirably organized around the counterpoint
                    suggested by its protagonists, the book traces their origins and careers. The author plays no
                    favorites; an effort is made to characterize both men fully. A prolific and successful trade writer,
                    Gene Smith writes very well. Granting all of these positive points, the book is significantly
                    flawed.
            In the first place, Smith relies entirely on secondary sources. Regardless of the general
                    acceptability of this method, it appears that Smith has consulted them indiscriminately. (His
                    imprecise method of footnoting adds to readers' doubts.) Thus, he has overlooked well-known
                    authoritative historians (Bruce Catton and K. P. Williams, for example) and turned instead to such
                    doubtful sources as W. E. Woodward and Sylvanus Cadwallader. The truth is that Smith is far from
                    home in dealing with the military history of the Civil War. He has grabbed whatever was handy to
                    advance his manuscript and apparently had neither the knowledge nor the time to evaluate his
                    sources.
            The author's research base shows up in a number of ways. For example, he accepts
                    Cadwallader's account of Grant's binge during the 
                        Vicksburg
                     campaign. Smith is presumably unaware of K. P. Williams's persuasive
                    destruction of this story. He characterizes other Civil War personalities with dubious stereotypes.
                    His treatment of General Henry Halleck, for example, shows that he has made no inquiry into the very
                    complicated role of that very complex man.
            
            Numerous outright errors about the war also appear, of which the following are simply examples: it is
                    not accurate to say that Fort Donelson is "11 miles downstream from Fort Henry"
                    (p. 113); Grant had not "committed his last reserves" on the first day at 
                        Shiloh
                     (p. 121); it is not true that "almost as one man the right wing of
                    Hooker's army turned and ran" at Stonewall 
                        Jackson
                    's attack on the Eleventh Corps on May 2, 1863, at Chancellorsville (p. 160);
                    Hooker did not "turn and run for it" on the morning after 
                        Jackson
                    's stroke at Chancellorsville (p. 161)—there was fighting on May 3,
                    4, and 5, and the retreat took place on May 6; James Longstreet was not "
                        Jackson
                    's replacement" in any meaningful sense (p. 164); to state that Grant
                    expected no great results from Benjamin F. Butler's 1864 campaign below 
                        Richmond
                     (p. 188) is simply wrong; the "entire course of the war" did not
                    devolve on the two forces opposed in the final Virginia campaign (p. 211), and the statement
                    reflects and promotes a misunderstanding of the war; Lee did not "have to" invade
                    Pennsylvania in 1863 (p. 163) and to say that he did moots a question that a biographer should
                    address.
            Each of the men was an enigma, and each is ultimately a tragic figure. Lee opposed slavery and
                    secession; he was one of the few who foresaw the horrors of the war and its ultimate outcome.
                    Somehow he converted his position of not opposing Virginia into the role of the
                    slaving Confederacy's aggressive and bloody point man. He could write during the war that
                    "the warmest instincts of every man's soul declare the glory of the
                    soldier's death." In the name of his own honor, he clung to the war long beyond
                    his own awareness of any practical possibility of success, although every day intensified the agony
                    of his beloved Virginia and all the people, North and South. These undisputed facts make Lee a
                    tragic hero. They also suggest his unique and anomalous place in American history. Other historical
                    figures are evaluated with reference to the ultimate morality of their acts, but history is
                    curiously neutral where Lee is concerned. Universally credited with purity of motive, he is somehow
                    therefore absolved of the destructive and inhumane consequences of that motive. Grant has surely not
                    enjoyed Lee's immunity from history's inquiries and judgments, but his tragedy
                    appears in the aftermath of 
                        Appomattox
                     when he exhibited his moral obtuseness in regard to postwar gifts from wealthy friends;
                    his perception of the presidency as a "sinecure," a gift from the people because
                    of his wartime service; and his role in "Grantism," the awful corruption of
                    American politics during the Gilded Age.
            In short, there is much to say about Grant and Lee, but, in view of its defects, this book poses the
                    classic question: is there  validity to this kind of popular
                    history? On the one hand, such works may be the general reader's only source of history. On
                    the other hand, the commercial imperatives seem to require broad brush oversimplification,
                    exaggerated and categorical characterization when the truth is highly uncertain, and the publishing
                    of outright error—so that what the general reader gets is erroneous or distorted
                    information.
            The best seller lists notwithstanding, people who take their history seriously have cause to be
                    disappointed with this book.
            
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind. Alan T. Nolan
         
         
            
               The Papers of Ulysses S. Grant. Volume 11, June 1-August 15,
                    1864; Volume 12, August 16-November 15, 1864. Edited by John Y. Simon.
                    (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press, 1984. Pp. xxvi, xxv, 497, 520. Illustrations,
                    notes, maps, indexes. $45.00 per volume.)
            The man who wrote the correspondence in these two volumes was described in 1864 as ordinary,
                    scrubby-looking, with a slightly seedy look. This description does not fit the image of a successful
                    military leader. In Ulysses S. Grant's case, appearances were deceiving. Grant was an
                    outstanding military leader and the greatest American military strategist of the nineteenth century.
                    Grant understood modern warfare as it developed in the Civil War. No longer could victory be
                    obtained by checkmating the enemy army or capturing enemy cities. The opposing army had to be
                    destroyed, and the will of the enemy populace subdued. These harsh goals could be achieved only by
                    bringing all resources to bear on the enemy. Of all the major participants in the Civil War, only
                    Grant, William T. Sherman, and Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     understood these concepts.
            These two volumes document the period from June 1, 1864, to November 15, 1864. On June 1, 1864, Grant
                    was at Cold Harbor, a battle which he regretted because of heavy Union casualties. These casualties
                    so distressed Grant that on June 5, 1864, he wrote Robert E. Lee proposing that both sides send
                    unarmed men between the skirmish lines to tend the wounded whenever the battle ceased. The, North
                    had superiority of men and materiel over Lee's Confederates. Since Lee could not replace
                    men and materiel as fast as the North, such battles wore down the Confederacy's strength.
            Grant's humor shows through in a letter to his wife, Julia, dated July 18, 1864, where he
                    remarks that General William S. Rosecrans "never obeyed an order in his life that I have
                    yet heard of." In addition, many letters to his wife illustrate Grant's great  love and longing for his family. The multitude of orders to his
                    generals and letters to President 
                        Lincoln
                     indicate the efficient operation of his command system as well as his complete grasp of
                    the strategy and tactics needed to defeat the Confederacy. Grant's real concern for the
                    wounded and prisoners of both sides is exhibited in his correspondence with Lee.
            Both volumes are handsomely produced. The annotations are sufficient to place the correspondence in
                    context. A helpful chronology has been included at the beginning of each volume as well as a
                    calendar at the end. The Grant correspondence—much of it printed for the first
                    time—makes fascinating reading and portrays the likeable, human side of a great military
                    leader.
            
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind. John A. Houff
         
         
            
               But There Was No Peace: The Role of Violence in the Politics of Reconstruction.
                    By George C. Rable. (
                        Athens
                    : University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1984. Pp. xiii, 257. Notes, bibliographic essay, index. Clothbound,
                    $23.50; paperbound, $10.00.)
            In this book, Professor George C. Rable of Indiana's Anderson College offers the most
                    complete study to date of violence in the post-Civil War South. Informed by social-scientific
                    studies of violence and historical studies of the general course of revolutions, Rable enlarges the
                    context in which he assesses the phenomenon. Feeling powerless to control their fate after 
                        Appomattox
                    , southerners experienced the sort of concentrated and prolonged frustration that social
                    scientists say produces aggression in humans, Rable writes. "Conditions that a
                    twentieth-century psychologist might describe as a combination of alienation and anomie resulted in
                    anger among the region's traditional leaders" (p. 9).
            Rable generally organizes his study chronologically, describing the early race riots of 1866 in 
                        Memphis
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                    , and moving to the relatively unfocused violence of 1868 to 1870, the activities of the
                    Ku Klux Klan, and finally to the southern Democrats' adoption of violence as a calculated
                    strategy to regain political power. However, Rable's decision to provide a full description
                    of violence in every southern state compels him to violate his chronology in order to limn
                    developments in particular states. This tends to obfuscate his most important points—the
                    way violence in one area led to violence in another and the development over time of a conscious
                    strategy of violence.
            Rable offers a number of informative insights. His comparison of the 
                        Memphis
                     riot to the antiblack riots of 1919–1920 in the North is innovative and
                    persuasive (although his comparison of them to the black riots in Watts, 
                        Detroit
                    , and 
                        Newark
                     in the  late 1960s is not). His consistent
                    attention to the social science literature is similarly informing. Of great significance is
                    Rable's conclusion that the violence associated with the elections of 1874 in the South
                    amounted to a testing of the effectiveness of violence as a political strategy. The failure of
                    southern Republicans and the national government to counteract it convinced white southerners to
                    employ violence systematically in the 1875 and 1876 campaigns that overthrew Republican governments
                    in 
                  Mississippi, Florida, South Carolina
               , and 
                        Louisiana
                    . Finally, Rable notes the implications of his study for historians' arguments
                    about the radicalism of Reconstruction. Refuting those historians who stress the conservatism of
                    Republican Reconstruction policy, Rable points out that it was its radicalism that led to a white
                    counterrevolution. He joins Herman Belz in dismissing the possibility of any further radical effort
                    in the face of such widespread and bitter white southern resistance.
            Altogether Rable has made a significant contribution to the historical understanding of
                    Reconstruction. Written primarily for scholars, but accessible to a more general intellectual
                    audience, the book is an important resource for those with a serious, scholarly interest in the
                    problems of post-Civil War America.
            
               The Ohio State University, 
                            Columbus
                        
                Michael Les Benedict
         
         
            
               Southern Progressivism: The Reconciliation of Programs and Tradition. By Dewey
                    W. Grantham. (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of Tennessee Press, 1983. pp. xxii, 468. Notes, tables, maps,
                    illustrations, bibliographical essay, index. Clothbound, $34.95; paperbound,
                    $16.95.)
            In 1946 Arthur S. Link published an article, "The Progressive Movement in the
                    South," which challenged the vague northeastern orthodoxy that southerners had not actually
                    participated in the Progressive Era. Since that time Link has been joined by numerous other scholars
                    urging this "revisionist" perspective on the early twentieth-century South, and
                    one of the most influential of these is Dewey W. Grantham. In Southern
                    Progressivism, Grantham delivers an encyclopedic treatment of the subject—a product
                    of some twenty-five years of inquiry. The reader emerges from the work not only convinced, once and
                    for all, that there was indeed a Progressive Era in the South but that it had some of the
                    overarching characteristics of a movement.
            Grantham perceives southern progressivism as in many ways an extension of the New South creed. One of
                    the chief characteristics of the New South mind of the late nineteenth century was  its determination to embrace modernity without rejecting that
                    "vital nexus" with traditional social values of the antebellum era. Likewise,
                    Grantham views progressive leaders of the South as constantly seeking some blend,
                    "balance" (p. 418), or "reconciliation" (p. 410) between
                    progress and tradition. As with New Southerners of the 1890s, many progressives had more than a
                    subconscious experience with this problem. Analytical and articulate, many southern reformers, for
                    example, sought to expand educational opportunities in ways that appealed to many segments of the
                    southern population yet did not transgress sacred social traditions. Ultimately, therefore,
                    progressivism in the South was conservative—much as it was nationwide. What probably made
                    it more conservative in Dixie than in other places, besides the noted factor of race, was the
                    southerners' historic stake in the notion of section. Defensive and aggressive about their
                    subculture, southern progressives sought reforms that would enhance their traditional sense of
                    sectional community and virtue while still advancing social progress and the cause of North-South
                    reconciliation. Less shackled by the past, progressives from other sections felt more at ease than
                    southerners in advancing reforms not in precise harmony with nineteenth-century values.
            On the other hand, Grantham's story of southern progressivism also emphasizes certain
                    commonalities with the national reform experience. He clarifies the stages of southern reform by
                    showing how progressivism changed from an initial process of revealing particular problems, e.g.
                    railroad abuses, to formulating institutionalized (usually governmental) solutions to these
                    problems. As on the national scene, southern reformers called on local and state offices first, then
                    turned to the national political and governmental arena. Akin to Robert Wiebe's
                    progressives "searching for order," many of these southern reformers also moved
                    from individualistic, moralistic solutions to collective, bureaucratic,
                    "scientific" initiatives (p. 227).
            Thus, Grantham gives the impression that progressivism in the South represented more than an era; it
                    had signs of being a movement. Despite its variegated interest groups and inner stresses, southern
                    progressivism had cohesiveness and momentum that prevailed to some degree even into the 1920s. The
                    understanding of this movement would perhaps be clearer if the author had kept the New South strain
                    in his plot line more visible. Yet Grantham's powerful display of
                    scholarship—history blending the inferential insights of the humanities with those of the
                    social sciences and written with flowing, often poetic sentences—stands as a major
                    contribution to the literature of American reform and of the South.
            
               University of 
                            Alabama
                        , Birmingham Tennant S. McWilliams
         
         
         
            
               Race and Kinship in a Midwestern Town: The Black Experience in 
                     Monroe, Michigan
                  ,
                        1900–1915. By James E. DeVries. (Ur-bana: University of Illinois Press, 1984.
                    Pp. xiii, 189. Notes, tables, maps, illustrations, appendix, index. $17.50.)
            This is an unusual history of urban blacks, because it deals with black history in a small midwestern
                    town (population 6,893 in 1910) and with a very small population of blacks (sixteen in 1910, or 0.22
                    percent). Between 1840 and 1920 the largest number of blacks enumerated was forty-four (in 1880).
                    The author, professor of history at 
                        Monroe County
                     Community College, is especially interested in exploring the nature of the black
                    identity in an overwhelmingly white milieu, and, despite the size of black 
                        Monroe
                    , argues that the experience was typical. "
                        Monroe
                    's values, behavioral norms, and cultural understandings were national in
                    nature.... [T]he black experience in Monroe provides a lens through which a national theme, racism,
                    can be clearly viewed"(p. xii). "Monroe was not an atypical situation in the
                    American black experience in the Midwest" (p. 154).
            The author seeks to re-create the black kinship networks that he contends were the means whereby
                    blacks, lacking numbers and therefore such devices as churches and clubs, coped with racism. Cast as
                    either childlike or brutal, they were unable to fit naturally into the life of even the small
                    communities. "The basic normative and cognitive framework which Monroe whites brought to
                    interactive contexts was racist, and the ego needs of any Afro-American could not possibly have been
                    met within the context of the larger community" (p. 135). Despite some evidence of
                    mobility, the "pervasiveness of racism" robbed Monroe blacks "of their
                    cultural and, as time passed, familial base" (p.154).
            Despite extensive research in primary materials and some interesting efforts at family
                    reconstitution, this work leaves the reader unsatisfied. Why the author chose the years
                    1900–1915 is unclear. He argues that this period represents the earliest time
                    "for which the memories of its living citizens were still accessible" (p. xi).
                    Much of the work, however, treats the nineteenth century, and, given the population increase after
                    the 1920s, one would think that a more extensive study of this small group of blacks in a small town
                    would have been possible and fruitful. This is one of the reasons that the argument for typicality
                    is hollow—not that there is no need to explore black history in such places, but that the
                    small population would make more comprehensive efforts possible. How different, for instance, was
                    the black experience after 1930? Another reason is that, despite the presence of racism, blacks in
                    this part of the Midwest were, for example, far less 
                    constrained than blacks in the Ohio Valley. Black and white baseball teams competed in the town in
                    1911; the shooting of a white sheriff by a black in 1910 did not lead to an outbreak of violence
                    against blacks; Monroe blacks belonged to white churches and attained a fairly high occupational
                    level in the community. Certainly the factor of racism united Monroe blacks with others in the
                    region, but the manner in which that racism was expressed, especially given the integrationist
                    tradition in the northern Midwest, did not. The absence of comparisons with other small black
                    communities and the size of 
                        Monroe
                    's black populace also undercut the argument for typicality.
            Until the last page, the author does not raise a fundamental question—why did a black
                    community fail to take root here. His answer is that "the presence of an adequate
                    population was missing.... A black community would begin to take form in the 1930s..." (p.
                    154). Combined with the typicality argument, this conclusion significantly weakens the efforts of
                    the author. What we are left with is a disappointing book.
            
               Indiana State University-
                            Evansville
                        
                Darrel E. Bigham
         
         
            
               The New Deal and the West. By Richard Lowitt. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1984. Pp. xviii, 283. Illustrations, map, notes,
                    bibliographical note, index. $25.00.)
            In a paper delivered at the 1963 meeting of the American Historical Association, Professor Joe B.
                    Frantz of the University of Texas asserted: "The truth is that the federal government is
                    the major stockholder and underwriter of the American West and that most of those portions of the
                    West which hum with economic excitement are constantly being replenished with federal
                    funds." Richard Lowitt's study of the New Deal in the West amply confirms
                    Frantz's statement for the years from 1932 to 1940. Two federal departments, Agriculture
                    and Interior, headed by Henry Wallace and Harold Ickes, largely determined the West's
                    destiny. The author quotes extensively from Lorena Hickok's reports to Harry Hopkins, the
                    Federal Relief Administrator, to delineate in human terms the economic collapse in the region as the
                    New Deal was beginning.
            The Department of Agriculture attempted to translate into reality President F#2 D.
                    Roosevelt's view that there were "Acres Fit and Unfit" for agriculture on
                    the drought-stricken Great Plains by retiring crop lands and increasing pasturage. Unfortunately,
                    the New Deal's response to the problems afflicting the area was fragmented. Although soil
                    conservation work of great significance was accomplished, "a consistent, concerted,
                    cooperative  effort was not to be" (p. 55). With the
                    return of adequate rainfall and the onset of war in Europe, the government's emphasis
                    shifted to expanding production.
            The land between the Rocky Mountains and the Sierra 
                        Nevada
                     range, the Great Basin, was the territory primarily of the Department of the Interior.
                    Ickes and his allies viewed the Inland Empire largely in terms of expanding horizons, chiefly
                    through the development of water facilities, especially hydroelectric power. The Bonneville and
                    Grand Coulee dams along the 
                        Columbia
                     River were designed to achieve the promised land for the people of the Pacific
                    Northwest. The Indian New Deal, with the goals of economic sufficiency, cultural freedom, and civic
                    responsibility, was a "mixed success" (p. 132), although Lowitt's overall
                    assessment is positive.
            The one serious blow to the New Deal's conservation ethic in the West occurred in mineral
                    policy. Roosevelt needed the support of congressmen from the oil and silver producing states, so
                    production policies prevailed. In California the New Deal got a late start, and, embedded in
                    controversy, enjoyed few successes.
            Lowitt's richly documented and illuminating book should be required reading for western
                    conservatives who pride themselves on their free, anti-big government spirit, serving to remind them
                    that from start to finish the West has been subsidized by Uncle Sam.
            
               University of 
                            Texas
                        , Austin N#2 D. Brown
         
         
            
               Without Precedent: The Life and Career of Eleanor Roosevelt. Edited by Joan
                    Hoff–Wilson and Marjorie Lightman. (Bloom-ington: Indiana University Press, 1984. Pp.
                    xix, 266. Illustrations, notes, sources, index. $17.50.)
            Designed to celebrate the centennial of Eleanor Roosevelt's birth in 1884, this volume is
                    part of a series on women's contributions to the human enterprise. These essays by a number
                    of able scholars and writers are full of praise and sympathy for their subject, yet these qualities
                    are amply balanced by critical detachment. It is a book of distinction, a "good
                    read," and worth the price for readers of many backgrounds. In four sections, the authors
                    describe Roosevelt's political education, what is called her "politics of
                    conscience," her political friendships, and the paradoxes that emerge from a study of her
                    political activities. Without Precedent is overwhelmingly a guide to
                    Roosevelt's political career, a vocation focused on working for individual equal
                    opportunity and on setting a personal example of response to moral issues.
            
            Without being the wife of F#2 D. Roosevelt, would Eleanor Roosevelt have had an impact on American
                    politics? Most of the essayists agree with William H. Chafe that Eleanor Roosevelt sought personal
                    political influence "in place of, rather than because of an intimate personal relationship
                    with 
                        Franklin
                    " (p. 11). Lois Scharf writes that "the pace of her life happily
                    coincided with many of [FDRs] needs, but the prime motivation was the personal need to build an
                    emotional life and create physical space of her own" (p. 250). After the bitter sadness of
                    discovering 
                        Franklin
                    's affair with Lucy Mercer, she began seeking autonomy in 1920, before 
                        Franklin
                    's crippling bout with poliomyelitis. Thus, Eleanor had political interests and
                    activities apart from her role as 
                        Franklin
                    's wife. During the 1920s, she developed networks of friends, gained experience
                    of leadership as a lobbyist and organizer, and worked hard in local and state politics.
            When 
                        Franklin
                     was elected governor, she began to develop a new, less visible style that became her
                    trademark during the years of FDRs presidency. Sponsoring fact-finding tours, assisting in the
                    securing of choice administrative posts for women, and linking herself with other capable women,
                    such as Democratic campaign planner Molly Dewson, Eleanor honed the skills that made her an
                    unprecedented First Lady in the White House. While Susan Ware describes Eleanor's
                    participation in Democratic party politics, Martha Swain and Ingrid Scobie discuss her relationship
                    with the talented New Deal administrator Ellen Woodward and explore Eleanor's promotion of
                    the congressional aspirations of Helen Gahagan Douglas. Other writers—Winifred Wandersee,
                    Joanna and Robert Zangrando, and Blanche Wiesen Cook—comment on her stance regarding
                    American youth, Afro-American civil rights, and foreign affairs, respectively. Richard Kirkendall
                    suggests that the decline of her influence was partly responsible for the substitution of Harry
                    Truman for Henry Wallace as vice-presidential candidate in 1944. The potential role as powerful
                    politician inhered in the role as wife of FDR, but Eleanor's exploitation of the
                    possibility was due to her own chemistry.
            Was Eleanor Roosevelt a feminist? Lois Scharf s excellent essay answers with a "qualified
                    no." Eleanor was definitely a "reformer," however. When she and
                    "the sisterhood in the administration" had a choice "between passage and
                    implementation of social welfare programs on the one hand, and specific attention to the position
                    and treatment of women within them on the other," they chose the former. Certainly, Eleanor
                    Roosevelt's career illustrates the limits of courageous individualism and of unique moral
                    example as promoters of social justice. Yet, the editors offer a reminder that "we might
                    well envy a time when women activists  actually believed most
                    foreign and domestic problems could be solved by well-intentioned individuals acting for the common
                    good"(p. xix). Movements are made of people who think that the individual matters.
            
               Saint Vincent College, Latrobe, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        
                Ellen Nore
         
         
            
               Museum Masters: Their Museums and Their Influence. By Edward P. Alexander. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1983. Pp. x, 428. Notes, select
                    bibliography, illustrations, index. $22.95.)
            Museums were not always the public institutions they are today. It was only in the past two hundred
                    years that they evolved from closed private collections into open and accessible facilities.
            
               Museum Masters treats twelve men and women styled by Edward P. Alexander as
                    imaginative museum leaders, the men and women who created the modern museum. The twelve represent
                    Europe, Great Britain, Scandinavia, and the 
                        United States
                    . These are people "who gave thought to the purposes of museums and took the
                    institutions with which they were connected in new directions that have significance today"
                    (p. 4).
            They are a varied and fascinating lot, as befits museum directors with strong personalities. Some,
                    like Charles Willson Peale, worked for a popular museum. He was "the first great American
                    museum director, warm, personable, and outgoing; creative and driving" (p. 48). A showman,
                    like so many of the great directors, Peale had ideas for exhibit openings that would attract
                    attention today. The opening of his Mammoth Room was publicized by the museum handyman dressed like
                    an Indian riding a white horse, and preceded by a trumpeter. Here is ample precedent for new job
                    descriptions for museum employees!
            Dominque Vivant Denon sought to make the Louvre the symbol of national glory. Alexander relates that
                    he labored during the day and "No one pursued social and erotic pleasures more ardently
                    than he at night, in salon, cafe and boudoir" (p. 85). No doubt he simply sought further
                    recognition and appreciation of the museum! Denon also understood a director's role in
                    drawing to his staff experts to advise him on particular subject areas.
            George 
                        Brown
                     Goode, an Indiana product, devoted his efforts to the Smithsonian Museum, deserving in
                    Alexander's opinion "to be known as the father of the modern American
                    museum" (p. 305). One of his thoughts that is pertinent today is often ignored:
                    "The degree of civilization to which any nation, city or province has attained is best
                    shown by the character of its public museums  and the liberality
                    with which they are maintained" (p. 299). How many museum directors would like to have this
                    thought carved on their museum portals?
            Here are creators of moated zoos (Carl Hagenbeck), open-air museums (Arthur Hazelius), historic house
                    museums (Ann Pamela Cunningham), botanical gardens (William 
                        Jackson
                     Hooker), science and technology (Oskar van Miller), community service (John Cotton
                    Davis), the British Museum (Sir Hans Sloane), and the decorative arts (Henry Cole). In their diverse
                    personalities may be found the roots of virtually all museum trends today.
            The book affords a clear view of the importance of personality to museums, and of the need for
                    creative thinking, unfettered by convention. These men and women stand as examples of the importance
                    of sudden change, not just gradual evolution, in museum work. They are also a reminder that there is
                    much truth in the saying that all is old wine in new bottles, for the ideas they espoused are ideas
                    that are very current. Alexander's is a well-written book, which for the reader not
                    familiar with museum history will open avenues to its fascinating development. For those in the
                    profession, perhaps John Cotton Davis's words ring truest of all, "I've
                    had a lot of fun.... A whole lot of fun.... I am going ahead as fast as money permits..."
                    (p. 399). It is a book well worth reading.
            
               Indiana State Museum, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Lee Scott Theisen
         
         
            
               Oral History: An Interdisciplinary Anthology. Edited by David K. Dunaway and
                    Willa K. Baum. (
                        Nashville
                    , Tenn.: American Association for State and Local History, 1984. Pp. xvii, 436. Figures,
                    table, notes, bibliographies, index. Clothbound, $29.50; paperbound, $17.95.)
            After thirty-five years of active practice by historians, schoolchildren, and community groups, oral
                    history seems to have come of age. This anthology simultaneously represents and celebrates that
                    event. In the preface, the editors explain the book's genesis: "At one time the
                    greatest need [in oral history] was for basic procedural manuals for beginning
                    practitioners." That need having been more than adequately met at the present, they
                    continue, "our goal was the upgrading of the oral history process and end product"
                    by aiming the collection "at a broad spectrum of already initiated individuals"
                    (p. xv). To this end, they sifted through the now voluminous literature on oral history and selected
                    thirty-seven articles for inclusion here.
            Most of the major figures in the field are represented, from Allan Nevins, universally acclaimed as
                    the father of oral history  in the 
                        United States
                    ; to folklorist Richard Dorson, outspoken advocate of the relationship between folklore
                    and oral history; to schoolteacher Eliot Wigginton, creator of the Foxfire
                    project; and writer Alex Haley whose Roots spawned an enthusiasm for oral history
                    and genealogy among Americans at large. (Ronald Grele, Alice Kessler-Harris, and even pop
                    practitioner Studs Terkel are conspicuous omissions.)
            The selections are organized into six sections, with each section introduced by the editors and each
                    essay preceded by head-notes. The first five articles, in the section entitled "The Gateway
                    to Oral History," provide the reader with an overview of the development of oral
                    history—the history of oral history, as it were. Section II, "Interpreting and
                    Designing Oral History" (is this not putting things in reverse order?), comprises eleven
                    essays that address theoretical issues such as the reliability, significance, and ethics of oral
                    history, as well as the practicalities of organizing and carrying out an oral history project. The
                    third section, "Oral History Applied," includes general discussions of projects
                    among blacks and other ethnic groups, women, workers, and families. The relationships between oral
                    history and other disciplines that rely on oral historical data, such as folklore, anthropology, and
                    gerontology, are explored in six articles in Section IV. Sections V and VI deal respectively with
                    oral history in the schools and in libraries. An appendix presents the guidelines for setting up,
                    conducting, and evaluating oral history projects adopted by the Oral History Association in 1968.
            There are several strengths to the book, among them the recognition of the interdisciplinary uses of
                    the oral history method. The coverage of subjects, with a few glaring exceptions, is even and
                    presents a well-rounded and well-organized picture of the current state of oral history. Perhaps the
                    strongest point of the book, however, is the care with which the essays have been arranged. Both the
                    section introductions and the headnotes provide the reader with a thread to follow from one
                    selection to the next and from one division to the next, so that the book has a coherence usually
                    lacking in anthologies.
            Now for its limitations. The essays are overwhelmingly North American in their orientation, and thus
                    give no indication of the state of oral history elsewhere in the world. A second, and potentially
                    more serious, deficiency is that the book contains no consideration of the nature of the oral
                    history interview as a historical document. This critical issue is mentioned in passing in several
                    of the essays, but treated in depth in none. The editors themselves call attention to a third
                    limitation—there is no discussion of the legal aspects of oral history. A thorough and
                    definitive treatment  of the subject, they state, has yet to be
                    written. Finally, it is odd that the editors did not include a few case studies, demonstrating how
                    oral history actually works. Perhaps the essays in Section III were meant to serve this purpose, but
                    they are too broadly conceived to do so effectively.
            Despite these shortcomings, the book is a welcome addition to the oral historical
                    bookshelf—or, for that matter, to folkloristic, anthropological, or general historical
                    collections. The quality of the essays is consistently high, yet none is so bogged down in jargon or
                    technicalities as to be indecipherable to readers with little or no background in the subject. The
                    book, in fact, should serve as an excellent introduction to oral history for any reader,
                    "initiated" or not.
            
               University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Ind. Barbara Allen
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Medicine in Antebellum Indiana: Conflict, Conservatism, and Change. By Katherine
                    Mandusic McDonell. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1984. Pp. 58. Illustrations, notes, inventory of items in
                    exhibit. Paperbound, $3.00.) The best exhibit catalogues live long after the exhibit
                    itself is dispersed. The Indiana Historical Society's 1984 exhibit on medicine in
                    antebellum Indiana is no more, but Katherine Mandusic McDonell's catalogue will endure as a
                    succinct but insightful description and analysis of medicine in pioneer Indiana. McDonell builds on
                    the earlier work of Madge E. Pickard and R. Carlyle Buley, on more recent research in American
                    medical history, and on her own extensive work in primary sources. She presents in contexts of time
                    and place such subjects as fevers, cholera, smallpox, milk sickness, bloodletting and harsh drugs,
                    surgery without anesthesia, medical education, home remedies, and patent medicines. She effectively
                    demonstrates the conflict and conservatism that permeated Indiana medicine before the Civil War. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               The Birds of Indiana. By Russell E. Mumford and Charles E. Keller. Original
                    paintings by William Zimmerman. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1984. Pp. xviii, 376. Illustrations, chart, reference list,
                    index. $49.95.) The impressive physical appearance of this book first catches the reader.
                    William Zimmerman's original paintings beautifully depict 165 species of birds, along with
                    wildflowers and trees of their habitats. The color, detail, and skill of these paintings alone make
                    the book worth the price. But unlike coffeetable books there is also abundant written substance.
                    Russell E. Mumford and Charles E. Keller have prepared essays on each species that provide basic
                    information on past and present status in Indiana. These species accounts are written from the
                    expertise of much hard work and many obviously enjoyable years spent in the field and in contact
                    with other bird watchers. They are a delight to read. Historians will find particularly interesting
                    the many instances of changing bird populations as a consequence of human activity, from the
                    slaughter of passenger pigeons and Carolina parakeets in the nineteenth century to the introduction
                    of wild turkeys in the twentieth century. The Birds of Indiana is a remarkable
                    achievement by the authors, artist, publisher, printer, and the many sponsors who helped produce a
                    book of such high quality at so reasonable a price. James H. Madison, Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
            
               The Bears of Blue River. By Charles Major. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1984. Pp. vi, 277. Illustrations. Cloth-bound,
                    $15.00; paperbound, $6.95); The Hoosier School-Master: A
                    Novel. By Edward Eggleston. Introduction by B. Edward McClellan. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1984. Pp. 226. Illustrations. Clothbound, $15.00;
                    paperbound, $5.95); The Girl of the Limberlost. By Gene
                    Stratton-Porter. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1984. Pp. xiii, 479. Illustrations. Cloth-bound,
                    $17.50; paperbound, $8.95.) These are the first offerings in the Indiana
                    University Press's Library of Indiana Classics. All three novels were widely read in the
                    early twentieth century and ranked among the best of Indiana's golden age of literature.
                    Doubtless there are many adults today with vivid memories of Little Balser's fight with the
                    one-eared bear on Blue River; of Ralph Hartsooks struggles in the Flat Creek schoolhouse; of Elnora
                    Cornstock's moth hunting on the edge of Limberlost swamp. In reprinting these novels the
                    Indiana University Press offers its judgment that they are not worn-out classics but rather deserve
                    to be read by young Americans of the late twentieth century. It is a correct judgment. In the midst
                    of watching rock video and filling in the blanks of school workbooks, young Hoosiers can also be led
                    to these Indiana classics. There is even the possibility of reading these books aloud in the home
                    and in school. My unscientific experiment conducted on two nonrandomly chosen children proved the
                    case—to the pleasure of the children and the adult reader. James H. Madison,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Experiments and Observations on Aboriginal Wild Plant Food Utilization in Eastern North
                        America. Edited by Patrick J. Munson. Indiana Historical Society Prehistory
                        Research Series, Vol. VI, No. 2. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1984. Pp. 279–473. References cited, notes,
                    tables, figures. Paperbound, $8.00.) The nine essays in this volume report original
                    research on various kinds of wild seeds and nuts as used by prehistoric peoples in eastern North
                    America. The reports include information from direct observation and experimentation in harvesting
                    and preparing wild foods as well as from study of archaeological food remains. James H.
                        Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               By One and One. By Doreen Canaday Spitzer. (Canaan, N.H.: Phoenix Publishing, 1984.
                    Pp. xi, 307. Illustrations, genealogical chart. $20.00). This book chronicles the lives
                    of advertising executive Ward Canaday (1885–1976) and his wife, Mariam Canaday
                    (1883–1974). Ward Canaday was born and raised in 
                        New Castle
                    , Indiana. After graduating from 
                        Harvard
                    , he began his rise in business in the sales and advertising department of the  Hoosier Manufacturing Company of 
                        New Castle
                    . After eight years with Hoosier Manufacturing, Canaday moved to 
                  Toledo, Ohio
               ,
                    where he founded the 
                        United States
                     Advertising Corporation. Later, Canaday also served as president and board chairman of
                    Willys-Overland Motors, Inc. (makers of the World War II Jeep), as publicity director for the
                    Federal Housing Administration, and as a member of various government commissions under Harry S.
                    Truman, Dwight D. Eisenhower, and John F. Kennedy. Doreen Canaday Spitzer, the only child of the
                    couple, has based her book on a wide range of primary materials as well as her personal
                    recollections. However, the historian looking for a business biography of Canaday, or information on
                    the development of the advertising industry, or turn-of-the-century 
                        New Castle
                     will be disappointed because Spitzer focuses her book on the relationship between her
                    parents. Spitzer analyses her parents' marriage in great and intimate detail. While her
                    tone and analysis is objective, even detached, it is obvious that her book was designed primarily to
                    answer Spitzer's own, personal questions about her parents. Thomas E. Rodgers,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Indiana Stonecarver: The Story of Thomas R. Reding. Indiana Historical Society
                        Publications, Vol. XXVII, No. 1. By Ann Nolan and Keith A. Buckley. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1984. Pp. v, 106. Illustrations, map, bibliography.
                    Pap-erbound, $3.00.) This book is a detailed examination of the artistry of 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, stonecarver, Thomas R. Reding (1807–1852). Born in 
                        Randolph County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , Reding moved to 
                        Salem
                     in the mid-1820s. Reding worked as a cabinetmaker and as a saddler, but sometime in the
                    mid-1830s he began carving tombstones as a sideline. For more than a decade Reding carved sandstone,
                    limestone, and marble tombstones for graves in Lawrence, 
                        Orange
                    , and, especially, 
                        Jackson
                     and 
                        Washington
                     counties. Ann Nolan and Keith A. Buckley carefully describe and analyze
                    Reding's extant works showing the development of his abilities and artistry. An appendix to
                    the book contains directions for locating all of Reding's existing works. Thomas E. Rodgers, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
