
      ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 105, Issue 3, pages 201-303. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:105+issue:3+year:2009&browseMode=source
    
      ----FULL TEXT----
        
          
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
          

          
              
               
               
               
                    
                         
                              The cover of the 1959 first edition of The Urban Frontier. Richard Wade's
                              work marked a "clear and considerable break" from the still-dominant theories of Frederick
                              Jackson Turner.Courtesy Robert G. Barrows
                         
                    
                    EDITOR'S NOTE

                    
                    Fifty years ago, Richard C. Wade's The Urban Frontier: The Rise of Western Cities, 1790-1830 made
                         its first appearance in print. For students of the American West
                         (including, as Wade did, the trans- Appalachian West and upper 
                              Louisiana
                          ), the book marked a clear and sensible break from the great
                         late nineteenth-century historian Frederick Jackson Turner.
                         Turner's so-called "frontier thesis" had
                         convinced generations of readers of the signal importance of an American
                         frontier that evolved inevitably from wilderness to farmland to small towns
                         and finally great cities--an idealized sequence that already seemed to
                         some, by 1959, the relic of another time. In the intervening years,
                         historians had largely given up on the task of searching for the origins of
                         a singular American cultural character, and they had grown to expect
                         greater precision--in the research sources available to them and in the
                         kinds of conclusions that those sources might reasonably yield--than that
                         which had sufficed for Turner's generation.
                    Other things had changed, too, in the decades since Turner explained the
                         "Significance of the Frontier" to the historians gathered
                         at the World's Columbian Exposition in 
                              Chicago
                          in 1893. Like all Americans, historians of 1959 could see that
                         the 
                              United States
                          was an urban nation, a place whose population lived, for the
                         most part, in or around cities--and not just along the eastern seaboard.
                         Arthur M. Schlesinger Sr., himself a child of the Old Northwest, had
                         understood the implications of this change for the historical record a
                         generation earlier. His The Rise of the City,
                         1878-1898, which appeared in 1933, made a plausible claim for an
                         equally important urban strain of American behavior and ideals. Richard
                         Wade, like Schlesinger a midwesterner, 
                         studied with the renowned historian in the early 1950s; it was his dis-
                         sertation, written under Schlesinger's supervision, that soon
                         became The Urban Frontier.
                    For this issue of the IMH, we have solicited the work of
                         historians of four of the five cities profiled in Wade's
                         pathbreaking book-- 
                              Louisville
                          , 
                              Pittsburgh
                          , 
                              Cincinnati
                          , and 
                              St.
                                   Louis
                          --as well as of a fifth (
                              Indianapolis
                          ) not featured in the original book but relevant both to its
                         thesis and to the interests of IMH readers. We asked each author to revis-
                         it Wade's work in light of a half-century of new historical
                         research: What, among his original findings, still holds true and what
                         demands revision? How has our understanding of the histories of these sites
                         changed since Wade's book was published, and how much did his work
                         help to set that understanding in place? What questions remain for future
                         historians of this city, or of American urbanization more generally?
                    Reached by phone at his 
                              New
                                   York
                          apartment in 2008, Wade seemed happy to hear that his book
                         would serve as the subject of an IMH discussion. He
                         recalled with fondness his time spent working on Robert E
                         Kennedy's 1968 Indiana presidential primary campaign. And he prom-
                         ised to write a foreword to the issue, once the articles were complete. A
                         few months later, in July, he died at the age of 87. If his words do not
                         appear on this page as planned, they still resonate throughout the pages
                         that follow, as they do in any historical argument (and there have been
                         many in the last fifty years) premised on the now quite reasonable-
                         sounding proposition that "towns were the spearheads of the
                         frontier."
               

               

               

                    Was 
                              Pittsburgh
                         's Economic Destiny Set in 1815?
                    EDWARD K. MULLER

                    I first read The Urban Frontier as a
                         graduate student in historical geography many years ago. I naturally
                         focused on the geographical implications of Richard C. Wade's
                         thesis that towns emerged on the Ohio Valley frontier along with the
                         earliest pioneers, "held the West for the approaching
                         population," and accelerated its transformation to a settled
                              region.1 This critical insight into the settlement
                         process anchored my dissertation.2 His view that
                         "towns were the spearheads" and not the culmination of
                         the settlement process, overturned the conventional Turnerian
                         interpretation of frontier urbanization and spurred the work of many
                         subsequent scholars.3
                    At the time of my initial reading, I paid little attention to Wade's
                         comparative methodology and comprehensive topical coverage. Returning to
                              The Urban Frontier often in the ensuing years, I
                         gained an 
                              Edward K. Muller is Professor of History at the University of
                                   Pittsburgh. Among his recent publications is (with John E
                                   Bauman) Before Renaissance: Planning in 
                                             Pittsburgh
                                         , 1889-1943 (2006).
                              1Richard C. Wade, The Urban
                                        Frontier: The Rise of Western Cities, 1790-1830 ( 
                                        Cambridge
                                   , 
                                        Mass.
                                   , 1959), 342.
                              2Edward K. Muller, "The Development
                                   of Urban Settlement in a Newly Settled Region: The Middle
                                        Ohio
                                   Valley, 1800-1860," (PhD diss., University of Wisconsin, 
                                        Madison
                                    , 1972); Muller, "Selective Urban Growth in
                                   the Middle Ohio Valley, 1800-1860," Geographical Review, 66 (April 1976), 178-99; Muller,
                                   "Regional Urbanization and the Selective Growth of Towns
                                   in North American Regions," Journal of
                                        Historical Geography, 3 (January 1977), 21-39.
                              3Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                                   1.
                         
                          appreciation of his research, which
                         encompassed five cities and the examination of forty to fifty years of
                         local newspapers, municipal records, and other primary materials. As if
                         unraveling the economic and geographical roles of five cities were not
                         enough, Wade also wrote on everything from municipal governments'
                         structures and their evolving responsibilities to racial relations,
                         cultural activities, and emerging social configurations. He presented a
                         story of a rapidly developing and surprisingly sophisticated urban life on
                         the frontier despite the towns' small populations and relatively
                         brief existences. In this narrative, citizens ambitiously pursued the
                         myriad high-risk economic opportunities of these newly developing regions,
                         while (in another challenge to Turnerian interpretations) they
                         simultaneously emulated older eastern cities by bringing
                         "established institutions and ways" to their towns.4
                    Twenty years after Harvard University Press published The Urban
                              Frontier, I joined the Department of History at the University of
                         Pittsburgh and found myself faced with teaching a course on the
                         city's history. I discovered a wealth of writing on the struggle
                         between 
                              France
                          and 
                              Britain
                          in the mid-eighteenth century for control of the peninsula
                         formed by the Allegheny , Monongahela , and Ohio Rivers. I also
                         found a vigorous and growing literature on the city's industrial
                         era that began a century later. Enthusiastic and productive graduate
                         seminars in American social history begun during the 1960s at both the
                         University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University emphasized the
                         seven decades of rapid and extensive industrialization between the 1850s
                         and the end of World War I. 
                              Pittsburgh
                         's importance to the nation's industri-
                         alization in this period, especially with respect to the iron and steel
                         industry and the labor movement, attracted national and international
                         attention from industrial and social historians beyond the local universi-
                         ties. Accordingly, there was an outpouring of books, theses, and seminar
                         papers on this era of 
                              Pittsburgh
                          history. This extensive body of work contrasted with the
                         shockingly thin literature on the city as it had developed in the first
                         half of the nineteenth century.5
                    This imbalance in the writing of 
                              Pittsburgh
                          history remains. Leland D. Baldwin's 1937 history of 
                              Pittsburgh
                          from 1750 to 1865 is the 
                              4Ibid., 318.
                              5Samuel P Hays, ed., City at
                                        the Point: Essays on the Social History of 
                                             Pittsburgh
                                        
                                    ( 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , 
                                        Pa.
                                   , 1989).
                         
                          only extant comprehensive volume for
                         the frontier and antebellum periods. Baldwin wrote for a general
                         audience, and although he based his book on newspapers, manuscripts, and
                         other primary sources, he admittedly emphasized "feeling, drama,
                         and atmosphere rather than textbook completeness."6 Even as he dramatized and romanticized some events, in other
                         places Baldwin resorted to list-like compilations of city-building
                         achievements and social and cultural developments. In keeping with his
                         generation of historians, he produced a book more in the style of older
                         city biographies than the interpretive scholarly studies of cities which
                         came after Wade.
                    A decade later, Catherine Elizabeth Reiser wrote a richly empirical study of 
                              Pittsburgh
                         's economic growth down to 1850.7
                         In her view, the evolution of evermore efficient and far-reaching
                         commercial capabilities served the manufacturing goals of the city elite.
                         Despite being impressed with the city's growth of manufacturing,
                         Reiser spent most of her book carefully describing transportation
                         improvements, the emergence of commission merchants and marketing, and
                         developing efforts at eco- nomic organization. Further, her analysis
                         involved the evolution of a prodigious trade in goods, largely unrelated to
                         local manufactures, with points on the East Coast and in the Ohio Valley. Like many
                         who wrote in the years after her, Reiser interpreted 
                              Pittsburgh
                         's antebellum past through the lens of its later
                         industrial strength.
                    Besides the typical turn-of-the-century subscription-based city and county
                         histories and a smattering of essays and research notes (often written by
                         history buffs), Wade had only Baldwin's and Reiser's
                         works, and a handful of graduate theses and articles, on which to draw. On
                         eco- nomic matters, he referenced Reiser several times, but clearly he pre-
                         ferred to depend on his own research. There is no evidence that he used
                         Baldwin's story of 
                              Pittsburgh
                          , which offered little critical interpretation. In contrast,
                         Wade advanced generalizations about the early Ohio Valley cities on a great variety of
                         urban topics. In one passage, he pulled togeth- er the various strands of
                         social change to plausibly capture the situation in 
                              Pittsburgh
                          until nearly mid-century, when significant industrial 
                              6Leland D. Baldwin, 
                                             Pittsburgh
                                         : The Story of a City, 1750-1865 (1937; 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , 
                                        Pa.
                                    , 1970), xi.
                              7Catherine Elizabeth Reiser, 
                                        
                                             Pittsburgh
                                        's Commercial Development,
                                        1800-1850 ( 
                                        Harrisburg
                                    , 
                                        Pa.
                                   , 1951).
                         
                          growth and social change began to
                         transform the young city. Writing about the city as it appeared in 1830, he
                         concluded: 
                              Larger populations and the expansion of commerce and industry
                                   created new groups and interests, thus adding to the complexity
                                   and sophistication of city life. Already stratified after a
                                   genera- tion of growth, these communities found lines sharpened,
                                   class divisions deepened, and the sense of neighborliness and
                                   intimacy weakened. The fragmentation caused by the increasing
                                   special- ization of urban economies and the greater size of the
                                   towns meant the easy familiarity of small-town life more and more
                                   gave way to the impersonality of city living.8
                          Ranging across a broad variety of political, social, and cultural
                         topics, Wade both supported his own conclusion and foreshadowed later
                         schol- arship, as sparse as it is. Thirty years after Wade's
                         pathbreaking study, a few scholars reached back to the initial decades of
                         the nineteenth centu- ry in the course of preparing topical overviews
                         covering the city's full history. They brought to their essays
                         fresh perspectives based on the rel- atively recent literature of social
                         history and on a handful of graduate student papers on antebellum 
                              Pittsburgh
                          . Joel Tarr's essay on infrastruc- ture, Laurence
                         Glasco's on African Americans, Paul Kleppner's on poli-
                         tics and government, John Ingham's on elites, and my own on
                         hinterland relationships all confirmed and went beyond Wade's
                              observations.9 Even with the addition of Scott
                         Martin's excellent book on leisure and culture, however, the
                         paucity of scholarly investigations into early 
                              Pittsburgh
                          leaves Wade's generalizations about class,
                         fragmentation, and diminish- ing intimacy inadequately tested.10
                    By examining the five major urban centers of the Ohio Valley fron- tier, Wade avoided the
                         pitfalls of the single case study approach and strengthened his argument.
                         His comparative approach, however, may have had the unintended consequence
                         of overemphasizing 
                              Pittsburgh
                          as 
                              8Wade. The Urban Frontier,
                                   203.
                              9Hays, ed., City at the
                                        Point.
                              10Scott C. Martin, Killing
                                        Time: Leisure and Culture in Southwestern 
                                             Pennsylvania
                                        , 1800-1850 (
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , 
                                        Pa.
                                   , 1995).
                         
                          a manufacturing city during the first
                         third of the nineteenth century. Wade recognized 
                              Pittsburgh
                         's greater development of, and dependence on,
                         manufacturing compared to that of the other Ohio Valley towns. By 1815, only 
                              Lexington
                          seemed to depend as much on manufacturing. In this essay, I
                         suggest that while 
                              Pittsburgh
                         's industrial development did distinguish it from its
                         rival river towns, its business leaders--like those of 
                              Cincinnati
                          , 
                              Louisville
                          , and 
                              St.
                                   Louis
                          --were first and foremost intent on creating the great trading
                         depot of the continental interior. At the time, hinterland and
                         long-distance trade formed the basis of successful urban growth in the
                         nation and within the larger Atlantic arena, of which the fledgling
                              Ohio Valley
                         towns were a distant extension. The development of a market-based economy
                         in the newly settling frontiers required access to this trade and demanded
                         that urban centers organize and conduct the critical exchange function.11 As Diane Shaw has observed about the frontier
                         cities of the nation's antebellum interior, "the spatial
                         hierarchies inherent in the functionally, architecturally, and socially
                         sorted cityscape suggest the power of the merchant and profes- sional
                         classes and the presence of dominating commercial motives in the discourse
                         and practice of city building at the time."12
                         Only as 
                              Pittsburgh
                          came out of the lengthy depression of 1839-1843 did its
                         leaders begin to accept that 
                              Cincinnati
                          , 
                              St.
                                   Louis
                          , and, perhaps, 
                              Chicago
                          would be the gateways to a new, more distant West and that
                         their city's future lay more with manufacturing than with
                         river-based commerce.
                    The difficulty of interpreting the character of 
                              Pittsburgh
                         's early economy lies in discerning the relationship
                         between its commercial and manufacturing activities. Even before the
                         beginning of the nineteenth century, as Wade recounted, 
                              Pittsburgh
                          assumed the role of gateway to the West by virtue of its
                         location at the head of the Ohio River , the pri- mary route to the rapidly settling
                         territories (soon-to-be states) of 
                              Kentucky
                          , 
                              Ohio
                          , Indiana, and 
                              Illinois
                         . The former military routes that Generals Edward Braddock and
                         John Forbes carved out of the wilder- ness in their quests to defeat the
                         French in the 1750s became the early 
                              11James E. Vance Jr., The
                                        Merchant's World: The Geography of Wholesaling
                                   ( 
                                        Englewood Cliffs
                                    , 
                                        N.J.
                                   , 1970), 80-128.
                              12Diane Shaw, City Building on
                                        the Eastern Frontier: Sorting the New Nineteenth Century
                                        City (
                                        Baltimore
                                    , 
                                        Md.
                                    , 2004), 8. While Shaw wrote specifically of 
                                        Rochester
                                    and , two 
                                        New
                                             York
                                    cities that were contemporaries of 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    , she meant her observations to apply more broadly
                                   to interior cities of the era.
                         
                         
                         
                              An 1812 map of 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                   . The confluence of three rivers provided the young
                                   city with connections to eastern goods and western markets.
                                   John Melish, Travels in the 
                                             United
                                                  States
                                         of America... (
                                        Philadelphia
                                   , 1812)
                         
                          roads through the Allegheny
                              Mountains. They connected the eastern port cities of 
                              Philadelphia
                          and 
                              Baltimore
                          , respectively, to the Ohio Valley frontier at 
                              Pittsburgh
                          , where the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers also converged.
                         Between 1790 and the end of the War of 1812, the city provisioned federal
                         troops, marketed regional products, and outfitted migrants exhausted from
                         their arduous, trans-mountain journey and preparing to embark on the
                              Ohio River for
                         the next leg of their migra- tion. Artisans made goods for these markets,
                         while retail storekeepers sold both the products of the southwestern
                         Pennsylvania
                         countryside and goods imported from eastern merchants, such as
                         cloth, spices, tea, and coffee. With the expansion of settlement in the
                         Ohio Valley during these early years, the demand for eastern goods rose,
                         requiring the services of middlemen or commission merchants to handle the
                         growing volume of trade at this transshipment point from overland to
                         river transportation. Reiser found evidence that 
                         Pittsburgh's
                         first commission merchant may have dated to 1805; by 1815 twenty commission
                         merchants appeared in a local directory along with ninety-three other
                         merchants and twenty-one storekeepers.13
                    As they did in other frontier cities across 
                         America, early 
                         Pittsburgh
                         tradesmen produced goods on a small scale for food, shelter, clothing, and
                         transportation needs. They recognized that the mountains added a
                         transportation premium on the cost of eastern goods, some of which could be
                         locally manufactured more cheaply and profitably. The distinction between
                         retail stores and artisan shops is unclear in the documentary record and
                         functionally blurred in practice. Boot- and shoemakers, tanners, tailors,
                         weavers, and blacksmiths, some with shops separate from their residences,
                         joined boat builders, wagonmakers, saddlers, and others vital to
                         transportation to make Pittsburgh a city full of busy work- shops. Wade and
                         later historians particularly noted the nascent iron foundries and rolling
                         mills, glassworks, naileries, textile mills, and steam engine
                         manufactories, which are distinctive from the typical array of processors,
                         transportation services, and necessity manufactures of 
                         
                              13Reiser, Commercial
                                        Development, 128, 134-35, based in part on James M.
                                   Riddle, 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                        Directory for 1815
                                   (Pittsburgh
                                   , Pa.
                                   , 1815). Reiser described the function of the
                                   commission merchant as follows: "When trade was in its
                                   infancy, there was no need for commission merchants because the
                                   business was too small to support a middleman. As business
                                   expanded and goods were sent on longer journeys and in greater
                                   amounts, one man found that he could make a living by
                                   distributing goods for merchants and manufacturers" (p.
                                   134). The commission merchant placed goods on appropriate boats,
                                   held auctions, and ran a warehouse.
                         
                          American frontier cities. As the years
                         of embroilment with Britain
                         , especially during the war, greatly
                         stimulated these manufacturers, surveys of the city's
                         manufacturing in the 1810s placed iron and glass among the leading
                         industries. Wade described these industrial developments and argued that by
                         1815 Pittsburgh
                         had turned its business emphasis to manufacturing. Like
                         other western towns, he asserted, its "direction of growth . . .
                         had been pretty well set."14
                    Nearly all young, ambitious American cities of this period dreamed of
                         commercial greatness and engaged in rivalries for regional and long-
                         distance trade. One might wonder, then, why Wade lost sight of the extent
                         of Pittsburgh's commercial aspirations and emphasized the manu-
                         facturing activities of a town self-designated as the gateway to the West.
                         To be sure, Wade grounded his interpretation on the impressive extent of
                         the city's manufacturing. In 1815, for example, the city directory
                         reported 1,960 persons (out of a total population of between 8,000 and
                         9,000) employed in industrial activities. He duly noted contemporary
                         descriptions such as an 1810 characterization of the city as "a
                         large workshop" or John Melish's comment that
                         "in the course of my walks through the streets I heard everywhere
                         the sound of the hammer and the anvil." He gleaned other
                         contemporary references to its being called the 
                         Birmingham of 
                         America and
                         already displaying a smoky, dirty atmosphere.15
                         Moreover, Wade, like Reiser a decade earlier, noted that some Pittsburghers
                         in these initial years of the century believed that manufacturing was the
                         city's path to increased trade and prosperity.16 In this vein, he pointed to the dependence of early
                         manufacturers on the capital of merchants and to the mixing of these roles,
                         as a few merchants also started manufacturing enterprises.
                    In many frontier cities, merchants who accumulated capital from their trading
                         activities often purchased real estate in or around the city and farm
                         acreage in the hinterland. Land was a familiar investment for early
                         Americans, who found it a more attractive and stable investment than
                         manufacturing. Wade, however, proposed that the poor, already- 
                              14Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 42; Reiser, Commercial
                                        Development, 11-21.
                              15Wade, The Urban
                              Frontier, 43. Although one attributes 
                                   Pittsburgh
                                   's
                                   legendary smoky atmosphere to industry, residential burning of
                                   coal also contributed to the city's darkened
                                   skies.
                              16Ibid., 69. Reiser makes this observation a
                                   primary tenet of her study. It is possible that Wade was
                                   influenced by, or accepted, this view as he began to research
                                   Pittsburgh, but it is more likely that he based his conclusion
                                   on his own research.
                         
                          settled lands of southwestern
                         Pennsylvania
                         did not siphon off Pittsburgh
                         's investment capital,
                         as the more agriculturally suited hinterlands of the other Ohio
                         Valley
                         towns did. Accordingly, he reasoned that manufacturing would have been an
                         attractive alternative investment for Pittsburgh
                         merchants. An examination
                         of the city's elites, however, throws doubt on Wade's
                         speculation. Lingering Indian hostilities and Pennsylvania
                         land policy had
                         delayed settlement of the lands north of Pittsburgh
                         so that opportunities
                         for speculation certainly existed. More importantly, like members of their
                         class elsewhere in the nation, many of the city's wealthy,
                         including, for example, James O'Hara, John Ormsby, John Herron,
                         and John McClure, added investments in urban land and farms about the
                         region to their commercial portfolios.17 They also fre-
                         quently invested in manufacturing, perhaps to a greater extent than their
                         downriver peers. A scarcity of opportunities for real estate speculation
                         does not seem to be a likely explanation for the merchants'
                         financial support of local manufacturers.
                    The devastating impact of peace and depression on Pittsburgh
                         's
                         manufacturing activity further convinced Wade of the city's
                         distinctive economy. When the War of 1812 ended, British merchants flooded
                         American markets with manufactured goods. 
                         Pittsburgh
                         felt the impact almost
                         immediately--before the other Ohio Valley cities--and the depression that
                         enveloped the national economy worsened the city's plight. By
                         1819, both industrial employment and the value of production declined to
                         approximately one-third of their 1815 peaks. The 1820 census recorded a
                         population decrease in the city during these hard times. Pittsburghers
                         commented on the closed factories, empty houses, eerie silences, and less
                         smoky skies about the town. Further, Wade observed, 
                         Pittsburgh
                         took longer
                         to recover from the depression than did its peers, not reaching former
                         economic levels until the middle of the 1820s. While manufacturing and
                         commerce were flourishing a few years later, the 1830 census showed that
                         Cincinnati
                         had surpassed Pittsburgh
                         in population. In Wade's view,
                         the Queen City
                         had become the Ohio Valley's commercial powerhouse.
                         Like Baldwin and Reiser before him and historian John Ingham years
                         afterward, he deemed man- 
                              17Joseph F. Rishel, Founding
                                   Families of Pittsburgh
                                   : The Evolution of a Regional Elite,
                                   1760-1910 (Pittsburgh
                                   , Pa.
                                   , 1990), 36-38, 48-55.
                         
                          ufacturing the primary engine of
                         Pittsburgh's
                         economic life as it entered into the second third of
                         the century.18
                    Besides the evidence of its manufacturing activity, two additional points may
                         have contributed to Wade's interpretation that 
                         Pittsburgh
                         had
                         already become an industrial city, even on the frontier. First, Wade
                         accentuated Pittsburgh
                         's distinctiveness by the manner in which he
                         viewed Cincinnati
                         . In discussing the Queen City
                         's extensive
                         commerce, he included packed meat as its "central export
                         item" and reported that the city had already become known as
                         "Porkopolis." He appeared not to have considered meat
                         packing as a manufacturing activity, although most historians include
                         agricultural processing as part of a city's manufacturing
                         complex. Like 
                         Pittsburgh
                         's ironworks, Cincinnati
                         's
                         slaughterhouses not only were a prominent presence in the landscape with
                         the constant bellowing of their raw material, odiferous operations, and
                         stream-fouling wastes, but they also spawned substantial linked manu-
                         facturing (such as coopering) and by-product firms turning out brushes,
                         combs, buttons, and a host of other goods. Viewed in this light,
                         Cincinnati's
                         economic profile takes on a more industrial cast, and
                         Pittsburgh's
                         appears less distinctive.19
                         Secondly, Wade may have adopted a retrospective view of the Iron City.
                         Given the unprecedented expansion and transformation of the iron and
                         steel industry only a few decades after 1830, both amateur and academic
                         historians (including Reiser) have concluded that 
                         Pittsburgh
                         was destined
                         from its beginnings to become the Steel City. With iron ore available in
                         the Allegheny Mountains, an abundance of coal nearby in the southwestern
                         corner of the state, and access to the rivers, the small iron foundries and
                         rolling mills of these initial decades were the precursors of the massive
                         iron and steel industry of the future, and could be seen, therefore, as
                         evidence of its destiny as a great industrial city. Few have resisted the
                         temptation to interpret the early city in light of its spectacular
                         industrial development at the end of the nineteenth century.
                    Wade may have undervalued the commercial aspirations of Pittsburgh
                         's
                         leaders to become and remain the great entrepot of the American interior.
                         In his concluding chapter, he emphasized the impor- 
                         
                              18Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 166-69, 194-95; Reiser, Commercial
                                        Development, 21-27; Baldwin, The Story of
                                        a City, 152-53; John Ingham, Making Iron
                                             and Steel: Independent Mills in 
                                             Pittsburgh, 1820-1920
                                   (Columbus
                                   , Ohio, 1991), 22.
                              19Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 196-97.
                         
                          tance of the five cities'
                         commercial rivalry for supremacy in their own region, in the Ohio Valley,
                         and the West more generally: "Indeed, one of the most striking
                         characteristics of this period was the development of an urban imperialism
                         which saw rising young giants seek to spread their power and influence over
                         the entire new country."20 Although Wade
                         focused on Pittsburgh
                         's manufacturing in the century's
                         first few years, there is little question that most of the city's
                         leaders saw river-based commerce as the source of its economic growth and
                         prosperous future. The spirit of urban imperialism infused the
                         merchants' rhetoric and actions; the rapid settlement and economic
                         development in the western country spurred the city's middleman
                         trade. As Reiser points out, the earliest efforts at economic organization
                         strove to enhance trade by expanding and stabilizing the export markets for
                         the region's agricultural and manufacturing products.21 The choice of 
                         Wheeling
                         as the Ohio River terminus
                         of the National Road, completed to that town in 1818, challenged
                         Pittsburgh
                         's middleman position and its transshipment of goods
                         between the East and the Ohio Valley. The spirited rhetorical exchange in
                         the two cities' newspapers, gleefully reported by Wade,
                         underscored the high stakes of commercial rivalry.22
                    The war's stimulus to manufacturing and its dramatic decline after
                         the war set up the 1820s as a critical decade for determining which type of
                         economic activity would drive the city's recovery from depression.
                         The close relationship of merchants and manufacturers, however, when
                         combined with the unevenness of economic data, cloud the picture of the
                         recovery process. Reiser, Wade, and Ingham all believed that manu-
                         facturing recovered more quickly than trade and that by mid-decade it had
                         become the leading activity. The transport and sale of the city's
                         man- ufactured products to Ohio Valley markets took up the slack until com-
                         merce robustly recovered in the second half of the decade. By 1830, both
                         manufacturing and commerce had far surpassed their 1815 levels.23
                    The quicker recovery of manufacturing did not mean that city leaders decided
                         to relinquish their commercial horizons to downriver 
                              20Ibid., 322, 336.
                              21Reiser, Commercial
                                        Development, 173-90, 125.
                              22Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 322-27.
                              23Ibid., 180, 194-95; Baldwin, The Story of a City, 185; Ingham, Making
                                        Iron and Steel, 22-23.
                         
                         
                         
                              The first Pittsburgh
                                   Market and county courthouse,
                                   from an 1866 illustration. Despite Wade's emphasis on
                                   manufactures, commerce was also an integral part of the early
                                   city's economy. Darlington Family Papers,
                                   1753-1921, Darlington Memorial Library, University of
                                   Pittsburgh
                          rivals. Historians agree that the threats to trade by the
                         National Road, 
                         Erie Canal, 
                         Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, and the Ohio canal
                         system (the last two begun in the late 1820s) worried the city's
                         merchants and spurred them into action. As a means to protect their western
                         trade, they directed their considerable political energies towards the
                         construction of a 
                         Pennsylvania
                         turnpike (opened in 1818) and a statewide
                         canal (completed in 1834), state authorization of improved navigation on
                         the Monongahela River
                         , and federal government-funded improvements on the
                         Ohio River
                         between Pittsburgh
                         and Wheeling. They also lobbied hard for
                         protective tariffs that benefited manufacturing and thus trade. In the
                         1820s, the city's merchants, exercising their municipal political
                         power, upgraded the Monongahela wharf, instituted a wharf master, reg-
                         ularized shipping news, and paved commercial streets.24
                    In conjunction with a booming western economy and the wide-spread adoption
                         of the steamboat, the merchants' efforts in the 1820s to 
                              24Reiser, Commercial
                                        Development, 44-46, 138-39.
                         
                          strengthen 
                         Pittsburgh's
                         position in the nation's growing transportation network seemed to
                         bear fruit. By ending his study in 1830, Wade did not track the full
                         revival of the western trade during the rest of the decade. Steamboats
                         facilitated that revival throughout the Ohio Valley; by making upriver
                         transportation a commercial reality, they especially aided Pittsburgh
                         as
                         the most eastern, upstream port. The improved overland routes to the East
                         became quite busy, but it was the Pennsylvania
                         Main Line Canal that had the
                         greatest impact on the western trade. The city became a depot for western
                         agricultural products and "southern groceries" such as
                         sugar, tea, spices, and coffee, while the re-export of eastern
                         merchandise and "freight" joined with
                         Pittsburgh
                         's iron products, glasswares, hardware, and machinery to
                         dominate the downriver trade. By 1836 the estimated value of trade doubled
                         that for manufacturing. Reiser claimed that there were sixty to eighty
                         wholesale establishments in the 1830s, the successors to the commission
                         merchants. As Baldwin wrote, "Before many years an increasing
                         share of the intersectional commerce began to find its way back through
                         Pittsburgh
                         in order to utilize its improving transportation
                              facilities."25
                    Manufacturing also continued to expand well into the 1830s, and the merchants
                         did not lose sight of its importance for their trade and as a source of
                         profit. Indeed, commerce and manufacturing always went hand-in-hand in
                         Pittsburgh
                         . The merchants' development of markets and capital was
                         critical to the rise of manufacturing. The mutual economic interests of
                         Pittsburgh
                         's merchants and manufacturers eased the flow of
                         merchant capital into manufacturing. Wade and the other historians point
                         to, for example, the investments of wealthy merchants Joseph McClurg and
                         James O'Hara in the city's first iron foundry and glass
                         works, respectively. The growth of manufacturing, especially iron prod-
                         ucts, in the 1820s and 1830s required considerable capital that the mer-
                         chant community largely provided. The lack of surviving company records for
                         the period makes it impossible to gauge the level of merchant support, but
                         in summarizing scholarship on antebellum iron manufacturing, Ingham
                         recounts the importance of iron and hardware merchants, private bankers,
                         and others with capital who invested in the industry.26
                    In these same years, merchants were prominent among the city's
                         leaders. Former military men, large landowners, and merchants, often 
                              25Ibid., 27, 135; Baldwin, The
                                        Story of a City, 185. 
                              26Ingham, Making Iron and
                                        Steel, 23-25; Reiser, Commercial
                                        Development, 128.
                         
                         
                         
                              Pittsburgh
                                   in 1839. The city's development
                                   into a major manufacturing center is already obvious in this
                                   view. Daniel Adams, Modern Geography in Three
                                   Parts (Boston
                                   , 1839)
                          Scots-Irish and Presbyterians, formed a small patrician class
                         used to providing leadership. Despite his emphasis on manufacturing
                         during this period, Wade described these leaders as having a
                         "commercial outlook" and exercising a "merchant
                         supremacy in local affairs." They advocated wharf and
                         transportation improvements and organized trade-enhancing institutions.
                         Ingham calls their power a "mercantile aristocracy."27 In this manner, Wade and Ingham closely align the
                         outlook of Pittsburgh
                         's leadership with that of Diane
                         Shaw's New York
                         frontier cities, Rochester
                         and Syracuse.
                    Wade and Ingham describe a challenge in the 1820s to the mercantile
                         leadership, with the inevitable aging of the patrician generation and the
                         rising significance of manufacturing. Manufacturers--including some who
                         were not originally Pittsburghers--gained political office and joined the
                         major business institutions, producing a more inclusive lead- 
                              27Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 77-79; Ingham, Making Iron and
                                        Steel, 22; Rishel, Founding Families of
                                             Pittsburgh
                                        , 22-45.
                         
                          ership. Nevertheless, commercial and
                         professional men still predominated in the expanding city
                         councils--comprising 58 percent of the representatives in 1828, with the
                         proportion peaking in the following decade--and they similarly dominated
                         the new Board of Trade and Bank of Pittsburgh
                         in the 1830s. The growth of
                         the city's population and increase in its ethnic diversity, the
                         spatial expansion of districts for council representation, and the rise of
                         manufacturing, all evident by the 1830s, broadened economic and political
                         leadership such that in the next decade merchants no longer enjoyed a
                         majority position, even though they remained the largest single business
                         group before the depression.28
                    The embarrassingly slim scholarship on Pittsburgh
                         during the initial third
                         of the century leaves open to interpretation the question raised in this
                         essay. Wade and other historians assume that the city's manufac-
                         turing greatness was set in the second and third decades of the nine-
                         teenth century. Wade concludes that manufacturing had become
                         Pittsburgh's 
                         leading economic force by 1815. Henceforth, it was a
                         manufacturing city and commerce was subordinate. Merchants, however,
                         remained in power into the 1830s, increasingly sharing their leadership
                         with manufacturers with whom they were closely associated both eco-
                         nomically and socially, apparently without antipathy. The political strug-
                         gle of the anti-Masons in the early 1830s was more the result of the older
                         generation trying to hold onto leadership than of an explicit division
                         between manufacturers and merchants.29 The merchants
                         actively worked to regain the city's commercial position in the
                         West in the 1820s, steered municipal expenditures towards commercial ends,
                         and enjoyed the fruits of their labors until the onset of the 1839
                         depression.
                    Even though trade continued to grow for several years after its recovery in
                         the 1840s, the nation's economic geography had irrevocably
                         changed. Cincinnati
                         's commercial supremacy in the mid-Ohio Valley
                         (espied by Wade as evident in 1830), the burgeoning market for industrial
                         products, and the completion of railroad networks connecting the East with
                         the West in the early 1850s spelled the end of Pittsburgh
                         's
                         commercial dreams. Agricultural development had moved north 
                              28Paul Kleppner, "Government,
                                   Parties, and Voters in Pittsburgh
                                   ," in Hays, ed., City at the Point, 154-59.
                              29Ibid., 157-59.
                         
                          towards the Great Lakes and west to
                         and beyond the Mississippi Valley. At first, this spatial shift favored
                         Cincinnati
                         and St. Louis
                         , but soon, and more dramatically, Chicago
                         took
                         advantage of it. The railroads that benefited Chicago
                         so greatly after 1850
                         rapidly eclipsed the nation's long-distance canals and destroyed
                         Pittsburgh
                         's middleman role at the head of the Ohio River
                         for
                         western-moving merchandise and eastern-directed agricultural products.
                         Moreover, critical changes in the market for iron goods, in particular the
                         burgeoning appetite for railroad rails and the demands of the Civil War,
                         presented excellent opportunities for Pittsburgh
                         's ironmasters if
                         they could successfully adapt--and adapt they did! The future for the
                         gateway to the West truly became manufacturing; the city's
                         businessmen, including merchants like Benjamin E Jones and James Laughlin
                         and railroaders like Andrew Carnegie, pursued the new industrial horizon
                         with astonishing success.
                    Wade aptly recognized most of the merchants' relationships to
                         manufacturing and placed these commercial men at the top of the social
                         hierarchy. However, by ending his study on a census year instead of on the
                         more natural economic moment of the depression in 1839--when an expansion
                         of fifteen or more years came to an end--Wade missed the revival of
                         Pittsburgh's
                         western trade and, like others before and after him,
                         stressed the more robust manufacturing sector in the initial years of
                         recovery in the 1820s. Additionally, this perspective allowed little con-
                         text to understand fully the merchants' transportation strategy
                         and its consequences. Without studying the composition of the
                         city's political leadership, he could not evaluate the continued
                         power of the merchants in the face of manufacturing's
                         "challenge" to commerce. Wade's interpretation
                         of Pittsburgh
                         as a manufacturing city since the second decade of the
                         century, in fact since 1815, is convenient and compatible with later
                         developments. But it deflects our attention away from the central, driv-
                         ing motivation of the city until the 1840s, and in so doing might well
                         miscast our view of its social and political life.
                    Wade's history of early Pittsburgh
                         , as well as that of the other
                         Ohio Valley cities, demonstrates his superb abilities as an historian. With
                         the exception of its undue emphasis on the city's manufacturing at
                         so early a period, The Urban Frontier remains essential
                         reading for understanding Pittsburgh
                         in the initial three decades of the
                         nineteenth century.
               
               

               
                    Cincinnati
                         a Queen City
                         ? Only on the Frontier
                    DAVID S. STRADLING

                    While perhaps not as famous as "Call me
                         Ishmael," a memorable line opens Richard C. Wade's
                         seminal work: "The towns were the spearheads of the
                         frontier." That simple declarative sentence threw into question
                         everything historians thought they knew about how the frontier worked.
                         Frederick Jackson Turner's conception of the frontier, so central
                         to how Americans thought of themselves and their nation's his-
                         tory, was clearly flawed. Rarely does a single book so quickly and thor-
                         oughly change the way historians think. The book's influence
                         derived from two factors: Wade's evidence, so powerful and
                         abundant that his radical declaration seemed incontrovertible; and
                         Wade's straightforward writing, as evidenced by the appearance of
                         his thesis in the very first sentence, which made everything he wrote seem
                         matter-of-fact.
                    I first read this opening sentence--and all those that followed it--thirty
                         years after Wade had written The Urban Frontier. I was as
                         taken by the book as previous generations of historians had been. I found
                         it so revelatory that I even remember where I was while reading it. The
                         book introduced me to urban history, and it introduced me as well to one of
                         the founding tenets of the field: cities have been integral to the develop-
                         ment of this nation, even in its earliest decades and even on its
                         frontiers.
                    Undoubtedly one of the reasons that Wade's work so struck me was its
                         attention to my hometown, 
                         Cincinnati
                         . This was the first serious 
                              David S. Stradling is Associate Professor of History at the
                                   University of Cincinnati. His most recent book is Making Mountains: New York City
                                        and the Catskills
                                   (2007).
                         
                          treatment of 
                         Cincinnati's
                         history by an outsider that I had read, and, given my pride in the 
                         Queen City,
                         I felt rather pleased. Having grown up in a shrinking city whose
                         politicians and boosters increasingly found it necessary to defend
                         Cincinnati
                         as a bona fide urban center, as a place that still mattered, I
                         found it refreshing to come upon a book that set out to prove that
                         Cincinnati
                         counted as a city. To support his thesis regarding the
                         centrality of cities on the frontier, Wade gathered every bit of evidence
                         that might be mustered in support of the idea that even infant 
                         Cincinnati
                         was urban. According to The Urban Frontier, by 1830
                         Cincinnatians had built a 
                         Queen City
                         along the Ohio River, with a thriv-
                         ing economy and a rich, urbane culture.
                    But there is a problem, and not a small one. If 
                         Cincinnati
                         was clearly a
                         city forty years after its founding, it was not one when Matthias Denman
                         and a group of other investors commenced their settlement, initially called
                         Losantiville
                         , in 1788. Denman founded what he hoped would become a
                         city--laying out and naming streets, hammering stakes in the ground,
                         sending new maps to the printers, placing advertisements back East--but
                         declaring that a city exists does not make it so. Wade knew this, and he
                         devoted the bulk of The Urban Frontier to attempting to
                         convince readers that the five aspiring cities he studied, including
                         Cincinnati, were in fact urban.

                    
                         WHAT CONSTITUTES A CITY?

                         The kind of evidence that Wade gathered and the manner in which he
                              categorized it tell us a great deal about how he, and many other his-
                              torians of his era, thought about cities. Curiously, economics play a
                              relatively insignificant role in the discussion. Chapter 2 describes
                              the "economic base" of the city, focusing on river
                              travel and trade, and on the development of 
                              Cincinnati
                              as
                              "the Great Emporium of the West."1 Wade discusses early breweries and iron manufacturing,
                              too, but he does almost nothing by way of measuring or explaining the
                              city's role in the development of the frontier. Agriculture
                              is nearly as invisible in The Urban Frontier as
                              cities were in Frederick Jackson Turner's The
                                   Significance of the Frontier in American History (1894).
                              Wade tells us nothing about the importance of urban manufacturing as
                              compared to 
                                   1Richard C. Wade, The
                                             Urban Frontier: The Rise of Western Cities,
                                             1790-1830 (1959; 
                                        Urbana,
                                        Ill., 1996), 53.
                              
                              
                              
                                   John Cleves Symmes. Like his many fellow
                                        speculators, Symmes knew that small towns and cities were
                                        necessary to frontier development and therefore good places
                                        to make quick fortunes. University of Cincinnati,
                                        Archives & Rare Books Library
                               rural manufacturing, perhaps because a map of
                              Ohio's turn-of-the-nineteenth-century grist mills and saw
                              mills would have revealed development along waterways in towns and
                              in the countryside. This was an era when economic activity was
                              remarkably diffuse, in even the most urbanized regions, let alone on
                              the frontier.
                         Of course, as the region filled with farmers, they would need mer-
                              chants to buy their surpluses and to sell them goods; they would need
                              banks and mills. As the landscape filled with farms, it would also
                              fill  with villages. Denman hoped
                              that his village would be among those that thrived, although most
                              never became substantial cities. The long list of failures includes
                              North Bend,
                              founded by John Cleves Symmes, who had purchased a million
                              acres of land along the Ohio, stretching between the 
                              Great and 
                              Little
                              Miami Rivers. Symmes, and the many other speculators who laid out town
                              sites, understood the importance of villages to an agricultural
                              society. Driven by the profit motive, these men also understood that
                              rapidly growing towns were the best places to make a fortune, because
                              such sites allowed them to sell their land in many smaller parcels at
                              considerably higher prices.
                         Wade was unconcerned with Cincinnati
                              's wider economic connec-
                              tions, except those up and down the Ohio River, to and from larger and
                              more distant ports. His approach ignored the rural hinterlands and
                              thus heightened his assertion that these cities grew in a western
                              wilderness. An analysis of the city-country relationship on the
                              frontier awaited the attention of William Cronon, whose Nature's Metropolis: Chicago
                                   and the Great West
                              (1990) goes beyond Wade's argument to reveal precisely how
                              cities were essential to the frontier process, following all those
                              economic connections that Wade so scrupulously avoided. Interestingly,
                              although he plowed in fields cleared by Wade thirty years earlier,
                              Cronon says essentially nothing about The Urban
                                   Frontier, instead taking on Turner's frontier
                              thesis, which had survived multiple historiographical blows over the
                              years. Like Wade, Cronon argues that frontier history makes no sense
                              without a discussion of cities, but unlike Wade, he makes his argument
                              by imbedding the city in the process of regional growth. Here the ties
                              between city and country--most of them economic--become critical to
                              understanding how the frontier developed over time and how 
                              Chicago
                              became the metropolis of the Midwest. Ironically, Wade had included in
                              his book a wonderful quote from Pictures of
                                   Cincinnati
                               (1815) by early booster and polymath Daniel
                              Drake, who anticipated Cronon's argument. "The relations of a town with the surrounding country,
                              are an essential part of its history," Drake wrote,
                              "and cannot be understood without studying both."
                              One hopes that in the near future a scholar of Wade's or
                              Cronon's talents will undertake such a project for
                              Cincinnati
                              .2



                         
                              2William Cronon, Nature's Metropolis: Chicago
                                   and the Great
                                        West (New York, 1990); Wade, The Urban
                                        Frontier, 156, quoting Daniel Drake, Natural and Statistical View, or Pictures of Cincinnati
                                             and
                                             the Miami Country (
                                   Cincinnati, 1815).
                         

                         
                         Since Wade's economic evidence in support of urbanism was not
                              especially strong, he needed another approach. After a brief
                              discussion of charters and the legal foundation of frontier cities and
                              their states, Wade begins a long description of the
                              "Emergence of Urban Problems." These were mostly
                              problems of governance, related to the lack of municipal authority.
                              Here we find out that as late as 1815 
                              Cincinnati
                              had no paved roads,
                              and that people complained of pigs and manure in the streets.
                              Cincinnati
                              lacked a night patrol until after 1825, and street light-
                              ing was haphazard. Residents used outhouses, with private vaults stor-
                              ing human waste throughout the community. Wade's larger point
                              is that cities only slowly gained the municipal authority to solve the
                              problems of urban growth, but at the same time he reminds us just how
                              similar these places remained to the many smaller communities in their
                              hinterlands. Unpaved roads and wandering pigs were not specifically
                              urban problems, obviously. In fact, during this long discussion, the
                              reader might begin to wonder what constitutes a city.
                         But then in a separate chapter Wade treats the most familiar urban
                              problem--the growing differentiation of the population and the devel-
                              opment of what Drake euphemistically called "moral
                              diversity." The stratifying social structure meant an
                              "increasing number of the needy."3 The Benevolent Society was so overwhelmed by 1815, Wade
                              notes, that it declared that the city needed a poor house. Just as
                              troubling, the young city's river economy created a floating
                              population of men, fond of strong drink and quick to fight. Saloons,
                              gambling, and prostitution clustered near the waterfront. Surely these
                              particular social wills were evidence of urbanity.
                         Wade's discussion of an expanding population of dependent poor
                              and the growth of vice are just prelude to his presentation of his
                              favored evidence of urbanity. Frontier cities were urban, he writes,
                              because they served as cultural centers. In a chapter entitled
                              "The Better Life," Wade describes the myriad ways in
                              which every one of his frontier cities made tentative progress in its
                              cultural development. Wade tells us about the- aters and night patrols
                              and fire departments. Cincinnati
                              had all kinds of schools, perhaps the
                              best in the region. There were churches, museums, libraries, and, that
                              most urban institution of all, newspapers. By 1820, 
                              Cincinnati had the
                              most newspapers in the region--"seven weeklies, 
                                   3Wade, The Urban
                                             Frontier, 104.
                              
                               two dailies, a literary monthly,
                              a medical journal, and even a magazine for teenagers." In the
                              same year, Drake founded his Western Museum, which he hoped would
                              advance scientific understanding in his city. Poor support for the
                              museum led to its intellectual deterioration, Wade tells us, as it
                              added "oddities, freaks, and wax models to meet the competi-
                              tion of a neighboring commercial museum." Indeed, as he
                              describes many of the city's early cultural offerings, Wade
                              reveals just how much 
                              Cincinnati
                              must have felt like an outpost, far
                              removed from the cultural centers of the East. The city had theater,
                              but one newspaper noted that in 1827 support for drama was so slim
                              that "last winter and spring the Players absolutely
                              starved." Some of the harshest criticism came from
                              Englishwoman Frances Trollope, whose observations of her (briefly)
                              adopted home consistently called into question the 
                              Queen City's
                              urbanity. The consummate snob, Trollope complained
                              of the theater, where " [m]en came into the lower tier of
                              boxes without coats, and I have seen shirt sleeves tucked up to the
                              shoulder." Worse yet, "the spitting was
                              incessant," and "the mixed smell of onions and
                              whisky" made the crowd nearly unbearable. We do not need
                              Trollope to confirm that 
                              Cincinnati
                              was no London
                              , and that to those
                              familiar with the great metropolis the 
                              Queen City
                              was evidently
                              backwoods. Throughout his discussion, Wade makes clear the hard,
                              halting work of making a city urbane.4
                    
                    
                         ONLY ON THE FRONTIER

                         Wade's discussion of these developing cultural institutions
                              adds weight to his argument concerning the urban frontier, but
                              tracking Cincinnati
                              's cultural evolution may not tell us
                              enough about the growth of the city overall. Indeed, the easiest way
                              to describe a city is with population figures. In 1810, twenty-two
                              years after its founding, Cincinnati had a population of just over
                              2,500, the threshold figure that the Census Bureau has long used to
                              define an urban place. At that point, Cincinnati
                              --Ohio's
                              largest city--contained just a little more than 1 percent of the
                              state's population. It was the 46th largest city in the
                              nation, and just 3 percent of the size of the largest, 
                              New York City.
                              Even after another twenty years of growth, 
                              Cincinnati's
                              population had not yet reached 25,000. Its growth can seem meteoric
                              when expressed in per- 
                                   4Ibid., 251, 260, 257, 259.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Fort Washington, built in 1789 on the site of
                                        what would soon become 
                                        Cincinnati
                                        . During the 1790s, the
                                        towns of Marietta
                                        and Chillicothe
                                        seemed far more likely
                                        candidates than Cincinnati
                                        to become major cities.
                                        University of Cincinnati, Archives & Rare Books
                                        Library
                               centages, such as that in the 1820s Cincinnati
                              grew by more
                              than 250 percent. But in the time it took Cincinnati
                              to gain 25,000
                              residents, the state of 
                              Ohio
                              gained nearly one million, meaning that
                              by 1830 Cincinnati
                              constituted less than 3 percent of the
                              state's population. And, in an indication of the
                              frontier's movement beyond Ohio
                              , in the years since
                              Cincinnati
                              's founding Indiana
                              had gained 343,000 residents,
                              none of whom lived in a community larger than 2,500. Figures like
                              these might make us wonder about Wade's assertion that
                              "towns were the spearheads of the frontier."
                         To truly understand the urban frontier, however, we must move beyond the
                              numbers and consider how migrants and travelers perceived these young
                              midwestern cities in their settings. Early settlers might well have
                              thought of the cluster of wooden buildings around Fort Washington as
                              the seat of civilization in the Northwest Territory. After days of
                              drifting down the river, seeing little more than occasional curls of
                              smoke, travelers knew instantly that even nascent 
                              Cincinnati was very
                              different from what surrounded it. As early as 1797, one observer
                              called it "the metropolis of the north-western
                              territory." At the time, the community had fewer than 750
                              residents. Only on the frontier might a  village of 750 serve as a metropolis. By
                              the 1820s, travelers regularly expressed surprise at what they saw as
                              they rounded the river's bend: church spires and brick
                              buildings; civilization's redoubt. Even if most streets were
                              unpaved, they were at least straight, a sure sign of urbanity in a
                              wilderness of meandering roadways and river ways. Only on the frontier
                              might a town of fewer than 25,000 residents pass for a Queen City.
                              This is why we need to understand Cincinnati
                              's hinterland of
                              farms and forests to understand the city itself.
                    

                    
                         THE PROBLEM OF TELEOLOGY
                         If just founding a city were evidence enough that towns were the
                              spearheads of the frontier, then Wade could have selected Marietta as
                              one of his subjects. The first permanent settlement in the Northwest
                              Territories, 
                              Marietta
                              served as base of the Ohio Company's
                              effort to settle eastern Ohio
                              . Alternately, Wade might have chosen
                              Schoenbrunn,
                              the Moravian missionary settlement founded in 1772, which
                              gained both the first school and the first Christian church in the
                              Ohio Territory. Wade might also have included 
                              Chillicothe, 
                              eight years
                              younger than 
                              Cincinnati,
                              which did not grow as quickly but became the
                              state's first capital in 1803. It seems unlikely that a
                              history of villages like these would have convinced readers that
                              Turner had shortchanged cities in his depiction of the frontier. Wade
                              chose instead to study only settlements that grew into substantial
                              cities. Villages that failed to thrive, like North Bend
                              or
                              Schoenbrunn
                              , played no role in his urban frontier. His selective
                              inclusion of Ohio Valley cities begs the question: How important is
                              our knowledge of 
                              Cincinnati
                              's long-term growth to our
                              perception of it as a city--even at birth when it had no paved streets
                              and just two thousand residents?
                         Perhaps the most important proof of Wade's assertion that young
                              Cincinnati
                              was indeed urban is the city's sustained growth.
                              Cincinnati
                              continued to grow along with its region for 150 years,
                              eventually developing into a city of 500,000 people by the
                              mid-1900s. In the early 1800s, settlers and speculators peered into
                              the future with remarkably strong expectations of growth. Their blend
                              of wishful thinking and reasonable expectation helps to explain why
                              even small settlements took on the air of urbanity on the frontier.
                              The expectation and anticipation of change were essential parts of
                              frontier culture, in aspiring cities and on recently cleared fields.
                              Wade exploited these expectations of growth in his attack on
                              Turner's teleological portrait of the frontier--an inevitable
                              sequence  of stages of
                              development, progressing from natives, hunters, and trappers to
                              extensive farming, then intensive farming, and finally urban growth.
                              Ironically, Wade's own teleology turned Turner around,
                              putting cities first and treating all speculative town sites as though
                              they possessed the potential to become substantial cities.
                         Despite the problem of teleology, Wade's book has remained
                              interpretively sound for fifty years. Modern readers might wish that
                              he had said more about Native Americans and women, especially, but his
                              prose remains remarkably fresh after all these years. One must
                              conclude that Wade's work remains so alive mostly because he
                              was right. By 1830, as Wade concluded, the rise of these five cities
                              "had driven a broad wedge of urbanism into Western
                              life."5 By then, Cincinnati
                              was the
                              nation's eighth largest city and, in fact, the Queen City
                              of
                              the West.
                    

                    
                          BEYOND THE URBAN FRONTIER

                         Curiously, Wade's book did not inspire a spate of work on
                              Cincinnati
                              's early decades. Perhaps he was so convincing that
                              young scholars thought the matter closed. Indeed, the only significant
                              monograph on the early decades of the Queen City
                              is Daniel
                              Aaron's Cincinnati
                                   : Queen City
                                   of the West,
                                   1819-1838, which did not see publication until 1992,
                              although Aaron had completed the work in 1942, well before Wade began
                                   The Urban Frontier. Aaron's
                              dissertation shared important commonalities with Wade's,
                              suggesting that the time was right for a reversal of Turner's
                              conception of the frontier. In search of urban culture on the frontier
                              of the early 1800s, Aaron determined that "all roads seemed
                              to point to Cincinnati
                              , the economic and cultural center of the Ohio
                              Valley." Unlike Wade, Aaron took on Turner directly and
                              openly, noting that erroneous clichs had been attached to frontier
                              settlers, clichs that emphasized Turner's beloved
                              "individualism, enterprise, egalitarianism,
                              self-confidence, and a variety of other absolutes," as Aaron
                              summarized them. Like Wade, Aaron looked to culture to describe
                              "the urban West," which he likened to
                              "urban islands in a sea of wilderness."
                              Aaron's Cincinnati
                              is a community full of associations and
                              cooperation: "benefit associations, singing societies,
                              museums, and cir- cuses," the stuff of urban life and
                              evidence of communal sensibilities. 
                                   5Ibid., 341.
                              
                              
                              
                                   
                                        Cincinnati
                                        in 1800. Within a decade, Cincinnati
                                        
                                        would begin to develop into the 
                                        "Queen City"
                                        of Ohio
                                        . Cincinnati
                                        Historical
                                        Society
                               This was a powerful refutation of Turner and his image of
                              Americans as thriving individualists.6
                         The Urban Frontier clearly had much in common with
                              Aaron's earlier work, which remained unknown to Wade as he
                              wrote, but Cincinnati
                              historiography after 1959 moved away from the
                              frontier. Queen City
                                   Heritage, Ohio
                                   Valley History, and other publications of the 
                              Cincinnati
                              Historical Society contain surprisingly few references to The Urban Frontier, even in articles concerned with the
                              city's settlement and early decades. If The
                                   Urban Frontier had a significant impact on the historiog-
                              raphy of Cincinnati
                              , it is difficult to tell from footnotes, let alone
                              from the topics scholars pursued. Most Cincinnati
                              historians have
                              instead focused on the decades after Wade's narrative ends,
                              decades of rapid growth and urban evolution. Among the most important
                              of these works is Steven J. Ross's Workers on
                                   the Edge: Work, Leisure, and Politics in Industrializing
                                   Cincinnati
                                   , 1788-1890 (1985). Unlike Wade, Ross is primarily
                              concerned with economics, especially those of the working class, and
                              his early chapters describe "The Age of the
                              Artisan," a romantic era when workers controlled their own
                              destinies because they possessed valuable skills. For 
                                   6Daniel Aaron, Cincinnati
                                        :
                                        Queen City
                                        of the West, 1819-1838 (Columbus
                                        , Ohio,
                                        1992), xxiii, 1-6.
                              
                               Ross, Cincinnati
                              was
                              "the republican City on a Hill," where both the
                              economy and democracy worked "on behalf of the commonwealth
                              of all citizens." In his telling, Cincinnati
                              's
                              frontier location retarded the growth of urban problems, especially
                              those related to social inequality. The citizenry, according to
                              Ross, was wary of manufacturing, mindful of Thomas
                              Jefferson's warning that great cities would be destructive of
                              American democracy. A very compact city, easily escaped on foot or
                              boat, Cincinnati
                              might seem the New England ideal, where
                              "early residents were forced to achieve a mutual awareness
                              and understanding of the conditions of daily life among various
                              classes." Ross emphasizes residents' egalitarian and
                              mutualistic tendencies, and claims that everyone "cooper-
                              ated in the growth of the city." Young Cincinnati
                              could
                              hardly have been more different than the conflicted, industrial city
                              it would become later in the century. Wade and Ross, working in
                              support of very different theses, described very different places.7
                         Not surprisingly, over the last forty years most scholarly work on
                              Cincinnati
                              has focused on the twentieth century. The most influential
                              monograph has been Zane L. Miller's Boss Cox's Cincinnati
                                   : Urban Politics in the Progressive Era
                              (1968), derived from Miller's University of Chicago
                              dissertation completed under the guidance of Richard Wade and edited
                              by Wade for Oxford's Urban Life in America series. Miller was
                              among the first historians to question the dominant interpretation of
                              the urban boss system as wholly corrupt and inefficient.
                              Miller's considerable influence on Cincinnati
                              historiography
                              came not just through this groundbreaking work, but also through
                              several important works that followed, including Suburb:
                                   Neighborhood and Community in Forest Park
                                   , Ohio
                                   , 1935-1976
                              (1981), which narrated the distinctive history of an intentionally
                              racially integrated and comprehensively planned postwar suburb; and
                                   Changing Plans for America's Inner Cities:
                                        Cincinnati
                                        's Over-the-Rhine and Twentieth-Century
                                   Urbanism (1998), which traced the history of
                              Cincinnati
                              's most infamous ghetto as a means of analyzing how
                              people thought about the city.8



                         
                              7Steven J. Ross, Workers on the
                                        Edge: Work, Leisure, and Politics in Industrializing
                                   Cincinnati
                                   , 1788-1890 (New York
                                   , 1985), 3, 18,
                                   23.
                              8Zane L. Miller, Boss
                                   Cox's Cincinnati
                                   : Urban Politics in the Progressive
                                        Era (New York
                                   , 1968); Suburb: Neighborhood
                                        and Community in Forest Park
                                        , Ohio, 1935-1976
                                   (Knoxville
                                   , Tenn.
                                   , 1981); Changing Plans for
                                        America's Inner Cities: Cincinnati
                                        's
                                        Over-the-Rhine and Twentieth-Century Urbanism
                                   (Columbus
                                   , Ohio
                                   , 1998).
                         

                         

                         Miller would have had a dominant influence on Cincinnati
                              histori-
                              ography solely as a scholar, but his role as teacher and mentor at the
                              University of Cincinnati has greatly broadened that influence. Over
                              the course of thirty-some years, Miller directed a host of
                              dissertations, most of them on the twentieth century, and many of them
                              addressing his favorite issues: housing, planning, and
                              suburbanization. Robert B. Fairbanks' Making
                                   Better Citizens: Housing Reform and the Community Development
                                   Strategy in Cincinnati
                                   , 1890-1960 (1988) is one result of
                              that mentorship; more recently, his students published Making Sense of the City: Local Government, Civic Culture, and
                                   Community Life in Urban America (2001), a festschrift in
                              honor of Miller edited by Fairbanks and Patricia Mooney-Melvin.
                              Following Miller's lead, most of his students exhibited deep
                              interest in shifting ideas about the city, especially as expressed in
                              how Cincinnatians planned for the future. Wade's influence in
                              this body of work comes not through the specific message of The Urban Frontier, but in the general principles
                              of scholarly excellence Wade taught Miller through their life-long
                                   relationship.9
                         The most recent monographic treatment of Cincinnati
                              history is Nikki M.
                              Taylor's Frontiers of Freedom:
                                   Cincinnati
                                   's Black Community, 1802-1868 (2005).10 Tellingly, Taylor takes Wade's
                              argument as a given. The book begins in 1802, and in Taylor's
                              depiction Cincinnati
                              appears to be a city already, born with the
                              original sins of its mixed parentage--a racial code reflective of the
                              South, the racial segregation common of the North, and the violence
                              one would expect to find in the West. The urban qualities in
                              Taylor's Cincinnati
                              are very similar to Wade's. It
                              has an increasingly diverse population and the concomitant conflict.
                              Like Wade, Taylor searches for success in the growth of cultural
                              institutions, especially churches and schools. Taylor's and
                              Wade's books, written nearly fifty years apart, have so much
                              in common that we are reminded of just how prescient Wade really was.
                              The once iconoclastic Urban Frontier has become
                              received wisdom.

                         
                              9Robert B. Fairbanks, Making
                                        Better Citizens: Housing Reform and the Community
                                        Development Strategy in Cincinnati
                                        , 1890-1960 (Urbana
                                   ,
                                   Ill.
                                   , 1988); Robert B. Fairbanks and Patricia Mooney-Melvin,
                                   eds., Making Sense of the City: Local Government,
                                        Civic Culture, and Community Life in Urban America
                                   (Columbus
                                   , Ohio, 2001).
                              10Nikki M. Taylor, Frontiers of
                                   Freedom: Cincinnati
                                   's Black Community,
                                   1802-1868 (Athens
                                   , Ohio, 2005).
                         

                         

                         Taylor's book may also point to an agenda for the future:
                              historians should investigate the mixed parentage of the young
                              Cincinnati
                              . In what way was Cincinnati
                              a southern city when most of
                              its residents came from the mid-Atlantic? How was it a northern city
                              at the same time, when it so clearly looked south for profit and west
                              to its future? How long could Cincinnati
                              remain western as it watched
                              the frontier move farther and farther away? Most important: how did
                              all these connections to places distant--and the many more connections
                              that tied the young city to the Miami and Licking valleys--make
                              Cincinnati the Queen City of a new American region, the Ohio Valley?
                              This agenda replicates Turner's professional trajectory from
                              the study of the frontier to the issue of regions in American history,
                              but it is also represents a logical next step--a very tardy next
                              step--leading from Wade's groundbreaking work. Wade put
                              cities on the frontier, where they belonged. Historians must now tell
                              us more about how young cities like Cincinnati helped create the
                              regions in which they grew.
                    
               
               
               
                    Louisville
                         :  An Intellectual Journey with Richard C. Wade
                    CARL E. KRAMER
                    F or more than two centuries, Louisville
                         has been the
                         center of a metropolitan region that embraces much of north-central
                         Kentucky
                         and southern Indiana
                         . Today it is a primary source of employment,
                         shopping, information, and entertainment for more than one million resi-
                         dents. But when I was growing up in Speed, Indiana
                         , during the 1950s and
                         early 1960s, Louisiana
                         seemed a distant and exotic place, even though it
                         was a mere ten miles to the south. Moreover, Speed
                         was owned lock, stock,
                         and barrel until 1955 by the Louisville
                         Cement Company, my
                         father's employer and the community's largest business.
                         But I was oblivious to Louisville
                         's importance in the American
                         urban network and was completely unaware of Richard C. Wade's
                         thesis that "[t]he towns were the spearheads of the
                         frontier" when I studied history in college in the mid-1960s.1 During the next decade, however, Wade's
                         thesis would profoundly shape my professional direction, and the study of
                         the Louisville
                         would become the focus of my life's work. This
                         essay explores 
                              Carl E. Kramer is Director of the Institute for Local and Oral
                                   History at Indiana University Southeast, New Albany
                                   . His most
                                   recent book is This Place We Call Home: A History of
                                        Clark County
                                        , Indiana
                                    (2007).
                              1Richard C. Wade, The Urban
                                        Frontier: The Rise of Western Cities, 1790-1830
                                   (Cambridge
                                   , Mass.
                                   , 1959), 1.
                         
                          Wade's understanding of
                         cities--and of Louisville
                         in particular--in light of that personal
                         journey.
                    My intellectual introduction to Wade occurred during 1968-1970, when I was a
                         teacher intern at two elementary schools on Chicago
                         's South Side.
                         I was only a few months into my internship when I realized that I lacked
                         the temperament for elementary teaching. But as a small-town boy, I became
                         fascinated with the vigor of the big city--from the intrigues of its
                         machine politics and the hustle and bustle of the Loop to the
                         competitiveness of the city's newspapers and the ethnic, class,
                         and racial disparities among its neighborhoods. Captivated by the city and
                         aspiring to a career as a history professor, I decided to specialize in
                         urban history. During the balance of my stay in the Windy City, I devoted
                         most of my limited resources to the development of a library in urban
                         history.
                    Since Wade taught at the University of Chicago, The Urban
                              Frontier was among my early purchases. I cannot recall, however,
                         when I first read it. What I do remember is that Wade was a Chicago
                         Housing
                         Authority (CHA) commissioner and occasionally commented in the press about
                         its operations. As an aspiring urban historian, I was impressed that he
                         took a direct part in a challenging arena of public life, but as one who
                         worked every day in schools that served public housing complexes, I sensed
                         sharp contradictions between what Wade and other CHA officials said about
                         public housing conditions and what I witnessed in the neighborhood where I
                         taught. While my reaction no doubt reflected considerable youthful
                         naivete, the opportunity to temper intellectual inquiry with real-world
                         experience prompted a decision to pursue a second master's
                         degree in urban affairs before beginning doctoral studies.
                    The plan was to remain at Roosevelt University, where I was pursuing a
                         master's degree in urban education, and then, perhaps, to study
                         with Wade at the University of Chicago. But that plan changed in 1969 when
                         the political scientist Charles V. Hamilton and the sociologist St. Clair
                         Drake, two key members of Roosevelt's urban affairs faculty,
                         accepted positions at other universities.2 Instead, on
                         a trip home for Christmas in 1969, I learned of the University of
                         Louisville
                         's Urban Studies Center, which operated an
                         interdisciplinary master of science 
                              2Hamilton was co-author, with Stokely
                                   Carmichael, of Black Power: The Politics of
                                        Liberation in America (New York
                                   , 1967). Drake was
                                   co-author, with Horace Cayton, of Black
                                        Metropolis (New York
                                   , 1945).
                         
                          program in community development
                         oriented toward professionals in a broad range of organizations directly
                         involved in urban life. I enrolled for the fall of 1970 and soon accepted a
                         position as a population analyst with the U.S.
                         Census Bureau's
                         National Processing Center in Jeffersonville
                         , Indiana
                         .
                    During my first year at the university, I became acquainted with
                         Wade's thesis in an American urban history seminar taught by
                         Donald Martineau, a former student of Sam Bass Warner. Wade's 1958
                              American Historical Review article--in which he
                         first presented his thesis--and Martineau's lectures gave me a
                         deeper appreciation of the importance of early planning in shaping a
                         town's long-term development; the roles of merchants and
                         speculators as town builders; the involvement of commercial elites in
                         developing strategies to address emerging urban problems; the phenomenon
                         of urban imperialism in which towns promoted steamboats, canals, and other
                         transportation improvements to control their hinterlands; and the early
                         emergence of sharp social class divisions as economic specialization and
                         population growth eroded ties of neighborliness and community.3
                    But these arguments were still largely conceptual until early 1971, when I
                         joined the Louisville
                         and Jefferson County Planning Commission as a
                         research planner. My first major assignment was to develop growth
                         projections for a population report then in progress as an element of a new
                         comprehensive plan. It was a challenge for a novice historian and planner
                         whose experience in demography was limited to a brief stint with the Census
                         Bureau. Nevertheless, the assignment went well, and my director asked me to
                         rewrite a section on recent trends that he had written before my
                              arrival.4
                    Our projections proved woefully inaccurate, because our demographic
                         assumptions did not anticipate the sharp decline in fertility during the
                         early 1970s. The experience, however, strongly influenced my professional
                         course. In preparing the projections, I had extrapolated recent growth
                         patterns based on current subdivision filings. But as I probed more deeply,
                         I discovered a paucity of scholarly research that 
                              3Richard C. Wade, "Urban Life in
                                   Western America, 1790-1830," American
                                        Historical Review, 64 (October 1958), 14-30.
                              4Richard Shogren and Carl E. Kramer, Population Report: Louisville
                                   and Jefferson County
                               (Louisville
                                   , Ky., 1972).
                         
                         
                         
                              An 1819 broadside advertising an evening at the
                                   theater in Louisville
                                   . Wade emphasized the importance of culture
                                   for the growth of frontier cities. Filson Historical
                                   Society
                         
                          might have given me a better
                         understanding of Louisville
                         's historic urbanization patterns. By
                         the time I completed the report, I had resolved that helping to narrow that
                         gap would be a goal of my doctoral dissertation. Insights gained from
                         Wade's work would help shape that aspiration, though not in the
                         way I originally had anticipated.
                    As I read further in urban history, I developed an appreciation for the work
                         of Warner and Charles N. Glaab, both of whom shared with Wade a position at
                         the top of my list of prospective doctoral mentors. Wade and Warner
                         relocated during my application process, but Glaab, who was teaching at the
                         University of Toledo, accepted me and the History department offered a
                         teaching assistantship, beginning in the fall of 1972.
                    A full reading of The Urban Frontier in Glaab's
                         seminar significantly enhanced my comprehension of the urban development
                         process in general, and in the Louisville
                         region in particular. Having
                         spent nearly four years in urban education, community development, and
                         urban planning, I appreciated Wade's point that western cities
                         were economic entities. "A city is many things," he had
                         observed, "it is a cultural focus, a social resort, a political
                         center, but before all--but not above all--it is a place where people earn
                         a living."5 Wade's emphasis on
                         economics gave me a keener understanding of the Falls of the Ohio
                         as a
                         locus of town development, of the steamboat industry's role in
                         shaping the region's economic base, and of a lengthy canal
                         controversy as a manifestation of urban imperialism.
                    Over the next two years, I wrote several essays that explored in greater
                         depth many of the themes raised in The Urban Frontier.
                         Reflecting Glaab's interest in urban imagery and intellectual
                         attitudes towards cities, my work examined various observers'
                         images of and attitudes toward Louisville
                         and looked at facets of the
                         city's social and cultural life between 1800 and 1840. But much of
                         my analysis addressed themes Wade had discussed in The Urban
                              Frontier, including commercial development, demographic growth
                         and physical expansion, environmental and health issues, and the emergence
                         of social and cultural institutions.6
                  
                         5Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                              39.
                         6Carl E. Kramer, "Images of a Developing
                              City: Louisville
                              , 1800-1830," Filson Club
                                   History Quarterly, 52 (April 1978), 166-90; Kramer,
                              "City with a Vision: Images of Louisville
                              in the
                              1830s," Filson Club History Quarterly, 60
                              (October 1986), 427-52; Kramer, "The Texture of Urban Life:
                              Some Cultural Institutions of Louisville
                              in the 1830s," paper
                              presented at The

                    
                    
                    
                         The Enterprise was the first steamboat to travel
                              successfully from New Orleans
                              to the Falls of the Ohio in May 1815.
                              Steamboats revolutionized freight and passenger service to and from
                              frontier cities, including Louisville
                              . James T. Lloyd, Lloyds Steamboat Directory, and Disasters on the Western
                                   Waters (Cincinnati
                              , 1856)
                    


                    One of the most compelling aspects of Wade's account was his focus
                         on the centrality of the Ohio River
                         and the Falls of the Ohio in shaping
                         Louisville's economic growth and its aspirations for dominance of
                         Western commerce, especially as expressed in the development of the
                         steamboat industry and in the bitter rivalry among Louisville
                         , Cincinnati,
                         and Jeffersonville
                         over the location for a falls canal. In retrospect,
                         given Jeffersonville's eventual dominance of the region's
                         shipbuilding industry and the generations of rivalry between the two
                         cities over a succession of transportation improvements, Wade's
                         attention to the metropolitan aspect of Louisville
                         's development
                         was especially astute.
                    Similarly, Wade's discussion of urbanization through suburbaniza-
                         tion prompted me to analyze further Louisville
                         's expansion along
                         the 
                              Filson Club, Louisville
                                   , Kentucky, April 7, 1975. See also
                                   Charles N. Glaab, "The Historian and the Urban
                                   Tradition," in A. S. Eisenstadt, ed., The
                                   Craft of American History, (2 vols.; New York
                                   , 1966),
                                   2: 35-55; and Glaab, ed., The American City: A
                                   Documentary History (Homewood
                                   , Ill., 1963).
                         
                          river through the platting and
                         annexation of Preston's Enlargement on the east and
                         Campbell's Western Enlargement. These additions and the adjoining
                         town of Portland were focal points of land speculation during the second
                         decade of the nineteenth century, a phenomenon that underscored
                         Louisville
                         's participation in the reckless entrepreneurship that
                         culminated in the panic of 1819.7
                    Wade's examination of Louisville
                         's health problems, along
                         with Charles E. Rosenberg's The Cholera Years
                         (1962), undergirded my analysis of the city's image as the
                         "Graveyard of the Ohio." Reflecting the prevailing
                         "miasmatic theory" of disease, contemporary observers
                         such as Dr. Henry McMurtrie and editor Shadrack Penn had rejected notions
                         of contagion, but they urged officials to institute public health measures,
                         including establishment of a board of health, construction of sewers, and
                         drainage of stagnant ponds that generated the "foul airs"
                         threatening the town's health and commercial aspirations.
                         Enthusiasm for such measures waxed and waned, but they improved public
                         health. In elucidating the importance of environmental factors as a
                         source of Louisville
                         's health problems, Wade shed light on the
                         origin of drainage problems that persist into the twenty-first century.8
                    Wade devoted two chapters to the evolution of social and cultural
                         institutions--including churches, schools, libraries, theaters, newspa-
                         pers, and taverns--and their importance in promoting a sense of community
                         and urbanity in emerging Ohio valley towns. With respect to Louisville, he
                         noted the creation of an early library company, Samuel Drake's
                         theater, and the Lancastrian-based public school system, and he cited John
                         James Audubon's struggle to obtain patrons for his ornitho-
                         logical art. He also mentioned the formation of early houses of worship and
                         often cited Penn's Louisville
                              Public Advertiser,
                         the first important local newspaper. While such institutions were
                         rudimentary and often ephemeral, they gradually transformed
                         Louisville
                         's image from a place known mainly for gambling and
                         drinking in 1800 to one characterized by more genteel pursuits by 1830.9



                    
                         7Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                              305-307; Kramer, "Images of a Developing City,"
                              167-70.
                         8Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                              297-303; Kramer, "Images of a Developing City,"
                              183-87; Charles E. Rosenberg, The Cholera Years
                              (Chicago
                              , 1962); Henry McMurtrie, Sketches of
                                   Louisville
                               (Louisville
                              , Ky., 1819), 146-52.
                         9Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                              129-57, 231-69, 317-19; Kramer, "Images of a Developing
                              City," 186-89.
                    

                    
                    Paradoxically, in the light of my planned dissertation topic, one theme in
                              The Urban Frontier that I had not written on was the
                         dynamics of the urbanization process, especially the mechanics of land
                         development. Moreover, in an early paper, I repeated one of
                         Wade's few notable errors. In his first chapter, he lamented the
                         sale of land between the Ohio River and Main Street and a 180-foot strip
                         between Jefferson and Green (Liberty) Streets, which were designated as
                         public space on a 1779 plan attributed to Louisville
                         's founder,
                         General George Rogers Clark. According to nineteenth-century historian
                         Reuben T. Durrett, the city was forced to sell this public land to satisfy
                         a debt owned by speculator John Connolly to his former partner, John
                         Campbell, depriving the city of income from the property.10
                    Because of Durrett's prominence as a founder of the Filson Club,
                         generations of scholars, including John W. Reps and A. E. J. Morris,
                         accepted his explanation for the demise of the public space. Then in the
                         1970s, local historians Samuel W. Thomas and George H. Yater discovered
                         that the so-called Clark map was a fraud perpetrated by Durrett. Further
                         research identified no definitive connection between the sale of lots to
                         satisfy Connolly's debt and the loss of Louisville
                         's
                         so-called public space.11
                    An opportunity to correct my error and to refocus on the urbanization
                         process came in 1976, when the Louisville
                         Historic Landmarks and
                         Preservation Districts Commission engaged me to prepare the historical
                         development section of an architectural and historical resources survey of
                         central and southern Louisville
                         . Soon thereafter, Thomas and Yater alerted
                         me to Durrett's fraud and I produced the first scholarly explana-
                         tion of the city's early planning process.12
                    I continued to analyze the study area's growth by examining the
                         interaction of community leadership goals, economic development,
                         technological innovation, demographic forces, land subdivision 
                         
                              10Wade, The Urban
                              Frontier, 16; Reuben T. Durrett, "Louisville
                                   under
                                   Virginia
                                   Trustees," in Memorial History of
                                        Louisville
                                   , J. Stoddard Johnston, ed. (2 vols.;
                                   Chicago
                                   , c. 1896), 1: 53-54.
                              11Carl E. Kramer, "The
                                   City-Building Process: Urbanization in Central and Southern
                                   Louisville
                                   , 1772-1932" (Ph.D. dissertation, University
                                   of Toledo, 1980), 71-72; John W Reps, The Making of
                                        Urban America: A History of City Planning in the United States
                                    (Princeton
                                   , N.J., 1965), 212-14; A. E. J.
                                   Morris, History of Urban Form: Before the Industrial
                                   Revolution, 2nd ed. (New York
                                   , 1979), 276; Samuel W.
                                   Thomas, ed., Views of Louisville
                                        since 1766
                                   (Louisville
                                   , Ky.
                                   , 1971), 251.
                              12Carl E. Kramer, "Two Centuries of
                                   Urban Development in Central and Southern Louisville
                                   ,"
                                   in Louisville
                                        Survey: Central and South Report
                                   (Louisville
                                   , Ky.
                                   , 1978), 30-365.
                         
                          practices, and changing architectural
                         styles. I focused particularly upon how these forces promoted the
                         development of neighborhoods and other functional areas. Mirroring
                         Wade's emphasis on the role of town plats in shaping urban growth,
                         one of my key databases consisted of more than 550 subdivision plats for
                         the study area. After completing the Central and South
                         Report, I conducted a similar study of eastern Louisville
                         , which
                         was completed in 1978. These reports provided context for over a dozen
                         National Register of Historic Places district nominations and helped a
                         host of neighborhood organizations to more fully understand the origins and
                         development of their neighborhoods.13
                    Upon finishing the eastern Louisville
                         report, I expanded the Central and
                         South Report into my 1980 dissertation, "The City-Building
                         Process: Urbanization in Central and Southern Louisville
                         ,
                         1772-1932." Incorporating concepts developed by Roy Lubove, Roger
                         D. Simon, and Allan R. Pred, along with those of Wade, Warner, and Glaab,
                         it fleshed out and extended major themes addressed in my earlier essays and
                         explored in much greater depth the dynamics of land development, especially
                         the transformation of the residential subdivision process from one that was
                         chaotic, unregulated, and dominated by private individuals in the early
                         nineteenth century into a business conducted by full-time real estate
                         developers and regulated by public agencies at the onset of the Great
                         Depression.
                    After receiving my doctorate in 1980, business obligations kept me from
                         revising my dissertation into a book, but during the next few years I wrote
                         a history of the Victorian-era Old Louisville
                         district; delivered a paper
                         on the evolution of Louisville
                         's subdivision process; wrote an
                         interpretative essay on the Olmsted company's work in the
                         Louisville
                         region; and published an article on the city's urban
                         planning movement. All of them expanded portions of my dissertation and
                         extended concepts that I had learned from Wade's analysis of early
                         Louisville
                         .14

                    
                         13Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                              27-29.
                         14Carl E. Kramer, Old Louisville
                              : A
                              Changing View (Louisville
                              , Ky.
                              , 1982); Kramer, "The
                              Evolution of the Land Subdivision Process in Louisville
                              , Kentucky
                              ,
                              1772-1980," delivered at the Canadian-American Urban
                              Development Conference, University of Guelph, Ontario
                              , Canada, August
                              1982; Kramer, "Frederick Law Olmsted and His 
                              Louisville
                              Legacy," in Louisville
                                   's Olmstedian
                                   Legacy: An Interpretive Analysis and Documentary Inventory,
                              Carl E. Kramer et al., eds., (Louisville
                              , Ky.
                              , 1988); Kramer,
                              "James C. Murphy and the Urban Planning Movement in
                              Louisville
                              , 1901-1934," Filson Club History
                                   Quarterly, 64 (July 1990), 317-59.
                    

                    

                    Ironically, for a city which has a very strong consciousness of its own
                         history, Louisville
                         has been the subject of few books or monographs along
                         the trails blazed by Richard Wade. Yater, Thomas, and others have generated
                         a substantial body of neighborhood and institutional history, and
                         Yater's Two Hundred Years at the Falls of the Ohio
                              : A
                              History of Louisville
                              and Jefferson County
                          (1979) remains the
                         city's most comprehensive biography.15 But
                         such works tend to be more descriptive than analytical.
                    Nevertheless, some notable works have appeared. In Rail Routes
                         South: Louisville
                         's Fight for the Southern Market,
                              1865-1872 (1969), Leonard P. Curry illumined the city's
                         use of the Louisville
                         & Nashville Railroad in its rivalry with
                         Cincinnati
                         for control of their southern hinterland. Although brief and
                         largely derivative, Allen J. Share's Cities in the
                              Commonwealth: Two Centuries of Urban Life in Kentucky
                          (1982) sum-
                         marizes major themes including urban imperialism and rivalry, visions of
                         metropolitan expansion, race relations, and cultural institutions as they
                         pertain to Louisville
                         and other Kentucky
                         cities. Slavery and race
                         relations, another area in which Wade made a significant contribution, have
                         been perhaps the most fruitful topics of research. J. Blaine Hudson
                         explores the roles of Louisville
                         's free black community in the
                         Underground Railroad in Fugitive Slaves and the Underground
                              Railroad in the Kentucky
                              Borderland (2002). George C.
                         Wright's Life Behind a Veil: Blacks in Louisville
                              ,
                              Kentucky
                              , 1865-1930 (1985) examines the development of black
                         institutional life within the context of Louisville
                         's tradition
                         of "polite racism." Catherine A. Fosl's Subversive Southerner: Anne Braden and the Struggle for
                              Racial Justice in the Cold War South (2006) narrates a radical
                         white woman's involvement in the civil rights movement in
                         Louisville
                         and the Commonwealth.16
                    The reason for the relative dearth of published professional scholarship on
                         the city is unclear. But I suspect it stems from the lack of a 
                              15George H. Yater, Two Hundred
                                   Years at the Falls of the Ohio
                                   : A History of Louisville
                                   and
                                   Jefferson County
                               (Louisville
                                   , Ky., 1979).
                              16Leonard P. Curry, Rail Routes
                                   South: Louisville
                                   's Fight for the Southern Market,
                                   1865-1872 (Lexington
                                   , Ky.
                                   , 1969); Allen J. Share, Cities in the Commonwealth (Lexington
                                   , Ky.,
                                   1982); J. Blaine Hudson, Fugitive Slaves and the
                                        Underground Railroad in the Kentucky
                                        Borderland
                                   (Jefferson
                                   , N. C.
                                   , 2002); George C. Wright, Life
                                        Behind a Veil: Blacks in Louisville
                                        , 1865-1930 (Baton
                                        Rouge
                                   , La.
                                   , 1985); and Catherine A. Fosl, Subversive
                                        Southerner: Anne Braden and the Struggle for Racial Justice
                                        in the Cold War South (Lexington
                                   , Ky., 2006).
                         
                         
                         
                              The Louisville
                                   and Portland Canal was built in 1830
                                   so that boats could bypass the Falls of the Ohio
                                   . Like many other
                                   canals, it became increasingly out-of-date as steamboats and then
                                   railroads dominated western transportation.
                                   The American Journal of Science and Arts (New Haven
                                   , Conn., 1828)
                         
                          doctoral program in history at the
                         University of Louisville and the absence of an urban historian who focuses
                         on Louisville
                         and its development. It is a different story, however, for
                         the larger regional context of Kentucky
                         and southern Indiana
                         . In
                         researching my book This Place We Call Home: A History of
                              Clark County
                              , Indiana
                          (2007), I benefitted from recent
                         scholarship on the Ohio Valley frontier that reflects the influence of Wade
                         and of Richard White, who characterizes the vast region between the 
                         Great Lakes and the Ohio River
                         as a "middle ground" on which
                         Indians and whites "carried on relationships and attempted to
                         accommodate their differences not as representatives of large political
                         units such as tribes or nations but as individuals or small
                              groups."17
                    White's influence is reflected in numerous subsequent studies.
                         Stephen Aron's How the West Was Lost: The
                              Transformation of Kentucky
                              from Daniel Boone to Henry Clay (1996)
                         vividly portrays the multi-layered competition between European and
                         Indian cultures for control of game and land that set the context for
                         Euro-American settlement on both sides of the Falls of the Ohio. This theme
                         of cultural complexity was reinforced and extended in works by Andrew
                         Cayton, Elizabeth Perkins, and Nicole Etcheson. Although Aron and Perkins
                         stressed developments on the south side of the Ohio while Cayton and
                         Etcheson focused on the north side, my analysis of events at the Falls of
                         the Ohio made it clear that the southern border of White's middle
                         ground was porous from the outset. Kim M. Gruenwald's River of Enterprise: The Commercial Origins of Regional Identity in
                              the Ohio Valley, 1790-1850 (2002) was not yet available when I
                         wrote my initial chapters, but her argument that the Ohio River
                         was a force
                         for regional unity in the "Western Country" is consistent
                         with my own findings.18
                    Wade's influence is even more apparent in comparative studies of
                         Ohio Valley and midwestern cities by Darrel Bigham, Timothy Mahoney, 
                              17Carl E. Kramer, photographic ed. Mary
                                   Kagin Kramer, This Place We Call Home: A History of
                                        Clark County
                                        , Indiana
                                    (Bloomington
                                   , Ind., 2007);
                                   Richard White, The Middle Ground: Indians, Empires,
                                        and Republics in the Great Lakes
                                        Region, 1650-1815
                                   (Cambridge
                                   , U.K., 1986), ix.
                              18Stephen Aron, How the West
                                   Was Lost: The Transformation of Kentucky
                                   from Daniel Boone
                                   to Henry Clay (Baltimore
                                   , Md.
                                   , 1996); Andrew R. L.
                                   Cayton, Frontier Indiana (Bloomington
                                   , Ind.,
                                   1996); Elizabeth Perkins, Border Life: Experience
                                        and Memory in the Revolutionary Ohio Valley 
                                   (Chapel Hill
                                   , N. C., 1998); Nicole Etcheson, The Emerging
                                        Midwest: Upland Southerners and the Political Culture of the
                                        Old Northwest, 1787-1861 (Bloomington
                                   , Ind., 1996);
                                   Kramer, This Place We Call Home, 8-9; Kim M.
                                   Gruenwald, River of Enterprise: The Commercial
                                        Origins of Regional Identity in the Ohio Valley,
                                        1790-1850 (Bloomington
                                   , Ind., 2002).
                         
                          and Jon Teaford, all of which were
                         invaluable in my study of Clark County
                         . In Towns and Villages
                              of the Lower Ohio (1998), Bigham applies Wade's
                         analytical framework to smaller Ohio Valley towns to explain why mid-sized
                         cities such as 
                         Evansville
                         , Owensboro
                         , and Paducah
                         triumphed over
                         prospective rivals such as Troy
                         , Metropolis
                         , and Cairo. Mahoney's
                              River Towns in the Great West: The Structure of
                              Provincial Urbanization in the American Midwest, 1820-1870 (1990)
                         does much the same thing for the cities of the Missouri River valley during
                         the mid-nineteenth century, and Teaford's Cities of
                              the Heartland: The Rise and Fall of the Industrial Midwest (1993)
                         explains the triumph of large urban centers such as 
                         Chicago
                         , Detroit,
                         Cleveland
                         , Indianapolis
                         , and Milwaukee
                         over places such as Zanesville
                         ,
                         Ohio
                         ; Madison
                         and New Albany
                         , Indiana; and Quincy
                         and Peoria, Illinois
                         , and
                         the region's economic decline during the middle and late
                         twentieth century.19
                    Finally, although it does not address Louisville
                         , William Cronon's
                         Nature's Metropolis: Chicago
                              and the Great
                              West (1991) corrects what I consider Wade's major
                         conceptual weakness--the notion that "by 1830 the West had
                         produced two types of society--one rural and one urban." Certainly
                         both city and country developed distinctive characteristics, and Wade
                         grants the economic and cultural influences each exercised over the other.
                         But he never really demonstrates such connections, tending instead to
                         depict city and country as opposite ends of a spectrum. In contrast,
                         Cronon's analysis of the railroad, grain, meat, and lumber
                         industries reveals powerful symbiotic relationships between city and
                         country and the ways they shaped both urban and rural landscapes. Cronon
                         has caused me to rethink my own work in agribusiness history. How, for
                         example, did the Bourbon Stock Yards, which shaped Louisville
                         's
                         Butchertown neighborhood, affect the landscape of the counties that
                         supplied the livestock sold there and processed by nearby packing plants?
                         How does this apply, by analogy, to the region's distilling,
                         brewing, and tobacco industries? These questions remain to be resolved.20 As I near the end of my career, I hope that a new
                         generation of 
                              19Darrel E. Bigham, Towns and
                                   Villages of the Lower Ohio
                               (Lexington
                                   , Ky., 1998);
                                   Timothy R. Mahoney, River Towns in the Great West:
                                        The Structure of Provincial Urbanization in the American
                                        Midwest, 1820-1870 (New York
                                   , 1990); and Jon C.
                                   Teaford, Cities of the Heartland: The Rise and Fall
                                   of the Industrial Midwest (Bloomington
                                   , Ind.,
                                   1993).
                              20William Cronon, Nature's Metropolis: Chicago
                                   and the Great
                                   West (New York
                                   , 1991); Wade, The Urban
                                        Frontier, 341; Carl E. Kramer, Drovers,
                                        Dealers, and Dreamers: 150 Years at the Bourbon
                         
                          urban historians will tackle these and
                         many other questions raised by Richard C. Wade and those who followed him
                         as they apply to the Louisville region, and that their intellectual
                         encounter with this giant will be as challenging and as enriching as
                         mine.

                    
                         Stock Yard (Louisville
                              , Ky.
                              , 1994); Kramer, Pride in the Past, Faith
                              in the Future: A History of the Michigan Livestock Exchange, 1922-1997
                              (East Lansing
                              , Mich.
                              , 1997); Kramer, "It's
                              Gooo-od": The History of the E B. Purnell Sausage Company
                              (Jeffersonville
                              , Ind., 2005).
                    
               

               

               
                    The Double Life of St. Louis:  Narratives of Origins and Maturity in
                         Wade's Urban Frontier

                    ADAM ARENSON

                    As Richard C. Wade summed up The Urban
                              Frontier: The Rise of Western Cities, 1790-1830, his
                         groundbreaking study of western urban development, he found occasion to
                         quote William Carr Lane, St. Louis
                         's first mayor. In 1825, as Lane
                         pressed the city council for the adoption of new municipal policies, he
                         harkened back to an imagined past, a time when St. Louis
                         "was the
                         encamping ground of the solitary Indian trader." Envisioning an
                         origin story, Lane said that this first camp "became the depot and
                         residence of many traders, under the organization of a village, and now
                         you can see it rearing its crest in the attitude of an inspiring
                         city." Wade, reading across the history of Ohio
                         Valley cities,
                         could recognize Lane's "history" as the rhetoric
                         of a booster--and yet he delighted in what Lane's story revealed as
                         well as obscured about St. Louis
                         's history.1
                    Wade called Mayor Lane "the town's most popular and
                         powerful figure," and "the West's best student
                         of urban affairs."2 Such praise also 
                              Adam Arenson is Assistant Professor of History at the University
                                   of Texas at El Paso
                                   . His book The Cultural Civil
                                        War: St. Louis
                                        and the Failures of Manifest Destiny is
                                   forthcoming.
                              1Richard C. Wade, The Urban
                                        Frontier: The Rise of Western Cities, 1790-1830
                                   (Cambridge
                                   , Mass.
                                   , 1959), 270, quoting Lane, St. Louis
                                   , Minutes,
                                   April 28, 1825, William Carr Lane Papers, Missouri
                                   Historical
                                   Society, St. Louis
                                   .
                              2Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                                   277, 270.
                         
                         
                         
                              William Carr Lane, the first mayor of St. Louis
                                   .
                                   Lane's early boosterism was, by the end of his life,
                                   darkened by the politics of slavery, abolition, and civil
                                   war. Courtesy of Encyclopedia Dickinsonia,
                                   http://chronicles. dickinson.edu/encyclo/
                          described Richard Wade himself, a genial leader for the community
                         of urban historians. His books, essays, teaching, and mentorship provided a
                         blueprint for the development of the study of the city in the United States
                         .3 In The Urban Frontier,
                         Wade established key precedents, transferring the methods of his mentor,
                         Arthur Schlesinger Sr., and those of colonial historian Carl Bridenbaugh
                         from the study of the established 
                              3Among the appreciations of Wade's
                                   work are Carl Abbott, "Review of Richard C. Wade, The Urban Frontier: The Rise of Western Cities,
                                        1790-1830," for H-Urban, H-Net
                                        Reviews (April 1997) at http://www.h-net.org/reviews/;
                                   Timothy R. Mahoney, David Hamer, and Edward K. Muller,
                                   "Wade and Urban History," Urban
                                        History Newsletter, 13 (March 1995) 1, 13; Zane L.
                                   Miller, "Introduction," in The
                                        Urban Frontier: The Rise of Western Cities, 1790-1830
                                   (Urbana
                                   , Ill.
                                   , 1996), xi-xx. I was privileged to meet Professor
                                   Wade at his last public appearance, at the Seminar on the City at
                                   Columbia University in November 2005, as arranged by Kenneth
                                   Jackson, and to discuss my work with him then.
                         
                          eastern seaboard cities to the
                         recovery of the history of cities in the American West.4
                    Demurring from Lane's story, Wade insisted that "[t]he
                         towns were the spearheads of the frontier," as he wrote in his
                         book's justly famous first line. "Planted far in advance
                         of the line of settlement," he continued, "they held
                         the West for the approaching population."5
                         Displaying a careful and lucid style, Wade's work
                         re-conceptualized the frontier as an urban and cosmopolitan space, and his
                         innovative comparative methods shaped the conduct of urban history for
                         generations. A half-century on, we can appreciate the foundational
                         significance of The Urban Frontier, even while
                         recognizing how methodological advances and a widening, transcultural
                         perspective have altered the details of this frontier urban history.
                    In the case of St. Louis
                         , the intervening decades have revealed a double life
                         of the city, a history of origins and maturity in competition with that
                         portrayed in The Urban Frontier. Yes, in 1830 
                         St. Louis
                         was a fledgling city of the United States
                         , carefully balancing economic and
                         political ties from the fur-trade fringes to the centers of American power,
                         its regional influence assured. But the city's successes were
                         still shaped by the patterns of its previous French and Spanish colonial
                         rule, embodied in the accents and customs of the city's
                         elite.
                    And--more so than for the other Ohio Valley cities considered in
                         Wade's study--the progress of St. Louis
                         to 1830 was mere prelude,
                         as the geography of slavery and freedom and the acquisition of lands
                         further west brought transformative success and then lasting frustration to
                         the city's ambitions. Wade praised the city that William Carr Lane
                         envisioned as of 1825; by the end of Lane's long life, however,
                         the criticism that he volleyed at his once-loved city revealed how St. Louis
                         had been fundamentally changed by its place at the intersection of
                         slavery politics and westward expansion, the center of the cultural Civil
                              War.6



                    
                         4See Arthur Meier Schlesinger, The
                         Rise of the City, 1878-1898 (New York
                              , 1933); Carl
                              Bridenbaugh, Cities in the Wilderness: The First Century
                                   of Urban Life in America
                                   , 1625-1742 (New York
                              , 1938); and
                              Bridenbaugh, Cities in Revolt: Urban Life in America
                                   ,
                                   1743-1776 (New York
                              , 1955). For comments on these
                              connections, see Abbott, "Review of Richard C.
                              Wade"; Miller, "Introduction,"
                              xii-xvi.
                         5Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                              1.
                         6Adam Arenson, "City of Manifest
                              Destiny: St. Louis
                              and the Cultural Civil War, 1848-1877"
                              (Ph.D. diss., Yale University, 2008).
                    

                    

                    "The story of Western urbanism begins . . . not where one might
                         expect," Wade mused, as he introduced the origins of 
                         St. Louis
                         .
                         Founded when a French merchant company laid out streets "a
                         thousand miles through the wilderness," 
                         St. Louis
                         was a somewhat
                         uneasy fit with the other Ohio
                         Valley cities that Wade investigated--cities
                         with more uniform stories of founding and transformation along the 
                         United States'
                         western frontier.7
                    Through his research, Wade demonstrated the fallacy of Frederick Jackson
                         Turner's frontier thesis. Solitary men creating clearings in the
                         woods were not the vanguard of American civilization, as Turner had
                              claimed.8 Wade's analysis of urban
                         development foreshadowed the work of "new western
                         history" scholars, who would utilize a regional focus but reject
                         Turner's teleology completely.9 Yet while Wade
                         inverted the order of Turner's frontier progression, he ultimately
                         preserved the same basic directional and national orientation, looking west
                         at North America from the British colonies of the Atlantic
                         seaboard.
                    French planners did not found St. Louis
                         as a "western"
                         outpost per se; they saw it more as the northernmost city of the 
                         Caribbean,
                         vital to their imperial concerns in North America after the loss of 
                         Quebec
                         in the Seven Years' War.10 The city site was
                         on a high bluff, above the Mississippi River
                         's flood stage, and
                         near the confluence with the Missouri River
                         . Its location on the western
                         bank, in the Louisiana Territory, was politically valuable but more
                         incidental than intentional. 
                              7Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                                   2-3, 1. Miller, "Introduction," p. xvi,
                                   describes the comparative pairings among the five
                                   cities--"four situated on a major river and one
                                   (Lexington
                                   ) not ... three 'slave' cities
                                   (Lexington
                                   , Louisville
                                   , and St. Louis
                                   ) with two
                                   'free' cities (Pittsburgh
                                   and
                                   Cincinnati
                                   )"--though Pennsylvania
                                   's 1780
                                   emancipation law did not end slavery there until 1808. In my
                                   correspondence with Miller, this was his, rather than
                                   Wade's, account of how these cities were chosen for
                                   research. Wade merely called them "six intolerably warm
                                   summer in Ohio valley cities," Miller, e-mail
                                   correspondence with the author, August 2008; Wade, The Urban Frontier, x.
                              8Frederick Jackson Turner, "The
                                   Significance of the Frontier in American History," Report of the American Historical Association
                                   (1893).
                              9For new western histories of the region,
                                   see Patricia Nelson Limerick, The Legacy of
                                   Conquest: The Unbroken Past of the American West (
                                   New York
                                   , 1987); Richard White, "It's
                                        Your Misfortune and None of My Own": A History of
                                        the American West (
                                   Norman
                                   , Ok., 1991). Miller,
                                   "Introduction," p. xx, argued that
                                   Wade's approach was neither exceptionalist nor
                                   regionalist, but I consider the processes he described more
                                   specific to the time and place described.
                              10Arenson, "City of Manifest
                                   Destiny," chap. 1.
                         
                          Wade had noted that "it was
                         in the context of imperial rivalry that such Western cities as 
                         St. Louis
                         and Pittsburgh
                         had their origins," but then he moved quickly to
                         consider the cities' acquisition by the United States
                         , making the
                         international origins inconsequential.11
                    William Carr Lane was born in Philadelphia
                         in 1789 and had only been in St. Louis
                         eight years when he defeated Auguste Chouteau, one of the
                         city's founders, in the first mayoral race.12
                         When Wade dismissed the founding French traders in favor of
                         English-speaking leaders like Lane, he privileged one narrative of the
                         city's origins over another. In contrast, historian Jay Gitlin has
                         painted a convincing portrait of St. Louis
                         at the center of a
                         French-speaking "bourgeois frontier."13 Even the earliest French nickname for the town--Pain Court, or "little bread"--denoted pride
                         for a settlement dedicated to commercial pursuits rather than farming,
                         fur-trade historian J. Frederick Fausz has argued.14 In
                         his book, Gitlin traces how the Chouteaus continued to be St. Louis
                         's most powerful commercial and cultural brokers for
                         generations after U.S.
                         acquisition, essential both to extending trade
                         networks across the continent and to shaping civic improvement. Their
                         representatives negotiated and traded from Detroit
                         to New Orleans
                         , into the
                         lakes of Minnesota
                         , out to the Green River rendezvous in 
                         Colorado, and down
                         the Santa Fe Trail into 
                         New Mexico
                         --all the while remaining key players in
                         the streets and on the wharves of St. Louis
                         .15
                    
                    
                         11Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                              1-13, quote p. 2.
                         12For a biographical sketch of Lane, see Krista
                              Camenzind, "William Carr Lane," in Dictionary of Missouri
                                   Biography, ed. Lawrence O.
                              Christensen (Columbia
                              , Mo.
                              , 1999), 471-72.
                         13Jay Gitlin, The Bourgeois
                                   Frontier: French Towns in Mid-America and the Course of Westward
                                   Expansion, 1763 to 1863 (New Haven
                              , Conn.
                              , 2009). On
                              competing narratives in the city's history, Arenson,
                              "City of Manifest Destiny"; Jay Gitlin,
                              "'Avec Bien Du Regret': The Americanization
                              of Creole St. Louis
                              ," Gateway Heritage, 9
                              no. 4 (1989), 2-11. Wade does mention the continuing dominance of
                              St. Louis
                              in the fur trade and into the Southwest--citing Frederick
                              Jackson Turner's later work, The Rise of the New
                                   West, 1819-1829 (1906). Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 190 n68.
                         14J. Frederick Fausz, "The
                              'Accredited Ascendancy' of Auguste Chouteau:
                              Creating the Image of the Fur Trader as City Founder," speech
                              at the "Frontier Cities" conference, 
                              St. Louis
                              ,
                              March 2008. Fausz is preparing a new translation of the Fragment of Col. Auguste Chouteau's Narrative of the
                                   Settlement of St. Louis
                              , first published in 1858.
                         15Gitlin, The Bourgeois
                                   Frontier; see also William E. Foley and C. David Rice, The First Chouteaus, River Barons of Early St. Louis
                                    (Urbana
                              , Ill.
                              , 1983); Shirley Christian, Before Lewis and Clark: The Story of the Chouteaus, the French
                                   Dynasty That Ruled America's Frontier (New York
                              ,
                              2004).
                    

                    
                    
                         The Chouteau Mansion, c. 1840. The Chouteau family
                              embodied St. Louis
                              's decades of change from a French trading
                              outpost to an American frontier city. Lithograph by J. C. Wild, from
                              Lyman Pierson Powell, Historic Towns of the Western
                                   States (1901)
                    

                    While Wade referenced the Chouteaus' records and John E
                         McDermott's pioneering history of the extensive French private
                         libraries of early St. Louis
                         , he did not consider the continuities between
                         these private holdings and the later, official records of the city and
                         its institutions--the property deeds and trade contracts written first in
                         French, then in a mixture of languages, and only decades later completely
                         in English, with reference to U.S.
                         laws and statutes.16
                         In part, these connections would have been obscure to Wade. Jennifer
                         Turner has argued that over the intervening centuries, the families of 
                         St. Louis
                         traders had felt compelled and then persuaded to abandon their French
                         identity and their often-intimate ties to American Indian nations in order
                         to demon- 
                              16Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 3-6; citations include John Francis McDermott, Private Libraries in Creole 
                                        St. Louis
                                   
                                   (Baltimore
                                   , Md.
                                   , 1938); and John Francis McDermott, ed., The Early Histories of 
                                        St. Louis
                                    (St. Louis,
                                   Mo.
                                   , 1952). For continuity in the city's print culture,
                                   see Eleanora A. Baer, "Books, Newspapers, and Libraries
                                   in Pioneer 
                                   St. Louis
                                   , 1808-1842," 
                                        Missouri
                                        Historical Review, 56 (July 1962), 347-60; and John
                                   Neal Hoover, "Books and Print Culture on 'The
                                   Confines of the Wilderness': New Findings and
                                   Questions," in "Frontier Cities", ed.
                                   Adam Arenson, Barbara Berglund, and Jay Gitlin
                                   (forthcoming).
                         
                          strate affinity with American notions
                         like whiteness.17 Later, according to Gitlin, French
                         heritage was reconfigured in romantic stories of Midwestern "local
                         color," at the moment when other white-ethnic immigrants--Irish,
                         German, Italian, or Eastern European--faced greater prejudice.18 By gazing west with American eyes onto the mlange
                         of French, Spanish, and American Indians in St. Louis
                         , Wade found his
                         starting point but not St. Louis
                         's origins.
                    More fundamental than the interplay of European interests in any of these
                         cities was the pre-existing American Indian geography. In discussing 
                         St. Louis
                         's origins, Wade casually referenced how the presence of
                         indigenous people meant "St. Louis
                         was regarded as a savage
                         place," one that "still had an Indian
                              problem."19 While perhaps understandable
                         given the depictions of American Indian history in the mid-twentieth
                         century, such a characterization is jarring to the modern reader. For each
                         of Wade's cities, "founding" was predicated on
                         local indigenous leaders accepting the establishment of a permanent
                         European settlement, and on continuing intercultural exchanges.20
                    By the time of St. Louis
                         's founding, the European importation of the
                         horse had transformed the indigenous geography of the region, and the
                         existing fur-trading network had ritualized European-Indian encounters.
                         Yet, even as Wade researched, archaeologists and ethnologists working
                         across the river from St. Louis
                         were completing excavations at the
                         Cahokia Mounds
                         , revealing how the site had been populated by tens of
                         thousands, making it the largest settlement north of 
                         Tenochtitln,
                         today's Mexico City.21 Thus, the region had
                         been a political 
                              17Jennifer Louise Turner, "From
                                   Savagery to Slavery: Upper 
                                   Louisiana and the American
                                   Nation" (Ph.D. diss., University of Wisconsin,
                                   2008).
                              18Jay Gitlin, "From Private Stories
                                   to Public Memory: The Chouteau Descendants of St. Louis
                                   and the
                                   Production of History," paper delivered at the Western
                                   History Association annual meeting, St. Louis
                                   , October 11,
                                   2006.
                              19Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 59. In the initial framing, Wade says settlement
                                   was delayed by "Indian hostility and British imperial
                                   policy," leaving the region "merely the haunt
                                   of Indian and animal." Ibid., 1, 2.
                              20Arenson, Berglund, and Gitlin, eds., Frontier Cities.
                              21Thomas E. Emerson and R. Barry Lewis, Cahokia and the Hinterlands: Middle Mississippian
                                   Cultures of the Midwest (Urbana
                                   , Ill.
                                   , 1991); William
                                   R. Iseminger, "Culture and Environment in the American
                                   Bottom: The Rise and Fall of Cahokia Mounds
                                   ," in Common Fields: An Environmental History of 
                                        St. Louis
                                   , ed. Andrew Hurley (St. Louis
                                   , Mo.
                                   , 1997), 38-57;
                                   Timothy R. Pauketat, The Ascent of Chiefs: 
                                        Cahokia
                                        and Mississippian Politics in Native North America
                                   (Tuscaloosa
                                   , Ala.
                                   , 1994). From the era of The Urban
                                        Frontier, see John Corcoran and Charles
                         
                          and economic crossroads centuries
                         before Europeans arrived. Even after Cahokia
                         's diminution, the
                         opportunities of the river confluences kept the region that would nurture
                         the city of St. Louis
                         at the forefront of indigenous politics.
                    As historians Kathleen DuVal and Heather Devine have described, American
                         Indian nations long maintained leverage over Euro-American traders in the
                         middle of the continent, with Osage leaders dominant in the 
                         Arkansas River
                         Valley and intermarried mtis controlling the upper 
                         Missouri River Valley
                         and Canada
                         .22 Wade's problematic phrases are
                         best replaced by historian Stephen Aron's more neutral terms:
                         those in St. Louis
                         oversaw the de-diversification of the region, from fluid
                         intercultural borderland into explicitly Indian-free U.S.
                         border
                              state.23 During the period Wade studied, political
                         delegations from American Indian nations regularly consulted with
                         Territorial Governor William Clark, dined in fur traders' homes,
                         and camped within the city limits.24 While
                         Wade's history offers the view west from the United States
                         into
                         his frontier cities, a history facing east and south, from the
                         perspective of these American Indian visitors, would be a worthy
                              project.25
                    If the origins of St. Louis
                         and other cities appear foreshortened in The Urban Frontier, Wade's ultimate claim,
                         that "any historical view 
                              van Ravenswaay, "The Diary of John Corcoran,"
                                   Missouri
                                        Historical Society Bulletin, 13
                                   (April 1957), 264-74; and John C. Ewers, "The Indian
                                   Trade of the Upper Missouri before Lewis and Clark: An
                                   Interpretation," Missouri
                                        Historical
                                        Society Bulletin, 10 (July 1954), 429-46.
                              22Heather Devine, The People
                                        Who Own Themselves: Aboriginal Ethnogenesis in a Canadian
                                        Family, 1660-1900 (Calgary, 2003); Kathleen DuVal, The Native Ground: Indians and Colonists in the
                                        Heart of the Continent (
                                   Philadelphia
                                   , Pa.
                                   , 2006). These
                                   reflect a local version of the processes described in Richard
                                   White, The Middle Ground: Indians, Empires, and
                                        Republics in the Great Lakes Region, 1650-1815
                                   (Cambridge
                                   , U.K., 1991).
                              23Stephen Aron, American
                                   Confluence: The Missouri
                                   Frontier from Borderland to Border
                                   State (Bloomington
                                   , Ind., 2006). Influencing Aron are
                                   Abraham P. Nasitir and John E Bannon, S. J.; for representative
                                   publications, see Nasatir, "The Shifting
                                   Borderlands," The Pacific Historical
                                        Review, 34 (February 1965), 1-20; Bannon,
                                   "Missouri
                                   , a Borderland," 
                                        Missouri
                                        Historical Review, 63 (January 1969), 227-47. See also
                                   Robert M. Morrissey, "Bottomlands, Borderlands: Empires
                                   and Identities in the 18th Century 
                                   Illinois Country"
                                   (Ph.D. diss., Yale University, 2007).
                              24On these instances, William E. Foley,
                                   "The Lewis and Clark Expedition's Silent
                                   Partners: The Chouteau Brothers of 
                                   St. Louis,"
                                   Missouri
                                        Historical Review, 77 (January 1983),
                                   131-46; and Katherine Lindsay Franciscus, "Social
                                   Customs of Old 
                                   St. Louis," 
                                   Missouri
                                        Historical Society Bulletin, 10 (January 1954), 156-66.
                                   See also Aron, American Confluence; Carolyn
                                   Gilman, Lewis and Clark: Across the Divide
                                   (Washington, D.C.
                                   , 2003); Gitlin, The Bourgeois
                                        Frontier.
                              25For a model, see Daniel K. Richter, Facing East from Indian Country: A Native History
                                        of Early America (Cambridge
                                   , Mass., 2001).
                         
                          which omits this [urban] dimension of
                         Western life tells but part of the story," can surely be
                              affirmed.26 Wade led the way in describing cities
                         as key protagonists in American history, utilizing the richness of public
                         pronouncements, newspapers, city directories, official municipal records,
                         and the archived papers of notable politicians and business- men.27 In generations since, those inspired by his work
                         have found more sources--court records, tax rolls, the built environment,
                         Census data, archaeological discoveries, even geographic information system
                         (GIS) analysis--to enrich our understanding of urban life and landscape.
                         These histories have often been less institutional and more experiential,
                         highlighting the sights, sounds, and smells of the urban landscape and
                         focusing on the illiterate, the poor, and those discriminated against as
                         much as on the educated, the established, and prosperous city
                         leaders.
                    "Commerce is the vital principle of the town," Mayor Lane
                         remarked in 1824. As Wade sought "a rough gauge of urban develop-
                         ment," he relied most often on the statistics of city business.28 In The Urban Frontier, 
                         St. Louis's
                         growth is measured in river tonnage handled, newspapers
                         started, and city ordinances passed--but not in the lives of the laborers
                         along the river or at the presses, or in investigating the fears behind
                         newly enacted regulations. Even though Wade's next book, Slavery in the Cities, considered the structure of
                         antebellum urban slavery, in The Urban Frontier he only
                         alludes to racial calculations underlying his businessmen's
                              profits.29 The wider networks of conflict and
                         cooperation between black and white workingmen that encircled the unique
                         form of slavery on the rivers and in 
                         St. Louis
                         have interested scholars
                         since, including Thomas Buchanan and Daniel Graff.30
                    
                    
                         26Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                              342.
                         27"From almost the very beginning there
                              was also an urban West," Wade wrote, and said he had written
                              its history "largely out of the newspapers, records, and
                              manuscripts of contemporaries, and as often as possible in their own
                              words." Ibid., v.
                         28Lane, 
                              St. Louis
                              Minutes, May 4, 1824, as quoted
                              in Wade, The Urban Frontier, 286; ibid., 251.
                         29Richard C. Wade, Slavery in the
                         Cities; the South, 1820-1860 (
                              New York
                              , 1964), especially
                              pp. 54-60.
                         30Thomas C. Buchanan, Black Life on
                              the Mississippi: Slaves, Free Blacks, and the Western Steamboat
                              World (
                              Chapel Hill
                              , N. C.
                              , 2004); and Daniel A. Graff,
                              "Forging an American 
                              St. Louis
                              : Labor, Race, and Citizenship
                              from the Louisiana Purchase to Dred Scott" (Ph.D. diss.,
                              University of Wisconsin-Madison, 2004).
                    

                    

                    
                         Mercantile Library Hall, 
                              St. Louis
                              , founded in 1846. As
                              the city and its leaders became prosperous, they built large homes,
                              schools, theaters, museums, libraries, and other indicators of culture.
                              Harper's Weekly, c. 1860
                    
                     As these cities grew, Wade wrote, business and political leaders
                         "turned increasingly to the cultivation of the good
                              life."31 Wade tracked the uneven
                         progress, up to 1830, of St. Louis
                         's schools and colleges, har-
                         bingers of the cultural and educational successes of the next decades. In
                         the early city, territorial governor William Clark had opened a museum with
                         artifacts from his expedition with Meriwether Lewis, and with further
                         tokens offered by visiting American Indian leaders.32 A
                         generation later, immigrant merchant Henry Shaw built an Italianate villa
                         surrounded by gardens in South 
                         St. Louis
                         . When he donated what are today
                         Tower Grove Park and the Missouri
                         Botanical Garden to the city, Shaw
                         provided sorely need green space--and the apogee of nineteenth-century
                         refinement for the built-up metropolis.33
                    
                         31Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                              202.
                         32John C. Ewers, "William
                              Clark's Indian Museum in St. Louis
                              " in A Cabinet of Curiosities: Five Episodes in the Evolution of
                                   American Museums, ed. Whitfield J. Bell Jr. et al.
                              (Charlottesville
                              , Va., 1967), 49-72; Gilman, Lewis and
                                   Clark; John Francis McDermott, "William
                              Clark's Museum Once More," 
                                   Missouri
                                   Historical Society Bulletin, 16 (January 1960),
                              130-33.
                         33For more on Shaw, his garden and park, and the
                              urban world which they inhabited, William Barnaby Faherty, Henry Shaw, His Life and Legacies (
                              Columbia
                              , Mo.,
                              1987); and Eric Sandweiss,
                    

                    

                     Wade did not dwell on the look of the city, neither describing how
                         distinguished buildings bespoke cultural capital nor detailing the
                         mechanics of road layout, sewer digging, and sidewalk construction integral
                         to creating new sections of the city. In the years since, architectural
                         historian Lawrence Lowic has catalogued the built environment of what might
                         be called "official St. Louis
                         ," and John Reps has
                         gathered period illustrations that provided visual evidence for the city
                         boosters' dreams.34 Wade noted how
                         "the rise of the suburbs was an index of the increasing pace of
                         the West's urbanization," providing a first foray into
                         the study of this inveterately American form of city expansion.35 In studying the neighborhoods of St. Louis
                         , urban
                         historian Eric Sandweiss built on this foundation to create a vibrant and
                         compelling portrait of how the American landscape was transformed, mapping
                         property allotments and cataloging building types to detail and alter
                         Wade's generalizations.36 Meanwhile,
                         environmental historian Andrew Hurley has tracked how railroads
                         simultaneously connected the downtown district to the streetcar suburbs and
                         segregated the industrial waterfront from the rest of the city.37
                    Despite the impression gained from many official records, antebellum 
                         St. Louis
                         was not merely the domain of men. As Mayor Lane went about his
                         official duties, he also conducted a decades-long--and well-
                         preserved--correspondence with his wife, Mary Ewing Lane, and their 
                              ed., St. Louis
                                   in the Century of Henry Shaw: A View Beyond the
                                   Garden Wall (Columbia
                                   , Mo., 2003).
                              34Lawrence Lowic, The
                                   Architectural Heritage of 
                                   St. Louis, 1803-1891: From the
                                   Louisiana Purchase to the Wainwright Building (
                                   St. Louis
                                   , Mo.
                                   , 1982); John William Reps, 
                                        Saint Louis
                                        Illustrated: Nineteenth-Century Engravings and Lithographs
                                        of a Mississippi River
                                        Metropolis (Columbia
                                   , Mo.,
                                   1989); and Reps, Cities of the Mississippi:
                                        Nineteenth-Century Images of Urban Development
                                   (Columbia
                                   , Mo., 1994). See also Don Rickey Jr., "The Old
                                   St. Louis
                                   Riverfront, 1763-1960," 
                                        Missouri
                                        Historical Review, 58 (January 1964), 174-90; and
                                   "The Historical Significance of the Jefferson National
                                   Expansion Memorial Area," 
                                        Missouri
                                        Historical Society Bulletin, 2 (July 1946),
                                   47-53.
                              35Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 307. Among the scholarship on American suburbs
                                   showing Wade's influence, see Kenneth T. Jackson, Crabgrass Frontier: The Suburbanization of the
                                        United States
                                    (New York
                                   , 1985); Lisa McGirr, Suburban Warriors: The Origins of the New American
                                        Right (Princeton
                                   , N.J., 2001); Adam Rome, The Bulldozer in the Countryside: Suburban Sprawl and the
                                        Rise of American Environmentalism (
                                   New York,
                                   2001).
                              36Eric Sandweiss, 
                                   St. Louis:
                                        The Evolution of an American Urban Landscape
                                   (Philadelphia
                                   , Pa., 2001).
                              37Andrew Hurley, "On the
                                   Waterfront: Railroads and Real Estate in Antebellum 
                                   St. Louis
                                   ," Gateway Heritage, 13 (1993),
                                   4-17.
                         
                          daughters, Anne Lane and Sarah Lane
                         Glasgow. These letters described politics and economic prospects alongside
                         details of the latest public lectures and arts displays.38 Family ties held together emerging city elites, as historian
                         (and Wade student) Timothy R. Mahoney has shown, tracing the intermarriages
                         of merchant families and the patterns of family migration throughout the
                         Ohio
                         and Mississippi
                         Valleys.39 Women's
                         historians Katharine T. Corbett and Martha Saxton are among those who took
                         up the task of supplementing Wade's research by highlighting the
                         "women on the urban frontier," their labors, their
                         choices, and their early charitable and religious associations.40 Based upon Wade's blueprint, these works
                         provide a richer and more nuanced look at 
                         St. Louis
                         as it emerged as a
                         metropolis.
                    "About 1830 the second era of urban history in the West came to a
                         close," Wade wrote of his five cities, acknowledging the
                         provisional nature of this end date but linking it to a series of city
                         incorporations (
                         St. Louis
                         in 1823) and the enlarging of the
                         cities' physical boundaries.41 Historians Glen
                         E. Holt and Maximilian Reichard explicitly mentioned Wade's work
                         as inspiration for their attempts to anatomize the 1820s as a
                         "transition decade" in 
                         St. Louis
                         history.42 Soon after 1830, Thomas Hart Benton and Henry Clay rose to be
                         national leaders--as Wade noted, not just frontier politicians and Western
                         senators but urban men.43 Wade's urban
                         frontier was completely integrated into the 
                         United States by 1830, but
                         these cities continued to grow apace, controlling entire regions and
                         spurring the next round of westward expansion. By stopping his study 
                              38William Carr Lane Papers, 
                                   Missouri
                                   Historical Society; William G. B. Carson, "Anne Ewing
                                   Lane," 
                                        Missouri
                                        Historical Society
                                        Bulletin, 21 (January 1965), 87-99;
                                   "'Secesh,'" Missouri
                                        Historical Society Bulletin, 23 (January
                                   1967), 119-45.
                              39Timothy R. Mahoney, River
                                        Towns in the Great West: The Structure of Provincial
                                        Urbanization in the American Midwest, 1820-1870 (
                                   New York
                                   , 1990); Mahoney, Provincial Lives: Middle-Class
                                   Experience in the Antebellum Middle West (
                                   New York
                                   ,
                                   1999).
                              40Katharine T. Corbett, In Her
                                   Place: A Guide to 
                                   St. Louis Women's History
                                   (St. Louis
                                   , Mo.
                                   , 1999), 20; Martha Saxton, Being
                                        Good: Women's Moral Values in Early America
                                   
                                   (New York
                                   , 2003).
                              41Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 202, also 271-72.
                              42Glen E. Holt, 
                                   "St. Louis's
                                   Transition Decade, 1819-1830," Missouri
                                        Historical Review, 76 (July 1982),
                                   365-81; Maximilian Reichard, "Black and White on the
                                   Urban Frontier: The 
                                   St. Louis
                                   Community in Transition,
                                   1800-1830," Missouri
                                        Historical Society
                                        Bulletin, 33 (October 1976), 3-17. See also Glen E.
                                   Holt, "The Shaping of 
                                   St. Louis
                                   , 1763-1860"
                                   (Ph.D. diss., University of Chicago, 1975).
                              43Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 339-42, 304-307.
                         
                          in 1830, Wade missed the changing
                         nature of St. Louis's
                         prospects--and the disillusionment that
                         would engulf William Carr Lane and his family.
                    After Wade's frontier opened the lands of the Ohio
                         Valley and the
                         Louisiana Purchase, cities once again led the way in the massive land
                         acquisitions of the 1840s: the annexation of 
                         Texas and 
                         Oregon, and the
                         conquest and purchase of the Mexican Cession. Propelled by mineral rushes,
                         San Francisco
                         and Denver
                         rose as seemingly "instant
                         cities," as urban historian Gunther Barth has written; utilizing
                         the raw materials of the entire "Great West," 
                         Chicago
                         rose from obscurity to capture the potential hinterlands of 
                         St. Louis, as
                         historian William Cronon has described.44 Following
                         Wade's outline and researching the growth of cities from founding
                         to maturity, a cadre of scholars framed studies of 
                         Seattle
                         , Portland, 
                         Salt
                         Lake City
                         , Boise
                         , Helena
                         , Las Vegas
                         , and Phoenix
                         into accounts of
                         "how cities won the West," a title Richard Wade himself
                         suggested to his former student Carl Abbott.45
                    As the twentieth century dawned, St. Louis
                         was the fourth-largest city in the
                         nation, bested in the trans-Appalachian
                         West only by Chicago
                         . By the dawn
                         of the twenty-first century, Chicago
                         remained in the top four but 
                         St. Louis
                         was the forty-ninth-largest city in the nation, its metropolitan area a
                         modestly more impressive eighteenth. What had happened?
                    Some seeds of trouble were present in 1830. "St. Louis
                         , though the
                         scene of much ambitious planning, fell behind other towns," Wade
                         wrote, specifically discussing the failure at that date to establish public
                         schools but also identifying a leitmotif of 
                         St. Louis history. City leaders
                              
                              44Gunther Paul Barth, Instant
                                   Cities: Urbanization and the Rise of 
                                   San Francisco and
                                   Denver
                               (New York
                                   , 1975); William Cronon, Nature's Metropolis: Chicago
                                        and the Great
                                        West (New York
                                   , 1991).
                              45Among the exemplary histories of cities in
                                   the trans-Mississippi West are the many works of Carl Abbott,
                                   including The Metropolitan Frontier: Cities in the
                                   Modern American West (Tucson
                                   , Ariz., 1993); How Cities Won the West: Four Centuries of Urban
                                        Change in Western North America (Albuquerque
                                   , N.M.,
                                   2008). Abbott mentions Wade's suggestion of the title on
                                   p. ix. See also, for example, Eugene P Moehring, Urbanism and Empire in the Far West, 1840-1890 (
                                   Reno,
                                   Nev.,
                                   2004); Jocelyn Wills, Boosters, Hustlers, and
                                        Speculators: Entrepreneurial Culture and the Rise of
                                        Minneapolis
                                        and St. Paul
                                        , 1849-1883 (St. Paul
                                   , Minn.,
                                   2005); Barbara Berglund, Making 
                                        San Francisco
                                        American: Cultural Frontiers in the Urban West,
                                        1846-1906 (Lawrence
                                   , Kan., 2007). For an earlier
                                   historiographic effort, including the Mississippi River
                                   Valley
                                   and the trans-Mississippi West, see J. Christopher Schnell and
                                   Patrick E. McLear, "Why the Cities Grew: A
                                   Historiographical Essay on Western Urban Growth,
                                   1850-1880," Missouri
                                        Historical Society
                                        Bulletin, 27 (April 1972), 162-77.
                         
                          disagreed on how best to promote
                         manufacturing, how to manage a racially diverse population, whether to
                         embrace municipal home rule, and then whether regional government offered
                         any advantage.46 The city-county split in 1876 closed
                         the door to growth by annexation, and the ever-more aggressive urban
                         planning and development schemes pursued by St. Louis
                         leaders in the
                         twentieth century left a trove of dramatic if mostly unsuccessful
                         plans.47 Yet St. Louis
                         's fate was shaped
                         more by the decades just after 1830, as its previous geographic and
                         political advantages came to be detriments.
                    At the center of the continent, near the confluence of two of the
                         nation's greatest rivers, St. Louis
                         profited from its geography to
                         become a leading city of the United States
                         . Straddling the northern border
                         of slavery as well as the gateway of westward expansion, the city
                         maintained a profitable, multiethnic network in fur trading even as
                         English-speaking, American-born leaders came to dominate its politics. Thus
                         St. Louis
                         progressed across the urban frontier Wade described while still
                         retaining much of its frontier diversity. Presiding over a region split by
                         the slavery question, St. Louis
                         was engulfed in contradictions that would
                         be resolved only in the great struggle of the Civil War and Reconstruction.
                         After Reconstruction's collapse--less than forty years after
                         Wade's study concluded--the city's leaders found
                         themselves permanently in Chicago
                         's shadow.
                    Historians of St. Louis
                         have spent a great deal of scholarly energy on
                         pinning down the time and mechanism of this loss. Economic historian
                         Wyatt Belcher blamed overconfident St. Louis
                         rivermen who scoffed 
                              46Wade touches on the
                                   manufacturing-versus-trade debate, The Urban
                                        Frontier, 200-202; see also J. Christopher Schnell and
                                   Katherine B. Clinton, "The New West: Themes in
                                   Nineteenth Century Urban Promotion, 1815-1880," Missouri
                                        Historical Society Bulletin, 30
                                   (January 1974), 75-88. Terrence Jones is a proponent of municipal
                                   diversity; E. Terrence Jones, Fragmented by Design:
                                        Why St. Louis
                                        Has So Many Governments (St. Louis
                                   , Mo.,
                                   2000). Most scholars see this separation as the key factor in
                                   hampering St. Louis
                                   in the twentieth century; see Arenson,
                                   "City of Manifest Destiny," chap. 10; Thomas
                                   Swain Barclay, The Movement for Municipal Home Rule
                                        in St. Louis
                                    (Columbia
                                   , Mo.
                                   , 1943); William Nathan
                                   Cassella Jr., "City-County Separation: The
                                   'Great Divorce' of 1876," Missouri
                                        Historical Society Bulletin, 55 (January
                                   1959), 85-104; Cassella, "Governing the 
                                   Saint Louis
                                   Metropolitan Area" (Ph.D. diss., Harvard University,
                                   1953); Colin Gordon, Mapping Decline: St. Louis
                                        and
                                        the Fate of the American City (Philadelphia
                                   , Pa.,
                                   2008).
                              47See, for example, Gordon, Mapping Decline;
                                   Joseph Heathcott, "The City Remade: Race, Public
                                   Housing, and the Urban Landscape in St. Louis
                                   ,
                                   1900-1960" (Ph.D. diss., Indiana University, 2002); Mark
                                   Tranel, ed., St. Louis
                                        Plans: The Ideal and the Real
                                        St. Louis
                                    (St. Louis
                                   , Mo., 2007).
                         
                          at the railroad; Jeffrey Adler
                         suggested that northeastern financiers did not wish to invest in a slave
                         state, and hence favored Chicago
                         .48 Yet my own research
                         has added to the evidence put forward by J. Christopher Schnell, James Neal
                         Primm, William Cronon, and Frank Towers to demonstrate the broad and
                         ambitious investments made in St. Louis
                         after 1830 and the moderate local
                         approach to slavery--and how those plans were stymied by political
                         disadvantages, a fatal railroad accident, and a financial panic. The
                         failure of St. Louis
                         to capitalize on all its seeming advantages suggests
                         the failure of Manifest Destiny itself in the face of slavery politics
                         before, during, and after the Civil War.49

                    William Carr Lane was born the year the U.S.
                         Constitution came into effect,
                         and he lived to see its precepts challenged in the Civil War. Thirty-four
                         years old when he was elected St. Louis
                         's first mayor, Lane lived
                         another forty years, also serving as a state representative and as 
                         New Mexico's 
                         territorial governor, cementing business and political
                         ties along the Santa Fe Trail
                         . With the influx of Irish and German immi-
                         grants, the judicial decisions against Dred and Harriet Scott, and the
                         declaration of martial law by Union commanders during the Civil War, 
                         St. Louis
                         and the nation were transformed in his eyes. Over the decades,
                         Lane's optimistic vision of St. Louis
                         --a fledgling American city,
                         profiting from the existing French town plan and trade networks and city
                         foundations--faded as men who were his political and philosophic
                         opposites came into leadership roles.
                    "This Civil War is a painful theme which thrusts itself before us,
                         at every turn," Lane wrote in April 1862, complaining of the
                         constraints imposed by what he called "our present abolitionist
                         Yankee rule."50
                         
                              48Wyatt Winton Belcher, The
                                   Economic Rivalry between 
                                   St. Louis
                                   and Chicago,
                                   1850-1880 (New York
                                   , 1947); Jeffrey S. Adler, Yankee Merchants and the Making of the Urban West:
                                        The Rise and Fall of Antebellum St. Louis
                                    (Cambridge,
                                   U.K., 1991).
                              49Arenson, "City of Manifest
                                   Destiny," esp. chap. 4; J. Christopher Schnell,
                                   "Chicago
                                   Versus St. Louis
                                   : A Reassessment of the Great
                                   Rivalry," Missouri
                                        Historical Review,
                                   71 (1977), 245-65; James Neal Primm, Economic Policy
                                        in the Development of a Western State, Missouri
                                        ,
                                        1820-1860 (Cambridge
                                   , Mass.
                                   , 1954); Primm,
                                   "The Economy of Nineteenth-Century St. Louis
                                   ,"
                                   in St. Louis
                                        in the Century of Henry Shaw,
                                   103-135; Cronon, Nature's Metropolis;
                                   Frank Towers, The Urban South and the Coming of the
                                   Civil War (Charlottesville
                                   , Va.
                                   , 2004).
                              50William Carr Lane, St. Louis
                                   , to William
                                   Glasgow Jr., April 14, 1862, and Lane to Sarah Lane Glasgow,
                                   Wiesbaden, February 7, 1862, from transcriptions in the William
                                   Carr Lane Papers. Cited in Arenson, "City of Manifest
                                   Destiny," chap. 7.
                         
                          Protected by age and reputation, Lane
                         was freer than most to grumble, yet the transformation he witnessed was
                         real. As mayor, Lane embodied Wade's arguments in The
                         Urban Frontier about the development of 
                         St. Louis
                         as a
                         freewheeling urban vanguard. Decades later, Lane could only bitterly wonder
                         at how that promise had been erased by the all-consuming conflict over
                         slavery. More than most, Lane experienced the double life of 
                         St. Louis in
                         the nineteenth century.
                    Focusing on the years 1790 to 1830 and comparing five Ohio
                         Valley cities,
                         Richard Wade's The Urban Frontier portrayed a
                         certain version of St. Louis
                         's history. Aligning the
                         cities' origin stories and yardsticks of urban maturity,
                         Wade's account ultimately privileged the aspects of 
                         St. Louis
                         's history most like the American-founded river towns, where
                         the age of the steamboat marked their zenith. This comfortable history of
                         St. Louis
                         , with the key transition from French and Spanish founders and
                         American Indian traders to a solid U.S.
                         commercial hub, has long had its
                         backers among citizens and historians of the city.51
                         Yet the multi-ethnic, inter-regional history of 
                         St. Louis
                         that began in the
                         Cahokia Mounds
                         and continued through the hard-fought battles of the Civil
                         War and Reconstruction offers a different history of the city--one that,
                         fifty years after Wade's inspiring first forays, we now have begun
                         to appreciate in its greater, troubling complexity. 
                    
                         51For one extravagant example, consider the 1914
                              Pageant and Masque version of 
                              St. Louis
                              history. See Donald Bright
                              Ostler, "Nights of Fantasy: The 
                              St. Louis
                              Pageant and Masque
                              of 1914," Missouri
                                   Historical Society
                                   Bulletin, 31 (April 1975), 175-205; Arenson, "City
                              of Manifest Destiny," epilogue; James Neal Primm, Lion of the Valley: St. Louis
                                   , Missouri
                                   , 1764-1980,
                              3rd ed. (St. Louis
                              , 1998), 427-30; Eric Sandweiss, "From a
                              Garden Looking Out: Public Culture in Henry Shaw's 
                              St. Louis
                              ," in St. Louis
                                   in the Century of Henry
                                   Shaw, 14.
                    
               

               

               
                    The Urban Frontier in Pioneer Indiana
                    ROBERT G. BARROWS AND LEIGH DARBEE
                    
                         One of the central themes of Richard Wade's The Urban Frontier-- that the "growth of
                         urbanism was an important part of the occupation of the
                         West"--has been reflected in Indiana historiography only
                         occasionally. Donald E Carmony's examination of the state from
                         1816 to mid-century is definitive on constitutional, financial, political,
                         and transportation topics, but is much less informative concerning social
                         and urban history; indeed, Wade's book does not appear in
                         Carmony's bibliography. In his one-volume history of the state,
                              The Indiana Way, James H. Madison echoes Wade when
                         he writes: "Towns were an essential part of frontier development
                         . . . providing essential services to the rural and agricultural majority
                         of Indiana's population."1 When one
                         considers the history of cities and towns in pioneer Indiana in relation
                         to Wade's classic work, a "generation gap"
                         becomes readily apparent. Developments in Indiana (and, notably, in
                         Indianapolis
                         , the closest comparison to the cities Wade examined) run two
                         or three decades behind his discussion of urbanism in the Ohio
                         Valley. Wade
                         begins his 
                              Robert G. Barrows is chair of the Department of History at
                                   Indiana University-Purdue University 
                                   Indianapolis and co-editor,
                                   with David Bodenhamer, of The Encyclopedia of
                                        Indianapolis
                                    (1994). Leigh Darbee is executive
                                   assistant at the Indiana Rail Road Company, Indianapolis
                                   , and the
                                   author of A Guide to Early Imprints at the Indiana
                                        Historical Society, 1619- 1840 (2001).
                              1Richard C. Wade, The Urban
                                        Frontier: The Rise of Western Cities, 1790-1830
                                   (Cambridge
                                   , Mass.
                                   , 1959), 2; Donald E Carmony, Indiana, 1816-1850: The Pioneer Era (
                                   Indianapolis,
                                   1998); James H. Madison, The Indiana Way: A State
                                   History (Bloomington
                                   , Ind., 1986), 93.
                         
                          book in 1790 (ten years prior to the
                         creation of Indiana Territory) and concludes his Part I in 1815, one year
                         before Indiana became a state. He ends his narrative in 1830, at which
                         point Indiana's new capital city was less than a decade old. In
                         that year 
                         Cincinnati
                         had a population of almost 25,000 and 
                         Louisville
                         claimed approximately 10,000--and both were situated on a major
                         transportation corridor.2 
                         Indianapolis, with at most
                         1,900 residents and probably several hundred fewer, remained at the time an
                         "isolated outpost, poorly connected with the settled portions of
                         the state."3 Even the state's largest
                         cities were much smaller than the communities Wade examined. Indeed, in
                         simple numerical terms, when Indiana joined the Union in 1816 the state
                         scarcely had an urban component at all. To be sure, several extant
                         towns--Vincennes
                         , Corydon
                         , Madison--played important roles in the
                         state's early political and economic life, but these were still
                         very small places in 1816, well below the threshold of 2,500 residents
                         necessary today to be classified as an "urban place" in
                         the census.
                    The situation did not change much during the first twenty-five years of
                         statehood. There were many new towns established in the aftermath of the
                         New Purchase of 1818, as migrants began to surge northward from the 
                         Ohio River
                         and new counties (requiring county seats) were created. But in both
                         1820 and 1830 less than 1 percent of Indiana's residents could be
                         classified as urban, even if the technical definition is abandoned.
                         Geographer Stephen Visher, an early student of the state's nascent
                         urban network, observed that "there were few towns in much of
                         south central and central Indiana until after 1825, and few in northern
                         Indiana until after 1840."4 By 1840 a mere 1.6
                         percent of Hoosiers lived 
                              2Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                                   195, 198.
                              3Carmony, Indiana,
                                        1816-1850, 111. There are no official or even generally
                                   accepted population figures for 
                                   Indianapolis prior to 1840. The
                                   figure of 1,900 residents in the capital in 1830 is an admitted
                                   estimate in The Encyclopedia of 
                                        Indianapolis.
                                   Dunn reports a total population of 1,066 in 1827 (based on a
                                   census taken by Sunday school visitors) and 1,683 in 1835 (based
                                   on a count conducted by the town's assessor). Barnhart
                                   and Carmony cite the Indiana Journal
                                   (Indianapolis
                                   ), which reported in October 1830 that the capital
                                   had 1,094 residents. See David Bodenhamer and Robert G. Barrows,
                                   eds., The Encyclopedia of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                   (Bloomington
                                   , Ind., 1994), 1504; Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater Indianapolis
                                        : The History, the Industries, the
                                        Institutions, and the People of a City of Homes (2
                                   vols., Chicago
                                   , 1910), 1: 94, 99; and John D. Barnhart and Donald
                                   E Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial
                                   Commonwealth (4 vols., New York
                                   , 1954), 1: 418.
                              4Stephen S. Visher, "The Location
                                   of Indiana Towns and Cities," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History, 51 (December 1955), 341n.
                         
                          in places reporting 2,500 or more
                         inhabitants. If the census criterion is applied, then just three cities
                         accounted for the state's entire urban population: 
                         New Albany
                         (4,226), Madison
                         (3,798), and Indianapolis
                         (2,692). "That Indiana
                         was a rural state in 1840 can scarcely be doubted," observe two
                         well-known historians, "but the lack of urban centers may not be
                         fully realized."5
                    Population statistics, however, do not tell the whole story. The cities,
                         towns, and villages of Indiana's pioneer era had an importance
                         belied by their modest size. These "wedge[s] of urbanism . ..
                         driven into the backwoods" served critical economic, governmental,
                         and social functions, and did in fact provide "the central
                         experience of many settlers." R. Carlyle Buley argued that life
                         in the villages and country towns of the Old Northwest "differed
                         but little" from life in the surrounding countryside. Perhaps--but
                         it did differ.6
                    Why did towns and cities develop in certain places and not in others? And
                         why did some urban areas grow while others stagnated? The location of
                         Indiana towns depended on many factors, the combination and importance of
                         which differed from place to place and over time. Although no listing of
                         such factors can purport to be all-inclusive, Carmony and John D. Barnhart
                         offered a useful compilation: "county seat selections, the Indian
                         trading places, spots where land or water traffic and trade crossed, the
                         clustering of shops or stores around grist and saw mills, the boosting and
                         gifts of speculators and promoters, sites where boats were loaded or goods
                         exported, and the impetus which came from the location of general
                              stores."7
                    Entrepreneurial functions should perhaps be emphasized, since the initial
                         raison d'etre for most towns was essentially economic.
                         Wade's description of western towns as the "commercial
                         nerve centers of the frontier" seems applicable to Indiana
                         (although, as will be seen, less so to early 
                         Indianapolis than might be
                         expected). As Francis P. Weisenburger observed in his pioneering study of
                         midwestern urbanization, published more than a decade before The Urban Frontier, "little villages in the forest
                         arose almost with the cultivation of the first farms, in order to take care
                         of 
                              5Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, 1: 179.
                              6Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                                   35, 2; R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer
                                   Period, 1815- 1840 (2 vols., Indianapolis
                                   , 1950), 1:
                                   235.
                              7Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, 1: 418.
                         
                          necessary demands of the countryside.
                         . . . Similarly, larger communities developed as interior market towns for
                         a considerable area."8
                    The enterprise of town promoters must also be acknowledged. Land speculation
                         was a widespread and important activity throughout the nineteenth century,
                         and "town jobbing" was merely a specialized form of the
                         art. As Buley observes: "The turnover, if any, was relatively
                         quick and profitable; since little capital was required almost anyone could
                         try his hand at it." By the late 1820s and early 1830s, town sites
                         were being promoted in central and northern Indiana, and newspapers carried
                         advertisements for the sale of lots in 
                         Anderson
                         , Knightstown
                         , Muncie,
                         Delphi
                         , Marion
                         , Lebanon
                         , South Bend
                         , and La Porte
                         . Some speculative
                         ventures, such as those just mentioned, were successful. Numerous others,
                         both in Indiana and across the Midwest, were not, prompting a 
                         Chicago
                         editor to comment in 1835: "Each town has its day and each day has
                         its town."9
                    Speculating on the success or decline of antebellum towns, urban geographer
                         Allen Pred has focused on "geographical expressions of initial
                         advantage"--primarily desirability of location and degree of
                         access to transportation networks.10 These factors were
                         not static, and some notable Indiana examples support the observation that
                         "variations in the performance of these towns over the years
                         indicated that . . . the difficulties of adjusting to the changing
                         conditions of regional development must have been severe."11
                    In pioneer-era Indiana, the Ohio
                         , lower Wabash, and 
                         Whitewater Rivers were
                         major routes of travel and trade and produced what Buley termed a
                         "crescent of settlement."12 Visher
                         notes that "villages and towns were located on their banks at
                         points having some local advantage, such as higher, better-drained land, or
                         the presence of a tributary valley." Some three dozen Indiana
                         towns had been established on the Ohio River
                         by 1830, including 
                         New Albany
                         and Madison
                         , then the state's two 
                              8Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                                   42; Francis P. Weisenburger, "The Urbanization of the
                                   Middle West: Town and Village in the Pioneer Period,"
                                        Indiana Magazine of History, 41 (March
                                   1945), 21.
                              9Buley, Old Northwest, 2:
                                   147, 53.
                              10Allan Pred, "Industrialization,
                                   Initial Advantage, and American Metropolitan Growth,"
                                        Geographical Review, 55 (April 1965),
                                   173.
                              11Edward K. Muller, "Selective
                                   Urban Growth in the Middle Ohio Valley, 1800-1860," Geographical Review, 66 (April 1976),
                                   178.
                              12Buley, Old Northwest,
                                   1:26.
                         
                         
                         
                              "View of the City of 
                                   Madison,
                                   Indiana." The river towns of Madison
                                   and New Albany
                                   were, for at least two decades, more populated and prosperous
                                   than the state capital in Indianapolis
                                   .
                                   Gleason's Pictorial Drawing-Room
                                        Companion (New York, 1854), courtesy of the Indiana
                                   Historical Society
                          largest.13 Ten years later, over four-fifths
                         of the state's residents lived in the southern half of the state,
                         and one-half of those lived within seventy-five miles of the Ohio River
                         .14 Victor M. Bogle attributes much of 
                         New Albany's 
                         population growth and economic expansion in the
                         antebellum years to its riverine access, noting that the city's
                         "location at a key point on the Ohio was an enviable one in a
                         period when the river counted for so much."15
                         The importance of ready access to the major river systems is underscored by
                         the location of county seats. Ten of the thirteen Indiana counties that
                         touch the Ohio River have county seats situated on the river rather than in
                         the interior. And of the fourteen counties touched by the Wabash, ten have
                         their seat of government adjacent to the river.16
                    
                         13Visher, "Location of Indiana Towns and
                              Cities," 341-42.
                         14Roger H. Van Bolt, "The Indiana Scene
                              in the 1840's," Indiana Magazine of
                                   History, 47 (December 1951), 333.
                         15Victor M. Bogle, "
                              New Albany:
                              Mid-Nineteenth Century Economic Expansion," Indiana Magazine of History, 53 (June 1957), 145.
                         16Thomas Frank Barton,
                              "Indiana's Hierarchy of Numerically Primate Cities:
                              An Extension of the Jefferson Hypothesis," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences
                              (1971), 58.
                    

                    

                    The construction of canals--artificial rivers--during the 1830s and 1840s
                         spurred the development of cities located along their routes. The 
                         Wabash
                         and Erie Canal encouraged economic activity in 
                         Fort Wayne
                         , Peru,
                         Logansport
                         , Lafayette
                         , Terre Haute
                         , and Evansville
                         ; while the Whitewater
                         Canal prompted the growth of towns and cities in the east-central portion
                         of the state. But the canals were merely extensions of a water-based
                         transportation system and were intended to provide more dependable access
                         to the Ohio River
                         and the Great Lakes.17
                    One other item, sometimes overlooked, should be included in any discussion of
                         "initial advantages." The governmental functions assumed
                         by some cities and towns usually gave them an edge with respect to
                         long-term growth. Designation as a county seat (or, as we shall see, the
                         state capital) automatically added a flourishing
                         "industry" to the community. Competition for this honor
                         was intense, leading one writer to document what he called the
                         "county seat wars" in Indiana.18 Such
                         fervor was not misplaced; in many cases the community designated as the
                         seat of government went on to become the largest town in the county. In
                         1970 over two-thirds of the state's county seats (64 of 92) were
                         at least two times larger than the next largest town in the same county.19
                    Wade's enduring image of pioneer cities as "spearheads ...
                         planted far in advance of the line of settlement" is reflected in
                         Indiana by two towns, already mentioned, whose location gave them a
                         significant "initial advantage."20
                         Madison
                         , situated 86 miles below 
                         Cincinnati
                         and 43 miles above 
                         Louisville,
                         was founded in 1811 and sited "in one of the most northerly bends
                         of the Ohio." Thus, in the words of an early western traveler,
                         it presented "one of the nearest points of Ohio [River] nav-
                         igation to that extensive body of rich land, at and around the 
                         Delaware
                         towns [in central Indiana], which yet remain uncultivated."21 Many immigrants to Indiana disembarked at 
                         Madison,
                         especially after the New 
                              17Edwin Maldonado, "Urban Growth
                                   During the Canal Era: The Case of Indiana," Indiana Social Studies Quarterly, 31 (Winter 1978-79),
                                   20-37.
                              18Ernest V. Shockley, "County Seats
                                   and County Seat Wars in Indiana," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History, 10 (March 1914), 1-46.
                              19Barton, "Indiana's
                                   Hierarchy of Numerically Primate Cities," 56.
                              20Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 1.
                              21Edmund Dana, Geographical
                              Sketches on the Western Country (
                                   Cincinnati, 1819),
                                   118-19, as quoted in Donald T. Zimmer, 
                                   "Madison,
                                   Indiana, 1811-1860: A Study in the Process of City
                                   Building" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University,
                                   1974), 74.
                         
                          Purchase of 1818, and
                         "service to these immigrants while they established themselves
                         on the virgin land, was the hamlet's concern." By about
                         1820 Madison
                         had established a sizable "tributary area from which
                         it drew surplus produce for processing and marketing and for which it
                         provided manufactured goods."22 
                         Madison was,
                         of course, much smaller than either Cincinnati
                         or Louisville
                         , with a
                         population in 1820 of perhaps 900 and only about 8,000 by 1850.23 But had Wade elected to examine communities on the
                         Indiana side of the Ohio River
                         , he might have identified in 
                         Madison
                         characteristics that supported his thesis that towns were the
                         "spearheads" of the frontier.
                    So, too, with New Albany
                         , located across the river from 
                         Louisville. The town
                         was situated at the lower end of the Falls of the Ohio, a shallow, rocky
                         stretch of the river that was a transportation break point. As the
                         community's principal historian observed, migrants "came
                         down the Ohio River
                         as far as practicable, then branched off at some
                         convenient point to continue the journey by land. The Falls made 
                         New Albany
                         one of these convenient points."24 Although
                         much smaller than Louisville
                         , by about 1830 the town "did possess
                         important commercial advantages" including "its growing
                         role as a trade mart for a large agricultural section of southern
                         Indiana."25 At least into the 1830s, 
                         New Albany's 
                         general stores "provided the townspeople and
                         their rural neighbors many of their daily needs"--from tea and
                         coffee to plows and axes. Store inventories "attest to the
                         variety of foodstuffs, beverages, luxury items, and general conveniences
                         available to 
                         New Albany
                         purchasers."26 So
                         while communities like 
                         Madison and 
                         New Albany
                         were obviously overshadowed
                         by Cincinnati
                         and Louisville
                         , they nonetheless serve as examples of
                         Wade's claim that "the central nexus of the urbanization
                         of the West was commerce."27
                    But what of 
                         Indianapolis
                         , the state's capital and, by 1860, its
                         largest city? In the half-century since publication of The
                              Urban Frontier, the rel- 
                                   22Zimmer, "
                                        Madison,
                                   Indiana," 46, 74.
                              23Ibid., 74, 54.
                                   24Victor M. Bogle, "
                                        New Albany:
                                   Reaching for the Hinterland," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History, 50 (June 1954), 157.
                                   25Victor M. Bogle, "New Albany
                                        Within the Shadow of 
                                        Louisville," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History, 51 (December 1955), 303.
                                   26Bogle, "New Albany:
                                   Mid-Nineteenth Century Economic Expansion," 130.
                              27Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 66.
                         
                         
                         
                              The selection of the site of 
                                   Indianapolis
                                   in 1820.
                                   The city was designed as a center of government, not of commerce
                                   or merchandise.
                                   Frank Leslie's Illustrated Newspaper,
                                   September 26, 1874, courtesy of the Indiana Historical
                                   Society
                          atively few historians who have written about antebellum
                         Indianapolis
                         have not applied Wade's thesis to their examinations
                         of the city's early development. James Madison's work on
                         the business community of early 
                         Indianapolis
                         does not examine the pre-Civil
                         War capital in the context of Wade's observations. Neither does
                         Edward A. Leary's popular account 
                              Indianapolis:
                              The
                              Story of a City (1971), published on the occasion of the
                         community's sesquicentennial, nor George W. Geib's
                         heavily illustrated 
                              Indianapolis:
                              Hoosiers' Circle
                              City (1981). This seeming omission may well be entirely
                         appropriate, however, since Wade's thesis appears to be less
                         applicable to 
                         Indianapolis
                         than to the river towns he examined or to other
                         Indiana locales such as those discussed above.28
                    
                    
                         28James H. Madison, "Businessmen and the
                              Business Community in 
                              Indianapolis,
                              1820-1860" (Ph.D.
                              dissertation, Indiana University, 1972); Edward A. Leary, 
                                   Indianapolis:
                                   The Story of a City (
                              Indianapolis,
                              1971);
                              George W Geib, 
                                   Indianapolis:
                                   Hoosiers' Circle
                                   City (Tulsa
                              , Okla., 1981).
                    

                    

                    Unlike the cities Wade examined, as well as towns like 
                         New Albany
                         and Madison
                         that grew from their natural physical advantages, 
                         Indianapolis
                         was created
                         by politicians to serve a governmental function. As historian Jon Teaford
                         observes, "from selection to sale ... 
                         Indianapolis 
                         was a state
                         creation molded by the public sector."29 This
                         fact retarded the city's commercial and industrial growth, and it
                         was only a significant technological innovation--the railroad--that turned
                         Indianapolis
                         from a provincial town focused primarily on its governmental
                         role to a major economic hub in the Midwest. Carl Abbott, reviewing a
                         reprint edition of Wade's Urban Frontier,
                         remarks that " [i]n Wade's Old Northwest we find no
                         gradual coalescence of rural subsistence society into a more complex
                              economy."30 In many ways, however, this
                         is precisely how 
                         Indianapolis
                         did develop, struggling through almost three
                         decades of sluggish growth before flourishing in the second half of the
                         nineteenth century.
                    One of the iconic stories in Indiana history is that of the commissioners
                         setting out into the wilderness in 1820 to find a centrally located site
                         for the new state capital, as mandated by the General Assembly in order to
                         fulfill the provision in the 1816 state constitution that 
                         Corydon would
                         remain the seat of government only until 1825. Their charge was
                         straightforward: 
                              The said commissioners or a majority of them shall meet at the site
                                   above named on the first Monday in April next or as soon
                                   thereafter as they conveniently can and shall proceed to lay out
                                   a town on such part of the land selected and hereby established
                                   as the seat of government as they may deem most proper, and on
                                   such plan as they may conceive will be advantageous to the state
                                   and to the prosperity of said town having specially in view the
                                   health, utility and beauty of the place.31
                         
                    
                    
                         29Frederick D. Kershner Jr., "From
                              Country Town to Industrial City: The Urban Pattern in
                              Indianapolis
                              ," Indiana Magazine of History,
                              45 (December 1949), 327-28; Jon C. Teaford, Cities of the
                                   Heartland: The Rise and Fall of the Industrial Midwest
                              (Bloomington, Ind., 1993), 28.
                         30Carl Abbott, "Review of Richard C.
                              Wade, The Urban Frontier: The Rise of Western Cities,
                                   1790- 1830," H-Urban, H-Net Reviews, April 1997
                              http://www. h-net.msu.edu/reviews/showrev.
                              cgi?path=22538869853460.
                         31Indiana Constitution (1816), Art. XI, Sec. 11;
                                   Laws of Indiana (1820-21), 45.
                    

                    

                    The principal requirement for the site of the new capital was its geographic
                         proximity to the center of the state. Three places were considered, all
                         of which had the primary advantage of location: the Bluffs, near
                         present-day Waverly;
                         William Conner's farm, near what is now
                         Noblesville;
                         and the confluence of Fall Creek and White River
                         . The last of
                         these was chosen because it was nearest the center of the state; because it
                         provided the best location for landing boats of all the sites considered;
                         and because Fall Creek was highly suitable for mills. (The mills would thus
                         be to the east of White River, the east side of which was the better
                         landing bank.)32 Several of these factors were based on
                         the commissioners' mistaken belief that the White River was, or
                         could easily be made, navigable. This was an error that significantly
                         compromised the "initial advantage" the location was
                         expected to enjoy, and it made the capital's early development
                         markedly different from that of the river cities discussed by Wade.
                    Historians have argued back and forth about whether the McCormicks or the
                         Pogues were the first to settle in what would become the capital, but the
                         fact is that they, and perhaps ten other families, had settled on the east
                         bank of White River by the summer of 1820--about the time of the
                         commissioners' visit--with the cluster of cabins coming to be
                         known as the Fall Creek settlement.33 As word of the
                         location of the new capital spread, an estimated additional 200 settlers
                         arrived during the next year or so. Simultaneously, Alexander Ralston
                         developed his distinctive plat for the town, leaving many early cabins
                         standing in the middle of planned streets or oddly oriented after the
                         lots were surveyed.34
                    The official sale of lots began in October 1821, and more than three hundred
                         were purchased in the initial wave. While the original settlers had built
                         their cabins near the White River and Fall Creek, lots to the north and
                         east went first once sales began, with buyers wanting to locate closer to
                         the future center of the city--and also to escape the miasmal low areas
                         near the waterways. Proceeds were earmarked for the erection of public
                         buildings. Sales slowed dramatically after the initial rush to purchase,
                         however, and many who made advance payments to secure lots ultimately
                         defaulted. Perhaps because of this, Governor 
                              32Ida Stearns Stickney, Pioneer
                                   Indianapolis
                               (Indianapolis
                                   , 1907), 23.
                              33Ibid., 3.
                              34Nathaniel Bolton, "Early History
                                   of Indianapolis
                                   and Central Indiana," Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. I, No. 5
                                   (Indianapolis
                                   , 1897), 155-56.
                         
                         
                         
                              An 1825 view of Washington Street in downtown
                                   Indianapolis
                                   . The young town, dependent on the slow-growing state
                                   government for its own growth, developed more slowly than the
                                   riverfront cities studied by Wade. Indiana Historical
                                   Society
                          William Hendricks, in his annual message of November 1825, empha-
                         sized the importance of such projects: "[T]he public buildings
                         contemplated on the Circle and the State House Squares should be
                         commenced as soon as practicable . .. for the commencement of the public
                         buildings will afford strong inducements to the completion of payments, the
                         prevention of forfeitures and the increase of means to finish the
                         work." In 1831 there were still 1,900 acres unsold, and by the
                         mid-1830s, approximately 75 percent of the lots were still owned by the
                         state. As of 1842, the year public land sales ended, they had contributed
                         only about $150,000 to the building fund.35
                    
                         35Buley, Old Northwest, 1: 38;
                              Irma Bachman, "Social Conditions in 
                              Indianapolis
                              before
                              1850" (M.A. thesis, Columbia University, 1933), Ch. I, 13-14;
                                   Laws of Indiana (1820-21), Ch. XVIII,
                    

                    


                    As Hugh McCulloch later recalled, early settlers and visitors to 
                         Indianapolis
                         encountered a distinctly unpromising scene: 
                              ... the plan of the city upon paper was attractive and artistic,
                                   but upon paper only.... The parks, in which were the State House,
                                   just then completed, and the court-house, had been enclosed with
                                   post and rail fences, but nothing had been done to the streets
                                   except to remove the stumps from two or three of those most used.
                                   All of the noble old trees--walnuts, oaks, poplars, the like of
                                   which will never be seen again--had been cut down, and around the
                                   parks young locust and other inferior but rapidly growing trees
                                   had been set out. There were no sidewalks, and the streets most
                                   in use, after every rain, and for a good part of the year, were
                                   knee-deep with mud.36
                          The city's early growth was sedate, with the population
                         increasing from approximately 600 in 1823 to 2,692 by 1840. Although one
                         would expect to see a spike with the relocation of the General Assembly to
                         the new capital in 1825, there was a hiccup at best, with the population
                         reaching only about 760 by 1826. Much of the legislative traffic was tem-
                         porary, swelling the population during the session, and 
                         Indianapolis
                         was a
                         city that many others merely passed through on their way to growing
                         settlements or open land farther north. In October 1827 an 
                         Indianapolis
                         editor observed that "for a week our town has scarce been clear of
                         immigrant wagons." Still, the annual presence of the legislators
                         and their circle did help the local economy.37
                    The city's central location and designation as the state capital
                         also made it a magnet for a variety of other governmental activities. The
                         fed- 
                              Sec. 23; [William Hendricks], Governor's
                                        Message, Communicated to Both Houses of the General Assembly
                                        on Tuesday the 11th Instant [January 11, 1825]
                                   (Indianapolis
                                   , 1825), 9; Max R. Hyman and George S. Cottman, Centennial History and Handbook of Indiana
                                   (Indianapolis
                                   , 1915), 309.
                              36Hugh McCulloch, Men and
                              Measures of Half a Century: Sketches and Comments (
                                   New York,
                                   1888), 71.
                              37Max R. Hyman, The Journal
                                   Handbook of 
                                   Indianapolis
                                   (Indianapolis, 1902), 18; Carl
                                   Abbott, Boosters and Businessmen: Popular Economic
                                        Thought and Urban Growth in the Antebellum Middle West
                                   (Westport,
                                   Conn.
                                   , 1981), 19; Ignatius Brown, "History of
                                   Indianapolis
                                   from 1818," in Logan's Indianapolis
                                        Directory
                                   ([Indianapolis
                                   ], 1868), 6; Buley, Old
                                   Northwest, 2: 50-51; Madison, "Businessmen and the
                                   Business Community in Indianapolis
                                   ," 2.
                         
                          eral land office, for example,
                         established in Brookville
                         in 1823, removed to Indianapolis
                         just two years
                         later. As a Franklin County
                         historian lamented: "With the land
                         office there went hundreds of people to the new capital and to adjoining
                         counties which were being organized." Later, in the 1840s, newly
                         created state schools for the blind and deaf and a state hospital for the
                         insane were all located in the capital city.38
                    Throughout the 1820s and 1830s, 
                         Indianapolis
                         was not a significant exporter
                         of goods; most of the business it conducted was either internal to its own
                         needs or served its immediate hinterland. By the early 1830s it had become
                         apparent that the White River
                         was not navigable as far north as the
                              capital.39 The high cost and difficulty of
                         overland transportation greatly limited trade to and from the city. One
                         result of the lack of incoming as well as outgoing trade was that local
                         businessmen had to be general rather than specialist merchandisers. A
                         daybook of the Union Inn, dating from the mid-1830s, in addition to showing
                         lodging and boarding payments for men and horses, also records sales of
                         such diverse items as alcoholic beverages, bulk corn and apples, coffee,
                         rifles and shot, and furniture. What trade there was to distant points was
                         arduous at best. If supplies in town ran low, a local hostler might require
                         a month to travel to Cincinnati
                         and back with new goods. What outgoing
                         trade there was required a similar commitment of time and energy. In a
                         letter to his parents in 1823, Indianapolis
                         pioneer Calvin Fletcher
                         observed: "Our commerce is principly [sic] with 
                         New-Orleans.
                         Several boats will soon start from here for that place loaded with lumber,
                         pork, beef &c. When boats start in March, the hands get back some
                         time in July. "40
                    Within a few years, the question of Indianapolis
                         's economic vitali-
                         ty was being debated. Locals shared a sense that the city's early
                         economy, which was almost wholly mercantile, needed to yield to a more
                         sophisticated economic system that included manufacturing. The Indiana Journal in November 1827 observed that many of
                         the consumer items 
                              38August J. Reifel, History of
                                   Franklin County
                                   , Indiana (Indianapolis
                                   , 1915), 199;
                                   Bodenhamer and Barrows, Encyclopedia of
                                        Indianapolis
                                   , 397, 746-47.
                              39Bodenhamer and Barrows, Encyclopedia of Indianapolis
                              , 189-90, 1202.
                              40Bolton, "Early History of
                                   Indianapolis
                                   ," 168-69; Union Inn Day Book, 1833-36, in
                                   the John Elder Family Papers (BV 0257), Indiana Historical
                                   Society Library, Indianapolis
                                   ; Calvin Fletcher to Father and
                                   Mother, February 2, 1823, Box 1, Folder 1, Calvin Fletcher Papers
                                   (M 108), Indiana Historical Society Library.
                         
                         
                         
                              The Washington Foundry in 1830s Indianapolis
                                   . By the
                                   second and third decades of its existence, Indianapolis
                                   finally
                                   began to grow into a recognizable city.
                                   Groom & Smith's 
                                        Indianapolis
                                        Directory, City Guide, and Business Mirror
                                   (Indianapolis
                                   , 1855), courtesy of the Indiana Historical
                                   Society
                          then being imported from other places "will hereafter be
                         furnished by our own workmen, but we can hardly expect in the present age
                         of improvement to be able to compete with others without the aid of steam. If no individual has the capital necessary for
                         the purpose, let the united efforts of our citizens provide for the
                         erection of machinery, which would not only relieve us from excessive
                         drains of money, but afford employment to the industrious of almost every
                         age and capacity." And, indeed, several leading citizens joined
                         forces the next year to incorporate the Indianapolis
                         Steam Mill Company,
                         which built a three-story saw, grist, and wool-carding mill that opened in
                         1831. But four years later the business failed, "the victim of
                         inadequate transportation facilities, insufficient demand for its
                         products, and the miscalculations of energetic, forward-looking businessmen
                         who prematurely plunged into steam and factory production."41
                    For its first decade, Indianapolis
                         had no municipal government, but rather
                         operated under state statutes and the county governmental structure. 
                         Marion County
                         was established in 1821, with local officials appointed by the
                         state. The first local county election took place in 
                              41Indiana Journal,
                                   November 20, 1827; Madison, The Indiana Way,
                                   91-92. See also Bodenhamer and Barrows, Encyclopedia
                                        of Indianapolis
                                   , 808.
                         
                          1822, with county commissioners,
                         judges, a clerk, and a recorder taking office, but town business was
                         conducted under state law. In February 1832 the state legislature changed
                         the procedure for towns to become incorporated, and in September of that
                         year the town elected five trustees. The town's 1832 charter
                         defined their duties, along with those of the other town officers: clerk,
                         assessor, treasurer, and marshal. Indianapolis
                         was granted a special
                         charter by the General Assembly in 1836, which was followed in February
                         1838 by reincorporation and the adoption of another special charter.
                         Thereafter, Indianapolis
                         was governed by a town council, with powers of
                         taxation (limited at the time to the Mile Square), regulation, and keeping
                         the peace. This charter would remain in effect, with some modification,
                         until 1847, when Indianapolis
                         would be chartered as a city.42 This gradual transfer from state to local control parallels
                         what had happened earlier in the cities examined by Wade. It was part of
                         the process by which control of services and fiscal matters devolved from
                         the state to local governments, and it marked a significant stage of urban
                         maturation.43 For Indianapolis
                         , as will be seen,
                         the 1847 date of the first city charter not coincidentally occurred in a
                         watershed year in the city's history.
                    The nascent capital's commingling of Upland South and eastern
                         immigrants resulted in an admixture of cultural and other institutions and
                         pursuits. Much of the early social life of the town was of the kind that
                         would be expected in an isolated frontier settlement, with many tasks
                         accomplished cooperatively. Calvin and Sarah Hill Fletcher's
                         diaries and letters contain numerous references to interaction with their
                         neighbors for barn raisings, assistance with ailing family members,
                         sewing and quilting sessions, and myriad other tasks of daily life in the
                         wilderness that were lightened somewhat by helping each other through them.
                         The Fletchers cite a wide variety of amusements, including weddings,
                         Christmas and New Year parties, theater performances, circuses and animal
                         shows, candy pulling, and evenings of games such as dominoes.44
                    
                         42Bodenhamer and Barrows, Encyclopedia of Indianapolis
                         , 86-87, 404; Hyman, Journal Handbook of Indianapolis
                         , 22; Hyman and
                              Cottman, Centennial History, 316.
                         43Wade, The Urban Frontier,
                              271-72.
                         44Bachman, "Social Conditions in
                              Indianapolis
                              ," Ch. III, 16-17; Gayle Thornbrough, ed., The Diary of Calvin Fletcher, Vol. I, 1817-1838 (Indianapolis
                              , 1972), 48, 49n, 51, 73, 86-87,
                              101-2, 135-36, 254, 268-69, 369, 383, 403.
                    

                    

                    In the founding of more formal cultural institutions, however, the eastern
                         element tended to dominate: "[T]hey were influenced by a sense of
                         regional superiority and by New England Protestantism, which preached
                         civilization and Christianity to save the West--and ultimately the
                         nation--from barbarism and license. . . . Men such as James Blake, Isaac
                         Coe, Calvin Fletcher, and Samuel Merrill became involved in all forms of
                         civic and reform activities, constituting an informal network that shaped
                         much of the capital's character and affected its daily
                              life."45 As early as 1822, Calvin
                         Fletcher co-founded the Indianapolis
                         Polemic Society, in order to realize
                         "the mutual advantages resulting from Debating
                              Societies."46 In 1828, both a Handelian
                         singing society and the Indianapolis
                         Library Society were formed, followed
                         within five years by the Indiana Historical Society (1830) and the
                         Indianapolis
                         Lyceum/ Athenaeum (1831).47 While many of
                         these organizations lasted only a short time, they were often forerunners
                         of more permanent institutions that flourished by mid-century. They also
                         show the impetus toward cultural activity that recreated for educated
                         early settlers the milieu from which they came and that they believed to be
                         a necessary part of any city's path to prosperity.
                    The earliest religious meetings in the city, being few, were likely attended
                         "without regard to denomination," but distinct
                         congregations began forming as early as 1822, with the first Baptist group
                         organizing in that year and the Presbyterians in 1823.48 The founding of churches led in many cases to the
                         establishment of schools under religious auspices. The first Presbyterian
                         school was established at the church of that denomination in 1824. The
                         first Methodist school was established several years later, in 1829, and
                         the first Baptist school in 1832. In 1833-34, the county seminary was
                         built on University Square, followed by the Indianapolis
                         Female Institute,
                         which opened in 1837. One city chronicler commented of the latter that
                         "[i]t was a good school, but the Misses [Mary and Harriet]
                         Axtell," who ran the institute in its early years, "were
                         strongly imbued with the rather intolerant religious ideas of the old New
                         England 
                              45Bodenhamer and Barrows, Encyclopedia of Indianapolis
                              , 39.
                              46James Blake Papers (SC 99), Folder 1,
                                   Indiana Historical Society Library.
                              47Bodenhamer and Barrows, Encyclopedia of Indianapolis
                              , 40.
                              48Dunn, Greater
                                   Indianapolis
                              , 1:86-87.
                         
                          dispensation."49 Multi-denominational groups interested in social control and
                         welfare also developed fairly early in the city; these included the
                         Temperance Society of Marion County
                         in 1828, the Indiana Colonization
                         Society in 1829, and the Indianapolis
                         Benevolent Society in 1835.50
                    Because Indianapolis
                         was the capital, much social discourse was political in
                         nature. In the fall of 1824, for example, "in anticipation of the
                         [inaugural] meeting of the Legislature [in January 1825] the citizens
                         formed a 'mock' body . .. called the
                         'Indianapolis
                         Legislature,' the members of which
                         assigned themselves to any counties they chose, and discussed pretty much
                         the same questions as the real Legislature had discussed, or would when it
                              met."51 Often, members of the state
                         General Assembly, during their own legislative session, would attend
                         meetings of the "Indianapolis
                         Legislature," giving
                         citizens access to lawmakers that many today would envy. In addition, the
                         mock legislature was reportedly an unusually democratic body for the
                         time, as "it was a great resort of the ladies of the place, which
                         greatly added to the interest of the discussions." The presence
                         of the General Assembly also had a broader effect on the town.
                         "The influx of strangers, with new topics of thought and
                         conversation, excited the quiet villagers; and after the session opened
                         crowds of gaping natives witnessed the proceedings with unsated curios-
                              ity."52 Once the legislators departed,
                         however, Indianapolis
                         went back to being "a dull country village,
                         with no excitement beyond the annual sessions, when a little animation
                         was given to society and to trade. It seemed to have attained its
                         growth." For a good portion of the year, the town was cut off from
                         the rest of the state by impassable roads and non-navigable waterways. As
                         Ignatius Brown recalled several decades later, "It is impossible,
                         at present . .. to realize the situation of the early settlers after a
                         Spring thaw or a long wet spell, separated from civilization by sixty miles
                         of mud and slush, with unbridged streams, floating corduroys and
                         fathomless mud holes."53
                    
                    
                         49Brown, "History of Indianapolis
                              from
                              1818," 12; B. R. Sulgrove, History of
                                   Indianapolis
                                   and Marion County
                                   , Indiana (Philadelphia,
                              1884), 417; W. R. Holloway, Indianapolis
                                   : A Historical
                                   and Statistical Sketch of the Railroad City (Indianapolis
                              ,
                              1870), 61.
                         50Dunn, Greater Indianapolis
                         ,
                              1:447; Thornbrough, ed., Diary of Calvin Fletcher,
                              1:186n; Sulgrove, History of 
                                   Indianapolis,
                              379.
                         51Sulgrove, History of
                              Indianapolis
                         , 57.
                         52Bolton, "Early History of
                              Indianapolis
                              ," 170.
                         53Brown, "History of 
                              Indianapolis from
                              1818," 5, 15, 19.
                    

                    

                    The first roads around Indianapolis
                         were county roads leading to nearby
                         settlements such as Pendleton
                         and Mooresville. In 1821, in anticipation
                         of the removal of the capital, the General Assembly appropriated $100,000
                         for state road construction, in particular connections from 
                         Lawrenceburg
                         and Madison
                         to Indianapolis
                         , and then on to other growing towns including
                         Noblesville
                         and Crawfordsville
                         . Even with such improvements, however,
                         travel remained difficult. The first stagecoach between 
                         Madison and
                         Indianapolis
                         , a distance of about ninety miles, began operation in 1828,
                         and the trip took four days.54
                    The National Road, though planned to pass through Indiana, was originally
                         routed about thirty miles to the south of what became the city's
                         site. The Indiana General Assembly prevailed upon the federal government
                         to alter the route, and the road ultimately passed through the capital on
                         Washington Street. In addition, the Michigan Road connecting Madison
                         to
                         Lake Michigan 
                         also passed through town. Both roads were greeted with much
                         anticipation: "Permanent advantages are held forth, sufficient to
                         stimulate our citizens to be active in improvement, and offer many
                         inducements for emigrants to settle amongst us." Where the
                         National Road was concerned, however, one historian has held that
                         "its direct advantage beyond macadamizing Washington street, was
                         not at all equal to the anticipations of the citizens. It became a
                         thoroughfare for emigration to the Mississippi
                         and beyond but it left here
                         little of the deposit that was borne along by its current. It did a vast
                         deal for the West but not much for Indianapolis
                         ." For many years
                         the National Road suffered from the same difficult traveling conditions
                         for much of the year as did other routes radiating from 
                         Indianapolis
                         , and
                         neither it nor the Michigan Road brought the anticipated benefit of
                         significantly increased trade.55
                    Wade claimed that "nothing ... accelerated the rise of the Western
                         cities so much as the introduction of the steamboat."56 Some three decades later it was the coming of the
                         railroad that would prove the most significant event in the early history
                         of Indianapolis
                         . Infected by the rail- 
                              54Stickney, Pioneer
                                   Indianapolis
                              , 41; Leary, Indianapolis
                              , 19; Carmony, Indiana,
                                        1816-1850, 133.
                              55"A Memorial of the General
                                   Assembly of the state of Indiana ... on the subject of the great
                                   national road," in Laws of Indiana
                                   (1820-21), Ch. LXXV; Indianapolis
                                        Gazette, June
                                   12, 1827; Holloway, Indianapolis
                                   , 15-16; James
                                   M. Bergquist, "Tracing the Origins of a Midwestern
                                   Culture: The Case of Central Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, 77 (March 1981),
                                   30.
                              56Wade, The Urban
                                   Frontier, 70.
                         
                          road fever that had spread following
                         the completion in 1830 of the Baltimore & Ohio, the first 
                         U.S.
                         railroad, the General Assembly in February 1832 passed acts to incorporate
                         no fewer than five railroads that would originate in, terminate in, or pass
                         through the capital city. The Mammoth Internal Improvements Act of 1836
                         appropriated $1.3 million for completion of a rail line from 
                         Madison
                         to
                         Lafayette
                         by way of Columbus
                         , Indianapolis
                         , and Crawfordsville
                         , as well as
                         the same amount to assess the practicability of a route from 
                         Jeffersonville
                         to Crawfordsville
                         and "the faith of the state" to do the
                         same for a line from Fort Wayne
                         to Michigan City
                         .57
                    The collapse of the Internal Improvements initiative in 1839 left many
                         half-finished projects and significantly slowed railroad construction. As
                         a result, the line from Madison
                         to Indianapolis
                         , the first operating
                         railroad in the state, was not completed until October 1847. It would be
                         hard to overestimate the impact of the railroad on the city; even so, the
                         editor of the Indiana State Journal waxed hyperbolic in
                         describing the euphoria that accompanied the opening of the line:
                         "Indianapolis
                         has changed. Friday, October 1st, 1847, was an era
                         in our history. On that day we were linked with commerce. From the
                         beginning of the world until that day, the rattling of the cars and the
                         whistle of the locomotive were unknown sounds, but from then until the end
                         of civilization, perhaps to the end of time, those sounds will never die
                              away."58 While more prosaic, later
                         assessments agree in spirit with the editor's sentiments.
                         Historians at the state's centennial remarked on the
                         transformative nature of the availability of rail commerce:
                         "Business at once revived and new stores were opened, and new
                         factories started, while others were projected. Up to that time the stores
                         kept a little of everything, but a railroad demanded a division of trade,
                         and stores for dry goods and stores for groceries were opened. The price of
                         property advanced, and a new city government organized."59 The population grew dramatically as well. While in
                         the city's first twenty-five years the population had not yet
                         reached 5,000, in the five years following the opening of the Madison
                         & Indianapolis
                         , the town grew to 6,500 in 1849, 8,000 in 1850, and
                         10,800 
                              57Laws of Indiana
                                   (1831-32), Ch. CXLIV-CXLIX; Carmony, Indiana,
                                        1816-1850, 196.
                              58Indiana State Journal,
                                   November 2, 1847.
                              59Hyman and Cottman, Centennial
                                        History, 319-20.
                         
                          in 1852.60 The
                         population quadrupled in the decade after the coming of the railroad, and
                         "by 1870 the railroads had made Indianapolis
                         the commercial as
                         well as the political capital of Indiana.61
                    Wade describes the "town-making mania" that gripped the
                         trans-Allegheny Allegheny West in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth
                         centuries, and comments that "by the twenties the West was
                         littered with ambitious towns that never grew. . . . In retrospect it
                         would be easy to account for the failure of each. Some were too easily
                         inundated at high water, others too remote from a navigable stream, and
                         still others were too close to already successful towns."62 Indianapolis
                         fits two of the three criteria in this
                         last sentence, so what were the elements that enabled it to endure, and
                         then to flourish, in the decades after Wade's narrative ends? Why
                         did Indianapolis
                         survive in spite of its lacking Pred's
                         "geographical expressions of initial advantage," such as
                         access to transportation, and having poor drainage conditions that led to
                         early seasons of disease?
                    The foremost factor must be its status as state capital, which auto-
                         matically made the town the center of a certain degree of activity that
                         proceeded regardless of other less than ideal conditions. Wade, as noted
                         earlier, claims that "the central nexus of the urbanization of the
                         West was commerce."63 In 
                         Indianapolis
                         ,
                         however, merchants and other boosters of the town's economy
                         faced challenges more daunting than those in Wade's case study
                         cities. While there clearly was a "business community"
                         in antebellum Indianapolis
                         , its members had to devote much of their
                         attention during the town's first two decades to
                         "numerous attempts to end their near isolation." At the
                         end of the 1830s the reality they and their fellow residents faced, in
                         Madison's words, was "an unfinished canal that was
                         useless for transportation purposes, a railroad less than one-third
                         complete, and several roads that caused more dissatisfaction than
                              pride."64 In that situation the
                         governmental "industry" provided just enough economic
                         activity that Madison was able to survive the lean years of barely
                         passable roads and a non-navigable river.
                    
                         60Geib, 
                              Indianapolis
                         , 25;
                              Abbott, Boosters and Businessmen, 19.
                         61Teaford, Cities of the
                                   Heartland, 39.
                         62Wade, The Urban Frontier, 32,
                              33.
                         63Ibid., 66.
                         64Madison, "Businessmen and the Business
                              Community in Indianapolis
                              ," 9, 25.
                    

                    

                    The era of the "urban frontier" in the Hoosier capital drew
                         to a close when the railroad finally arrived, giving impetus to the
                         city's rapid development during the 1850s. By the outbreak of the
                         Civil War, Indianapolis
                         boasted a population of 18,611 and had clearly
                         become not only the governmental but also the economic capital of the
                         state.

               
               
               
                    REVIEWS




                    The Terror of 
                         Terre Haute Bud Taylor and the
                         1920s By John D. Wright (Indianapolis
                         : Dog Ear Publishing,
                         2008. Pp.vii, 320. Illustrations, index. Paperbound, $20.00.)


                    During the 1920s, Terre Haute
                         , Indiana, achieved a presence in American
                         life that would be unavailable to a city of 65,000 today. Sergei
                         Rachmaninoff played piano in its opera house. Will Rogers made jokes about
                         its train station. The city had its name casually dropped in the songs of
                         Cole Porter and in the stories of Ring Lardner.
                    Terre Haute
                         was also home to a number of individuals who had made their names
                         nationally. In the summer of 1922, renowned labor leader Eugene Debs was
                         living at 451 North 8th Street, having been delivered there the previous
                         December by a torchlight parade of well-wishers. Debs had just returned
                         from the Federal Penitentiary in 
                         Atlanta, where he had been imprisoned
                         for delivering a speech in Canton,
                         Ohio
                         , criticizing the nation's
                         involvement in the Great War. Meanwhile, little more than a block away and
                         a week later, hometown boxing sensation Charles "Bud"
                         Taylor thrilled a capacity crowd of 1,400 at the Grand Opera House with his
                         first round knockout of Solly Epstein.
                    In a near perfect merger of timing and talent, Bud Taylor ascended the
                         ranks of the bantamweight division during the decade commonly referred to
                         as "The Golden Age of Boxing." The Walker Act, passed by
                         the New York
                         State Legislature in 1919, had just sanctioned prizefighting
                         in the nation's most populous state. The American public quickly
                         embraced a sport that had been illegal just a few years before. Opportu-
                         nity beckoned to a generation of young men who saw cash purses of five or
                         ten dollars as an attractive alternative to a day of hard manual labor.
                    They soon discovered the work of boxing could be far more brutal. During the
                         year 1923, for instance, Taylor fought fifteen separate bouts-- enduring
                         three ten-round bouts in the month of July alone. He won the vast  majority of those fights and still
                         managed to crack a rib, break a thumb, fracture his right hand and wrist,
                         and have his front teeth rammed through his lower lip. Taylor also meted
                         out a staggering amount of physical abuse. Two of his ring opponents,
                         Frankie Jerome and Clever Sensio, died from massive head trauma soon after
                         their bouts with Taylor. In both cases, the victor was fighting again
                         within a month.
                    Biographer John D. Wright explores the story of this local hero and temporary
                         celebrity with care and balance. Understandably, the bulk of
                         Wright's portrayal is committed to Taylor's professional
                         career, which almost perfectly matched boxing's ascent in
                         popularity across America
                         . Curiously, just as Taylor's skills
                         began to diminish, so did the broad appeal of his sport. His effort to
                         build an outdoor boxing arena in Terre Haute
                         during the Depression
                         ended in failure. Over the years that followed, the aging fighter divorced
                         his second wife, drank prodigiously, and nearly doubled his fighting
                         weight. He died in a large city far from his hometown before reaching 60,
                         forgotten by all but a few boxing historians.
                    Bud Taylor's almost inevitable fall from grace might approach the
                         clich of a Hollywood film, but the author gives flesh and blood to this
                         profile with a skillful mix of apocrypha and documentation. Like the best
                         folklorists, Wright never lets the ring of truth deafen him to a good
                         story. He displays a love for his subject and a love for the sport
                         --absolutely essential in his earnest effort to capture those who may open
                         this book with scant interest in either.

                    TOM ROZNOWSKI is a musician and writer living in Bloomington
                         , Indiana.
                         His book "An American Hometown--Terre Haute
                         , Indiana in
                         1927" is forthcoming.
               
               
                    Getting Open  The Unknown Story of Bill Garrett and the
                              Integration of College Basketball By Tom Graham and Rachel Graham
                         Cody (Bloomington
                         : Indiana University Press, 2008. Pp. xiii, 255.
                         Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $24.00; paperbound,
                         $14.95.)

                    When All-American George Taliaferro led Indiana University to its first Big
                         Ten football championship in 1945, its basketball program was still three
                         years away from integrating. The Hoosiers reflected the Big Ten norm
                         regarding African Americans in basketball. Operating under a "gen-
                         tleman's agreement," the conference was lily-white on the
                         hardwood.
                    Shelbyville
                         's Bill Garrett changed all that in 1948, but only after
                         a high school career marked by racism. Until 1943, segregation was endorsed
                         by  the Indiana High School Athletic
                         Association, which barred Catholic and all-black schools (including Tal-
                         iaferro's alma mater Gary Roosevelt and Indianapolis
                         's
                         Crispus Attucks) from competing in its state tournaments. Among the black
                         players whose basketball careers were restricted by this segregation was
                         Johnny Wilson. Though he led Anderson
                         High School to the state championship
                         and was named Mr. Basketball, none of the state's big-time
                         colleges recruited him. The snubbed athlete settled for Anderson College,
                         where he earned small-college All-American honors.
                    Following Wilson, Garrett was one of three blacks who started for
                         Shelbyville
                         's Golden Bears, derisively referred to in parts of
                         Indiana as "The Black Bears." In their drive to the 1947
                         state title, the Shelbyville
                         team was refused service by an 
                         Indianapolis
                         hotel where they planned to rest after their semistate opener. Overcoming
                         the last-minute scramble for accommodations, the Golden Bears beat
                         Lawrenceburg
                         to advance to--and win--the Final Four.
                    After leading his team to the state title and being named Mr. Basketball,
                         Garrett enrolled at Tennessee State. He was, however, plucked off the
                         southern campus by Indiana University's Coach Branch McCracken,
                         who reluctantly bowed to pressure exerted by the African American commu-
                         nity and by progressive university president Herman B Wells. Indiana
                         University was barely integrated in the late forties. Of 12,000 students,
                         only 200 were black. It was a difficult time for President Wells, who was
                         also dealing with public outrage over the controversial Kinsey Report.
                    Once situated at IU, Garrett was embraced by such teammates as Phil Buck, who
                         later coached at Frankfort and Anderson Madison Heights; Bill Tosheff, who
                         worked in the Gary
                         steel mills when he was only 13 and came to IU after
                         serving as an Army Air Force pilot; and Gene Ring, who later coached
                         against Garrett in Indianapolis
                         . "Bill was the shortest center
                         in the Big Ten," said Tosheff, who roomed with him. "He
                         was barely 6-3, but was greased lightning."
                    In Garrett's three years, IU won 50 of 66 games. His senior season,
                         the Hoosiers, with a 19-3 record, were ranked as high as fifth in the
                         country, but road losses at Minnesota
                         and Illinois
                         , the conference
                         champion, cost them the Big Ten title.
                    Garrett was lionized during his IU career, but his most revealing comments
                         about his college experience were made to a Dayton
                         reporter in his junior
                         year. With some hindsight, Garrett said he might have attended an all-black
                         college because too many people at IU treated him as if they were doing him
                         a great favor. Significantly, Garrett made the needed breakthrough in the
                         Big Ten: one year after he graduated, five conference teams listed black
                         players on their roster.
                    Author Tom Graham, who grew up in Garrett's hometown and played  basketball for IU as a freshman, is
                         well-suited to tell readers of his subject's adversities on the
                         way to becoming IU's first black basketball player. Graham and
                         co-author Rachel Graham Cody should be congratulated for the thoroughness
                         of their research and for the book which resulted from their seven-year
                         project.
                    JOHN MUTKA has worked for the 
                         Kokomo
                         Tribune, Frankfort
                              Times, and northwest Indiana Post
                              Tribune over a fifty-year career. He is a member of the Indiana
                         Sportswriters and Sportscasters Hall of Fame and a former Indiana
                         Sportswriter of the Year.
               

               
                    Enduring Nations Native Americans in the Midwest Edited by R. David
                         Edmunds (Champaign
                         : University of Illinois Press, 2008. Pp. ix, 283.
                         Illustrations, notes, index. Clothbound, $70.00; paperbound, $20.00.) 

                    Academics have long recognized R. David Edmunds as a leading scholar of the
                         Native American experience in the Midwest. His contacts with other
                         historians enabled him to enlist a dozen specialists for Enduring Nations: Native Americans in the Midwest. Their
                         articles focus mostly on Indian and white relations in the western 
                         Great Lakes
                         from the later decades of the seventeenth century to the early years
                         of the twenty-first century. One of the book's themes illu-
                         minates the role of Native leaders, including mtis (people of mixed her-
                         itage), as they fought the government's forced removal of
                         Indians to the West during the 1830s. A second thread emphasizes the
                         important economic issues that confronted Indian peoples as they
                         struggled to retain their heritage. This battle continues to this day and
                         promises to accelerate in the future. "Demographers
                         argue," Edmunds writes, "that if current
                         [intermarriage] trends continue, by 2080 almost 90 percent of all Native
                         American people in the United States
                         will be of less than one-half Indian
                         by lineage" (p. 10). The challenges of these trends, however,
                         pale in comparison to those of past centuries, when Indians lost their
                         children and their lands.
                    Indian leaders in the western Great Lakes
                         employed various survival
                         techniques while confronting removal. Thomas Burnell Colbert portrays
                         Keokuk as a worthy Sauk chief, even when compared with Black Hawk; he was
                         an accommodationist who surrendered land to the government and enjoyed a
                         positive relationship with federal officials. Bradley Birzer describes Jean
                         Baptiste Richardville, Miami principal chief, as a mtis who maneuvered his
                         cultural advantages to acquire great 
                         wealth. Although Richardville eventually accumulated nearly 29,000 acres
                         in Indiana by 1840 while the tribe ceded away its lands, he also used his
                         privately held property to provide sanctuary for Miamis facing removal.
                    Four contributors examine an especially interesting topic--the essential role
                         of Indian women. Lucy Eldersveld Murphy documents the lead mining
                         activities of Native females in the Upper Mississippi
                         Valley. Susan
                         Sleeper-Smith concentrates on the history of a white captive named Frances
                         Slocum, the "White Indian," who lived with her Miami
                         relatives for more than sixty years. The Miami used Slocum's race
                         to avoid removal by presenting their community as essentially white. Con-
                         sidering her experience, Edmunds questions whether "Native
                         American identity is a genetic trait, or ... a subscription to a certain
                         set of cultural values accepted by other members of the tribal
                         community" (p. 6). Rebecca Kugel looks at gender and class while
                         examining the metis of the western Great Lakes
                         and the issue of race during
                         the second quarter of the nineteenth century. Finally, Melissa L. Meyer
                         considers the traditional social support function of Anishinaabe (Ojibwe)
                         women on the White Earth Reservation in Minnesota
                         and follows her topic
                         into the twenty-first century.
                    The contributors to Enduring Nations offer readers
                         stimulating arguments. Alan Shackelford, for example, contends that
                         during the late prehistoric period the Illinois
                         Indian tribe was attracted
                         to the area west of the Mississippi River
                         by the availability of bison,
                         and not driven into the area by the invading Iroquois. Gregory Evans
                         Dowd's splendid examination of nineteenth-century rumors to
                         examine murder mysteries exemplifies the interpretive dimension of the
                         historian's craft. Finally, for those more intrigued by the his-
                         tory behind contemporary issues, Brian Hosmer reviews the role played by
                         gaming, accepted by many Indians as the new buffalo, on a Menominee
                         reservation in Wisconsin
                         . Enduring Nations belongs in
                         personal, public, and academic libraries; professors should include it
                         in their lists of required reading for American history survey courses as
                         well as for Native American history offerings.

                    RAYMOND E. HAUSER is an ethnohistorian teaching at Northern Illinois
                         University, DeKalb.
               

               

               
                    American Pogrom: The East St. Louis 
                         Race Riot and Black
                         Politics By Charles Lumpkins (Athens
                         : Ohio University Press,
                         2008. Pp. xiv, 312. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                         $55.00; paperbound, $24.95.)


                    In American Pogrom, historian Charles Lumpkins upends the
                         dominant narrative of the 1917 
                         East St. Louis
                         race riot not only by
                         placing the African American experience at the center but also by arguing
                         that the riot was a strategic effort to negate black political organizing.
                         Whereas previous scholars placed the responsibility for the riot on
                         white working-class males concerned about social strife, Lumpkins argues
                         that city elites, women, and political bosses played an integral role in
                         this destructive demonstration of white superiority. Lumpkins offers a
                         provocative interpretation that the riot represented a growing battle for
                         political clout between black and white elites.
                    Lumpkins lays out his argument chronologically. He begins with the
                         establishment of 
                         East St. Louis
                         's African American community and
                         then outlines its political structure from 1898 until 1915. During this
                         period, African Americans began to assert their autonomy in the political
                         arena by shifting from a typical patronage system to "a black
                         political infrastructure independent of white political bosses"
                         (p. 45). It was this "increasingly assertive black pop-
                         ulation" (p. 73) and white elites' unfounded paranoia
                         over southern black migration that prompted whites to enact drastic
                         measures to reduce black migration or to force African Americans from the
                         city. Using commission reports and newspapers, the author reconstructs
                         both the May and July incidents. Lumpkins reveals in detail how blacks
                         responded with armed self-defense to white attacks, an important fact
                         buried by contemporaries and scholars alike. This historical erasure is
                         remarkable considering that the city's predominant black
                         communities in the south end remained untouched by rioters.
                    Although the pogrom metaphor is effective in showing the desire of
                         participants to completely rid 
                         East St. Louis
                         of its black residents, the
                         author's omission of a sustained discussion of the use of daily
                         violence as a means of social control weakens his thesis. Throughout the
                         book, Lumpkins demonstrates that blacks in 
                         East St. Louis
                         knew that they
                         were "not safe as long as most white Illinoisans held contempt for
                         black people" (p. 61). Yet, he only briefly discusses
                         blacks' everyday experiences with violence (pp. 19, 37). In his
                         book, The Making of a Lynching Culture: Violence and
                              Vigilantism in Central Texas
                              , 1836- 1916 (2004), William D.
                         Carrigan asserts that in central Texas
                         whites "remembered
                         extralegal violence as a just and necessary part of their his-
                         tory" (p. 13). Lumpkins's book ignores the work of
                         scholars who  study daily violence and
                         terror against blacks in the Deep South, and thus he loses the opportunity
                         to consider how social control via racial violence played an integral part
                         in daily race relations in the Midwest and other parts of the North.
                         Despite this shortcoming, Lumpkins demonstrates that black midwesterners
                         occupied a curious position in the social hierarchy--simultaneously
                         integral parts of the machine yet living under the constant threat of
                         violent repression.
                    Lumpkins's monograph focuses on the black experience within 
                         East St. Louis
                         politics and the interwar-era riots, but it also demonstrates the
                         resiliency of this African American community. Beyond challenging the
                         accepted motivations for racial violence in urban areas in the first
                         decades of the twentieth century, he offers an in-depth view of the actors,
                         social organizations, and political structures of black communities, which
                         allowed African Americans to create and sustain their lives in the face of
                         racial oppression.

                    ASHLEY M. HOWARD is a graduate student in history and African American
                         studies at the University of Illinois. Her research interests include urban
                         rebellions, African Americans in the midwest, and the history of
                         violence.
               

               
                    Sin in the City: 
                         Chicago and Revivalism, 1880-1920
                         By
                         Thekla Ellen Joiner (Columbia
                         : University of Missouri Press, 2007. Pp. xiv,
                         271. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $39.95.)
                    After one particularly bruising encounter with Gilded Age clerics who
                         considered themselves inconvenienced by Dwight L. Moody's urban
                         evangelism, the lay leader remarked: " [S]ave me from the devil
                         and ministers." Moody might have added to that list future
                         generations of feminist historians who would find fault with the Third
                         Awakening's "gendered theology" which
                         "marginalized women" while "ritualizing racial
                         superiority and ethnic animosity" that privileged white
                         middle-class morality (pp. 14, 17). Thekla Joiner asserts that the roots
                         of the modern religious right and its "dedication to imposing its
                         moral, social, and racial authority upon the nation" (p. 231) can
                         be found in three revivals staged in Chicago
                         between 1893 and 1918.
                    Joiner makes little effort to join the sixty-year interval between the
                         revivals of Billy Sunday and the rise of Ronald Reagan. Instead, readers
                         are expected to accept a linkage that the author sees between the current
                         religious right "who feel overwhelmed and embattled by
                         evil" (p. 232) and their evangelical forefathers who sought to
                         usher in a second Eden by keeping women in their place. So,  Moody's World's Fair
                         Revival of 1893 is reduced to a redemptive tale of "domestic
                         morality" where righteous women "offer metaphysical
                         restraint" to sinful males (pp. 96, 104). The author further
                         generalizes the revival as a strategic Protestant tendency to convert those
                         "perceived as inferior to themselves" (p. 108).
                    Joiner seems uninterested in the social and political forces through which
                         Chicago
                         landed the Columbian Exposition or in the symbolic significance
                         of Daniel Burnham's White City. The revival's many
                         meanings, developed in the thoughtful work of David Burg, Reid Badger,
                         Stanley Applebaum, Robert Rydell, and others is completely ignored. Joiner
                         acknowledges the staff of the Moody Bible Institute in her research, but
                         does not cite Moody's papers in her study. Perhaps that is why she
                         has Mr. Moody dying in 1896 (p. 117) when he went off to his reward three
                         years later, and why she gives such short shrift to his relentless,
                         persuasive preaching on the sacrificial mother and the wayward son, which
                         only makes a brief appearance on page 103 of her text.
                    J. Wilbur Chapman makes but a guest appearance in the "simultane-
                         ous revival" he staged in Chicago
                         with song leader Charles
                         Alexander in 1910. Alexander does not appear at all. The author
                         characterizes their campaign as an exercise in status anxiety for white
                         middle-class males "concerned about their power in soci-
                         ety" and threatened by "the impurity and low morals of
                         working class immigrants" (pp. 120, 126). Chapman was actually a
                         strong supporter of working-class rights and his ministry more than a
                         recitation of "the virtuous and submissive female"
                         (p.167), but one will hardly find him here in Joiner's
                         summary.
                    When Sunday, an advance man for Chapman's revivals, comes to 
                         Chicago
                         in 1918, he becomes (according to Joiner) the mouthpiece for
                         "fundamentalist fears that women had abandoned their domestic
                         assignments" (p. 214). She caricatures Sunday as a front man
                         for the advocates of Prohibition who see "foreigners and blacks as
                         inferior to whites" (p. 202). Sunday's work, according to
                         Joiner, is "a showcase for religious indoctrination"
                         driven by "consensus-forming rituals" and intended to
                         produce families that will sanctify "the industrial
                         order" (pp. 218, 221).
                    Readers hoping to better understand the many meanings of religious revivals
                         as civic and cultural spectacle and as individuals' searches for
                         spiritual significance will be disappointed in Sin in the City. The book
                         claims to be a study of Chicago
                         and revivalism over forty years of municipal
                          history, but it is little of either. Instead, the author appears to
                         define first and then observe. As a result, religious revivals in
                         America's second city are little more than ciphers that chart the
                         way toward "demonizing those outside evangelicalism's
                         domestic ideal" (p. 241).

                    BRUCE EVENSEN is a professor in the College of Communication at DePaul
                         University, Chicago.
               

               
               
                    Disunion! The Coming of the American Civil War 1789-1859
                         By Elizabeth R. Varon (
                         Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press,
                         2008. Pp. xii, 455. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                         $30.00.)

                    A fierce passion for politics and a corrosive anxiety over national purpose
                         drove three generations of post-Revolutionary Americans to bring down
                         their Union. Ideologically considered, argues Elizabeth R. Varon in this
                         excellent synthesis of the coming of the U.S.
                         Civil War, the United States
                         ' "more perfect" Union carried within
                         itself from its founding the germ of disunion. Talk of disunion was never
                         absent even from the hopeful political vision of the 
                         U.S. as a people
                         held together by bonds of interest, goodwill, and rational calculation.
                         Fears abounded from the outset. Fear of foreign and internal enemies, of
                         impure morality, of tainted faith in God, of corrupt use of public power,
                         of economic collapse--the American nation had at hand the rich
                         ingredients of its demise as national boundaries expanded and political
                         conflicts multiplied. Once linked to the debate over slavery, disunion
                         became the one fear that held them all.
                    In one sense, Varon tells a familiar story of the years from 1798 to 1859,
                         based on the changes and continuities in national political leadership
                         and parties, popular political culture, and the well-known public
                         benchmarks of national collapse: territorial expansion, North-South eco-
                         nomic and social divergence over slavery, Constitutional struggle and
                         repair (featuring the Missouri
                         Crisis, the Kansas
                         Crisis, and Dred Scott),
                         and the final moral crucible that made slavery the sticking point. She is
                         especially good on the rise of the Republican Party as a catalyst for
                         the national grappling with disunion. Varon has worked in key primary
                         sources and provides sharp, critical assessments of recent scholarship use-
                         fully synthesized. And although she is not inattentive to other issues in
                         the American political firmament, Varon, like most modern historians of the
                         era, understands slavery as the central, transgressive moral and polit-
                         ical issue leading to the dissolution of the 
                         United States.
                    What, then, does the focus on disunion add to our understanding? For one, it
                         puts the spotlight on ideological conflict to suggest that there never
                         was a time when American national public life was not extreme.
                         "Disunion" became a key weapon in the fight club that was
                         American politics. Purists used it to prophesy final judgment. Political
                         critics from abolitionists to pro-slavery zealots used it as an ultimate
                         threat or accusation. Nearly everyone in the political arena saw disunion
                         as a powerful process of sectional alienation that called for constant
                         vigilance and suspicion. In taking this view, Varon heightens our sense of
                         such language as basic to  how politics
                         worked. Too, Varon is successful in showing that a focus on disunion
                         provides a way to understand how slavery took on the political weight
                         equal to its moral transgressions; "disunion" became both
                         a desire and a doom in the partisan slavery struggle.
                    Varon's is a narrative told with liveliness and clarity, though of
                         course some features of antebellum politics emerge as less well-lighted
                         than others. For example, her analysis tends to underplay the intensity
                         and flexibility of Americans' religious faith as a means for
                         understanding the national crisis. In the same way, race takes a back seat
                         to the institution of slavery, somewhat underplaying many of the darker
                         impulses of white American political power and national expansion. And,
                         strangely, she gives very little attention to the meaning of
                         "Union" (the term is not even indexed) as the good twin
                         of her subject. More attention to Americans' desire for
                         wholeness, permanence, and harmony, even as a fantasy, might have given an
                         extra edge to this very fine narrative of the great national
                         unraveling.

                    STEVEN M. STOWE, Indiana University, Bloomington
                         , is working on a
                         study of personal texts, historical practice, and the end of the 
                         U.S. Civil
                         War.
               

               
                    Presidents, Diplomats, and Other Mortals Edited by J.
                         Garry Clifford and Theodore A. Wilson (
                         Columbia: University of Missouri
                         Press, 2007. Pp. x, 350. Notes, index. $39.95.)


                    This volume is a collection of essays in honor of Robert H. Ferrell, the dis-
                         tinguished diplomatic historian and biographer of Harry Truman. The essays,
                         composed by Ferrell's former students and friends, cover a wide
                         range of subjects from Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation to
                         regime change in modern American foreign policy. Some of the essays deal
                         with obscure figures: George Kennan's uncle and namesake, whose
                         influential travel writing introduced Americans to the mysteries of a
                         Moscow where his nephew would later serve; or Lawrence Dennis, a minor
                         diplomat who played a major role in early twentieth-century relations
                         between the United States
                         and Nicaragua
                         . Other essays focus on minor
                         episodes in major careers: Franklin D. Roosevelt's brief meeting
                         with King Ibn Saud after the Yalta conference; or Ronald Reagan's
                         Hollywood experiences with the science fiction stories and scripts that
                         were later alleged to enhance his fascination with missile defense. The
                         essays focused on recent foreign policy developments take a critical view
                         of Clinton-era interventions and the controversial buildup to the war in
                         Iraq.
                    
                    There is no thesis that holds the essays together; there are no conclusions
                         that sum up the contributions in the collected chapters. Instead, and
                         appropriately, the final two essays provide personal remembrances of Pro-
                         fessor Ferrell. Those chapters nicely capture Ferrell's ability to
                         combine high-quality research with compassionate and effective teaching
                         and mentorship. Any reader of the last two essays will be impressed by a
                         career that could easily stand as an ideal version of a successful Ameri-
                         can academic life--Mr. Chips with publications.
                    Doing diplomatic history is not easy. It involves both understanding
                         complicated trends and odd events that occur all around the world and
                         learning to see those trends and events from the peculiar perspectives of
                         the politicians and policymakers who encountered them for the first time.
                         It rests at the nexus of international relations and biography and
                         requires a careful balancing of the personal and the political aspects in
                         controversial stories. Through his scholarship and teaching Robert Fer-
                         rell has clearly trained an impressive group of diplomatic historians. This
                         sample of their work confirms that contribution, even if the collected
                         essays do not develop or advance any other theme or thesis.

                    ROBERT A. STRONG is Wilson Professor of Politics at Washington and Lee
                         University.
               

               
                    With All Deliberate Speed Implementing Brown v. Board of
                              Education Edited by Brian J. Daugherity and Charles C. Bolton
                         (Fayetteville
                         : University of Arkansas Press, 2008, Pp. xvi, 339. Notes,
                         index. $24.95.)


                    May 17, 2004 marked the fiftieth anniversary of the 
                         United States Supreme
                         Court's unanimous decision that racial segregation in public
                         schools violated the Fourteenth Amendment and thus was unconstitutional.
                         To this day, the impact and legacy of this landmark case continues to be
                         analyzed by scholars, national leaders, politicians, and community
                         activists. In With All Deliberate Speed: Implementing Brown
                              v. Board of Education, Brian Daugherity and Charles Bolton bring
                         together a cadre of prominent academicians, mostly historians, from twelve
                         different states, to present a broad assessment of how well the Brown
                         decision was implemented. Each of the twelve authors provides unique
                         perspectives on the importance of African American activism during the
                         1940s and 1950s, especially the crucial role played by the NAACP; the
                         deep-rooted racism that opposed school integration at every turn; and
                         the importance of various aspects of both the state and federal government.
                               Overall, as noted in the
                         editors' introductory chapter, the articles in this volume
                         demonstrate that despite the numerous difficulties, racially segregated
                         public education legally ended "through a combination of sustained
                         black protest and litigation, and uneven federal support" (p.
                         xvi).
                    Within these pages, Johanna Miller Lewis, J. Michael McElreath, and co-editor
                         Daugherity provide us with valuable insights into the confrontations and
                         national attention associated with the implementation of the Brown decision
                         in Arkansas
                         , North Carolina
                         and Virginia
                         . Vernon Burton, Lewie Reece,
                         Thomas O'Brien, and co-editor Bolton focus their studies on the
                         power that black American activists wielded to force the realignment of
                         the political landscape between the state and federal government during
                         the 1940s and 1950s, in the states of 
                         South Carolina
                         , Georgia, and
                         Mississippi
                         , to comply with the Brown decision. Finally, Caroline Emmons,
                         Bradley Skelcher, Peter Moran, and Jayne Beike explore how the movement to
                         end segregated public education occurred rather uneventfully in
                         Florida
                         , Delaware
                         , Missouri
                         , and Indiana, compared to the complex nature
                         of school desegregation plans in Milwaukee
                         and Las Vegas
                         . All in all, these
                         scholars conclude that despite the internal debates within the various
                         African American communities, the quest to implement the Brown decision
                         never wavered for most black American civil rights leaders.
                    Without question, With All Deliberate Speed adds much to
                         our understanding of the history and legacy of the Brown decision and
                         also raises significant questions about the broader civil rights
                         movement. This carefully researched and lucidly written volume is a
                         must-read for those interested in this crucial period in American and
                         African American history. All parties involved in this venture should be
                         highly commended for their pathbreaking and much-needed collection. The
                         one shortcoming is the lack of a coherent analysis of the roles and
                         activities of black American women in these various campaigns. Despite
                         this weakness, this is an exceptional volume.

                    ERIC R. JACKSON is Associate Professor and Assistant Chair of History,
                         and Director of the Institute for Freedom Studies, at Northern Kentucky
                         University. He is working on a project that examines the history of
                         African American religion and the Black American church movement in
                         northern Kentucky.
               

               
               
                    The Age of Impeachment  American Constitutional Culture since 1960 By
                         David E. Kyvig (
                         Lawrence
                         : University Press of Kansas, 2008. Pp. xiii, 482.
                         Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $34.95.) 

                    Historian David Kyvig is the author of an award-winning book on federal
                         constitutional amendments, Explicit and Authentic Acts
                         (1996), which provides perhaps our best study of the general history of the
                         amendments process and the amendments to the 
                         U.S.
                         Constitution. In his new
                         book, Kyvig notes that amendments are one "repair device"
                         that was built into the Constitution to be used if the instrument failed
                         to function as expected or desired (p. vii). The impeachment mechanism, he
                         suggests, is another. And thus this study of impeachments is a follow-up of
                         sorts to his earlier examination of amendments and a consideration of how
                         our experience with these features of the Constitution have both realized
                         and deviated from the purposes and expectations that led to their inclusion
                         in the document in the first place.
                    The Age of Impeachment does not provide a comprehensive
                         history of federal impeachments. Rather, Kyvig is concerned with the
                         "impeachment culture" of American national politics
                         since the mid-twentieth century. The book is framed as an attempt to answer
                         the question of why federal impeachments have become more common since 1961
                         than they were earlier in American history. The Senate tried federal
                         impeachments in only eleven cases prior to 1960, but it has held four
                         trials since then. Moreover, the idea of impeachment has been seriously
                         raised in a number of other cases, targeting officials from Chief Justice
                         Earl Warren to President George W. Bush. Kyvig is not alone in suggesting
                         that we have entered a new "age of impeachment" in which
                         political conflict routinely involves the use of such unconventional
                         weapons.
                    The book is not organized to systematically examine that thesis, however.
                         Instead it provides a case-by-case study of episodes in which serious
                         arguments were made for impeaching a federal official since 1960,
                         beginning with Earl Warren and running through Bill Clinton. The chap-
                         ters cover a range of figures in between, from Abe Fortas and William O.
                         Douglas, Spiro Agnew and Richard Nixon, to Ronald Reagan and Harry
                         Claiborne, Walter Nixon and Alcee Hastings. The individual chapters are
                         fascinating, and bring to light new detail on the controversies and
                         politics surrounding these figures. They will be essential reading for any-
                         one interested in any of these individuals. Even in discussing well-worn
                         cases, such as the criticisms of Earl Warren's tenure on the
                         Court, Kyvig is able to find new angles and materials to advance our
                         understanding of these episodes. He offers less support  for the claim that the last half century is
                         really a distinctive and coherent political era relative to the impeach-
                         ment power. It remains unclear that there are meaningful connections to be
                         drawn between the impeachment and acquittal of Bill Clinton on the one hand
                         and the impeachment and removal of Judge Harry Claiborne on the other.
                         Likewise, there is not enough examination of the pre-1960 period given to
                         evaluate whether the modern era is importantly different from, say, the
                         early twentieth century when five judges were impeached, or the
                         mid-nineteenth century when a variety of officials were impeached,
                         including a president and a cabinet official. This book may not answer the
                         question that Kyvig sets out for it, but it does provide a fine history of
                         modern impeachment threats.

                    KEITH E. WHITTINGTON is the William Nelson Cromwell Professor of Poli-
                         tics at Princeton University in Princeton
                         , New Jersey
                         . He is the author
                         of Political Foundations of Judicial Supremacy
                         (2007).
               
               
                    Roots Too White Ethnic Revival in Post-Civil Rights
                    America By Matthew Frye Jacobson (
                         Cambridge
                         , Mass.: Harvard
                         University Press, 2006. Pp. 483. Notes, index. Paperbound, $19.95.)


                    In 1970, a multi-ethnic legion of steelworkers and students, housewives and
                         welfare workers, priests and politicians gathered in 
                         Hammond, Indiana, to
                         organize the Calumet Community Congress (CCC). Endorsed by national
                         Democratic leaders, the CCC sought to marshal local ethnic pride and
                         cooperation behind an agenda of social, economic, and political reform. Two
                         years later, in the 1972 presidential election, Republican incumbent
                         Richard Nixon won northwest Indiana's vote by promulgating a
                         similar message of ethnic pride and cooperation, only for conservative,
                         not social democratic, causes.
                    What northwest Indiana wrestled with in this brief moment--the fluctuating
                         politics of ethnic identity--the nation grappled with for an entire era.
                         Matthew Jacobson explores this period of ferment in his masterful study,
                              Roots Too. With stunning breadth and scintillating
                         prose, he traces the "ethnic revival" that started in
                         the 1960s and continued unabated through the century's last
                         decades. The pivot--and much of the focus--of his story is the 1970s, when
                         momentous occasions like the nation's bicentennial and television
                         broadcast of Alex Haley's Roots "denoted
                         Americans' heightened self-consciousness about their own roots
                         and about the new, pluralized idioms of national membership" (p.
                         17). Prior to this point, ethnicity had been  something to hide and overcome for the sake
                         of belonging. But by 1976, Jacobson emphasizes, "after decades of
                         trying to conform ... descendants of earlier European immigrants quit the
                         melting pot" (p. 2).
                    What precipitated this change in thinking? Jacobson offers many reasons,
                         all stemming from exhaustive study of myriad intellectuals, politicians,
                         organizations, and "culture industries" (especially
                         television and Hollywood). Part of the shift, he acknowledges, had to do
                         with a third generation of immigrant Americans yearning for the stability
                         of heritage in a time of chaotic change. But Jacobson also moves past
                         this rendering of ethnic revival, fleshed out elsewhere by historians, to
                         dissect its racial and political composition. Here his insights sparkle
                         with fresh significance. Jacobson argues that the ethnic awakening
                         occurred "precisely when the American color line was sharpening in
                         new ways" (p. 35). As a deliberate response to the political
                         empowerment civil rights bestowed on racial minorities, white Americans
                         rallied behind a revised sense of superiority. A myth of "Ellis Island
                         whiteness" was forged in this context, and a different
                         notion of "America
                         " created, one that attributed
                         authentic citizenship to those whose forbearers had once been part of a
                         diaspora that suffered, sacrificed, and strove. Italian, Irish, Jewish,
                         Polish, and other once-marginalized "hyphened Amer-
                         icans" now joined White Anglo Saxon Protestants in collectively
                         evoking the fable of individual initiative and in redrawing the boundaries
                         of true Americanness by making "Caucasian" normative (p.
                         179). This act of exclusion, however, also allowed white ethnic
                         Americans to brush off responsibility for the systemic mistreatment of
                         racial minorities; they too, after all, had once felt the pain of prejudice
                         in an unjust social order, but through perseverance and hard work (not
                         special privilege and government assistance, this trope emphasized) had
                         risen above their circumstances.
                    Herein lies the crux of Roots Too. Although Jacobson spends
                         most of his time recounting with rich detail the cultural manifestations of
                         the new ethnicity, politics remains his bottom line. He rightly emphasizes
                         that the new ethnicity flourished because of progressive Democratic as well
                         as conservative Republican politics. Post-civil-rights-era liberalism came
                         to celebrate diversity, rather than assume consensus, and to make mul-
                         ticulturalism a central plank in its platform. Liberal feminists, he adds,
                         tapped romanticized notions of their grandmothers for inspiration in the
                         fight for equal rights. Jacobson also insists that the new ethnicity
                         allowed the Republican right to tilt the culture wars in its favor by
                         appealing to "traditional" values of individual ini-
                         tiative and community, and by tapping extant frustrations with the civil
                         rights movement. Indiana's flip-flop politics in the early 1970s
                         were, in this way, indicative of much larger,  violent swings across the nation, swings that
                         continue to the present day. Indeed, in his final chapter, Jacobson makes
                         it clear that the bipartisan quest to define diversity's prop-
                         er place in "an increasingly uneasy 'nation of
                         immigrants"' remains as hotly contested as ever, with the
                         stakes higher than ever before. Though willing to raise more doubts than
                         certainties about the nation's future course in this matter, he
                         predicts that any proposed solutions will legitimate "idioms of
                         white primacy" as readily as they open up avenues for inclusion
                         and assimilation (p. 388).

                    DARREN DOCHUK, Department of History, Purdue University, is the author
                         of Southern Errand: Plain Folk Religion and Grassroots
                              Politics In California
                              's Southland
                         (forthcoming).
               

               
                    Causes Won, Lost, and Forgotten How Hollywood and Popular
                              Art Shape What We Know about the Civil War By Gary W. Gallagher
                         (Chapel Hill
                         : University of North Carolina Press, 2008. Pp. 274.
                         Illustrations, notes, index. $28.00.)


                    Gary W. Gallagher is a noted author and editor of books about the Civil War.
                         In Causes Won, Lost, and Forgotten: How Hollywood and
                              Popular Art Shape What We Know about the Civil War, Gallagher
                         turns his attention to movies and illustrations about the war. More
                         specifically, he focuses on some fourteen films released in the past twenty
                         years: Glory, Dances with Wolves, Gettysburg
                              , Sommersby,
                              Little Women, Pharaoh's Army, Andersonville
                              , Ride with the
                              Devil, The Gangs of New York
                              , Gods and Generals, Cold Mountain, The
                              Last Samurai, C.S.A. The Confederate States of America
                         , and Seraphim Falls.
                    Gallagher looks at four basic concepts about the war: the Confederacy as
                         a glorious "Lost Cause" pitted against the industrial
                         might of the North, the "Union Cause" to maintain the
                         republic, the "Emancipation Cause" of a war to free the
                         slaves, and the "Reconciliation Cause," which Gallagher
                         calls "an attempt by white people North and South to extol the
                         American virtues both sides manifested during the war, to exalt the
                         restored nation that emerged from the conflict, and to mute the role of
                         African Americans" (p. 2). He is concerned with the influence of
                         these ideas on the motion picture industry, and with Hollywood's
                         transmission of these images to the general public. He also is interested
                         in the paintings, illustrations, and sculptures that he considers
                         "popular art" about the Civil War.
                    In the past twenty years, general interest in the war has increased, due
                         perhaps to the popular success of Ken Burns's 1990 eleven-hour
                         documen-  tary. As many as forty
                         million people watched all or part of the Public Broadcasting series, which
                         turned "talking head" Shelby Foote into a star and
                         greatly increased the sales of his three-volume narrative about the war
                         (pp. 5-6). Gallagher does not spend much time with television, despite the
                         fact that it is our most popular medium. Many more people have seen images
                         of the Civil War on the small screen than on the big screen. The
                         made-for-television version of Alex Haley's Roots was enormously popular and influential, and television
                         has brought Gone With the Wind to each new generation of
                         viewers. Gallagher also does not spend much time with the influence of
                         the thousands of novels written about the Civil War. Instead, he emphasizes
                         recent movies and illustrations.
                    The Civil War has been a topic for painters and other illustrators ever since
                         the war itself. Newspaper readers of the time saw the war through the
                         eyes of these illustrators, since photographs were not yet being pub-
                         lished. Gallagher's discussion of Civil War popular art in the
                         nineteenth century is particularly interesting. The battle images of that
                         time glorified either the Confederate Lost Cause or the Union Cause, and
                         many of these paintings and sculptures still grace our public spaces. But
                         Gallagher has chosen to emphasize the past twenty years, and some of these
                         more recent Civil War illustrations feature images of Robert E. Lee that
                         look more like a movie actor portraying Lee than like the general
                         himself.
                    There are many books about movies and the Civil War. Some try to cover
                         everything, and some discuss only a single film. Gallagher is a brilliant
                         historian who has written a very valuable book about the influence of
                         Hollywood and popular art on our images of the Civil War. Everything
                         Gallagher does he does with intelligence and style, but he has chosen not
                         to write a big book on everything he knows about the influence of movies,
                         novels, television, and popular art on our concepts of the Lost Cause,
                         the Union Cause, the Emancipation Cause, and the Reconciliation Cause.
                         The definitive work on this subject has not yet been written, and one can
                         only hope that someone like Gallagher will complete the task.

                    DAVID B. SACHSMAN serves as West Chair of Excellence and Director of the
                         Symposium on the 19th Century Press, the Civil War, and Free Expression
                         at the University of Tennessee at 
                         Chattanooga. He is an editor of Memory and Myth: The Civil War in Fiction and Film from
                         Uncle Tom's Cabin to Cold Mountain
                         (2007).
               

               
               
                    REVIEW NOTICES


                    Indiana Political Heroes By Geoff Paddock
                         (Indianapolis
                         : Indiana Historical Society Press, 2008. Pp. xv, 176.
                         Illustrations, index. $12.95.) The author offers brief profiles of
                         eight Hoosiers who played significant roles in both state and national
                         politics during the 1960s through the 1980s. The sketches will introduce
                         younger readers and non-Hoosiers to some of the state's important
                         political figures of the last decades, although the persons missing in
                         this list--including, but not limited to, Richard Lugar and Otis Bowen--may
                         lead readers to question why a longer volume could not have been offered. 

                    Leafy Rivers By Jessamyn West (
                         Bloomington:
                         Indiana University Press, 2009. Pp. 310. Paperbound, $14.95.)
                         Halfway through Jessamyn West's prolific career she wrote the
                         novel Leafy Rivers (1967). Like much of West's
                         fiction, the work is set in the Midwest during the early nineteenth century
                         and is centered on the life of a female protagonist of Quaker origins,
                         named Mary Pratt Converse Rivers (aka Leafy). As a young bride, Leafy
                         wonders whether she will ever live a life of genuine fulfillment. To aid
                         Leafy in this process, West writes a rich cast of characters including
                         Leafy's incompetent husband, Reno; Simon Yanders, a man whose
                         previous suffering causes him to recognize the power of goodwill; and the
                         eccentric Cashie Wade. With their help, Leafy faces the challenges of
                         raising a family in an uncultivated land.




                    Uncle My Journey with John Purdue By Irena
                         McCammon Scott (
                         West Lafayette
                         : Purdue University Press, 2008.
                         Pp. xi, 248. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Paperbound,
                         $19.95.) This biography looks to answer the question, "What
                         was John Purdue, founding benefactor of Purdue University, really
                         like?" Told from the perspective of Purdue's
                         great-great-grandniece, Irena Scott, the work pro-  vides a living history of "the
                         mysterious relative known in her family as
                         'Uncle'." Starting in the small 
                         Pennsylvania
                         log cabin where Purdue was born, Scott describes his family's move
                         to Ohio
                         , led by his strong-willed mother, Mary. The family's
                         journey became indicative of the perseverance Purdue would embody
                         throughout his life. Using personal correspondence, business ledgers, and
                         family oral history, Scott tells the story of a man, born into poverty, who
                         went on to found one of our nation's outstanding academic
                         institutions. 

                    19 Stars of Indiana Exceptional Hoosier Women By
                         Michael S. Maurer (Bloomington
                         : Indiana University Press, 2009.
                         Pp. xv, 219. Illustrations. $24.95.) Michael S. Maurer, the namesake
                         of Indiana University's Maurer School of Law, has written an
                         excellent tribute to nineteen of Indiana's most influential
                         women. Maurer singles out that number to symbolize the nineteen stars of
                         the Indiana flag, as each woman's life exemplifies dedication to
                         the state's academic, artistic, economic, and social growth. The
                         work features brief, affecting biographies of Sarah Evans Barker, Mary
                         Bolk, Angela M. Brown, Alecia A. DeCoudreaux, Christel DeHaan, Nancy
                         Shepherd Fitzgerald, Eva Mozes Kor, Jeanette Lee, Sylvia McNair, Patricia
                         R. Miller, Nancy Noel, Mercy Okanemeh Obeime, Jane Blaffer Owen, Ora Hirsch
                         Pescovitz, Ernestine Raclin, Sharon Rivenbark, Sandy Eisenberg Sasso, Becky
                         Skillman, and Carolyn Y. Woo. For anyone interested in learning about
                         the lives and impacts of Indiana's contemporary female leaders,
                         this book is a must read.

                    The Indiana Dunes Revealed The Art of Frank V
                    Dudley Edited by James R. Dabbert. (
                         Urbana
                         : University of
                         Illinois Press, 2006. Pp. xiv, 239. Illustrations, notes.
                         Paperbound, $29.95.) Few figures have made as significant and
                         unique an impact on the preservation of the Indiana Dunes National
                         Lakeshore as Frank V. Dudley. In conjunction with their 2006 exhibition
                         of the artist, Valparaiso University's Brauer Museum of Art
                         released this catalogue of Dudley's work. Spanning his entire
                         career, the collection includes over fifty different printings of his
                         beautiful "dunescape" oil and canvas paintings. They vary
                         from the busy excitement of Waverly Beech, perhaps his
                         most famous work, to the foreboding calm of Storm Clouds Hang
                              Low. The book also includes photographs from and a biography of
                         Dudley's life, as well as work by other artists, such as Winslow
                         Homer and Tunis Ponsen, who were similarly moved by the beauty of Northwest
                         Indiana's fragile dunes ecosystem.
                    
                    Amtrak in the Heartland By Craig Sanders
                         (Bloomington
                         : Indiana University Press, 2006. Pp. x, 324. Maps,
                         illustrations, notes, index. $49.95.) To celebrate
                         Amtrak's twenty-fifth year of operation, Craig Sanders has writ-
                         ten an extensive history of the company's years of operation in
                         America
                         's heartland. Beginning with the decline of the rail
                         transport passenger systems in the late sixties, Sanders chronicles
                         Amtrak's revitalization of an industry that was already
                         "ingrained in the public consciousness and celebrated in popular
                         culture" (p. 1). He maps Amtrak's continued development
                         of routes in the Midwest. By first taking advantage of the traditional
                         Chicago
                         to New York
                         market, Amtrak provided affordable access to both the
                         Midwest and East Coast, before expanding their operations to the West. In
                         addition to telling the history of their development, Sanders raises
                         important points, such as Amtrak's controversial relationship
                         with Indiana, which "sees more Amtrak trains than any Midwestern
                         state except Illinois
                         " (p. 211). 



                    The Natural Heritage of Indiana Edited by Marion T.
                         Jackson (Bloomington
                         : Indiana University Press, 2008. Pp. xxviii,
                         489. Illustrations, index. $49.95.) Editor Marion T. Jackson calls The Natural Heritage of Indiana "a cele-
                         bration of Indiana's natural heritage--its natural and human
                         history, its landscape and its life--what it once was, what it is now, and
                         what it promises to be" (p. xi). While developing a natural
                         history for the state may appear a massive undertaking, the impressive
                         collection of photographs, maps, and research from numerous ecological
                         scholars does just that. In part one, the book discusses the development
                         of Indiana's geology and topography, starting some 450 million
                         years ago. Part two goes on to describe the diverse ecological regions that
                         have developed across the state, before part three discusses the plant and
                         animal life these ecosystems now sustain. Part four "focuses on
                         the sweeping changes that have rolled across Indiana" and
                         discusses how "the value of our natural resources is determined by
                         our perceptions" of the environment (pp. 359, 383). In light of
                         this tension, parts five and six conclude by delving into the history and
                         present status of conservationist efforts across the state, so that
                         Hoosiers can "reconnect in a more meaningful way to what remains
                         natural in their landscape"; this, according to Jackson, is the
                         book's "primary objective" (p. 437).




                    Gender & the Sectional Conflict By Nina
                         Silber (Chapel Hill
                         : University of North Carolina Press, 2008.
                         Pp. xxi, 117. Illustrations, notes, index. $24.95.) This slim but
                         highly informative volume consists of a written-for-the-  book introduction and three essays which
                         derive from a Penn State lecture series on the Civil War era. Silber
                         draws on a wide range of scholarship, from studies of women during the
                         Revolutionary era to studies on why men fought during the Civil War, to
                         examine the roles Northern and Southern women played both during and
                         after the conflict. She posits that different ideas about women's
                         sphere and their public and private roles in society led to differing
                         ideas about how they should behave in a time of war. She also examines how
                         Northern women's more public and political activism during the war
                         was paralleled by Southern women's work after the war,
                         commemorating Confederate soldiers and promoting the ideology of the Lost
                         Cause. 


                    Faces of the Confederacy An Album of Southern Soldiers
                              and Their Stories By Ronald S. Coddington.
                         (Baltimore
                         : Johns Hopkins University Press, 2008. Pp. xxiii, 288.
                         Illustrations, notes, ref- erences, index. $29.95.) This small,
                         well-produced volume begins with two essays--one by Michael Fellman on the
                         importance of photography and particularly of the carte de visite in the
                         Civil War, and the second by the author, detailing his research into the
                         lives of a group of Confederate soldiers. The bulk of the text consists of
                         brief, informative biographical sketches of seventy-seven Southern
                         soldiers, each accompanied by an original photograph of the man.
                         Coddington's research in manuscript collections, newspapers,
                         regimental histories, and soldiers' memoirs has yielded a
                         fascinating volume which anyone interested in the Civil War will enjoy
                         browsing.
               



          
          
               
               
               
               
               

          
     
