
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 54, Issue 1, pages 1-92. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:54+issue:1+year:1958&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Indiana and the Call for Volunteers, April, 1861
            
                    Joseph A. Parsons, Jr.
                    *
                
            "
                        Charleston
                    , April 12. The ball has opened. War is inaugurated." Thus began the telegram
                    received and printed by the daily newspapers of Indiana on Saturday, April 13, 1861.1
            
            Indiana could hardly have been less prepared for war than she was. For ten years the reports of the
                    adjutant general had been filled with pleas for an effective militia law.2 After
                    the Mexican War the military appealed to so few that there were no more than a half dozen active and
                    organized militia units in the state in January, 1861. None of these had been organized before 1859
                    and their membership totaled less than five hundred men.3 The reports of the
                    adjutant general bemoaned the fact that no accurate inventory could be made as there was no means of
                    getting information from subordinate officers. No one seemed to know where the state arms, uniforms,
                    and military equipment were or what condition they were in, least of all the adjutant general. In
                    1850 there were supposed to be fifty-five militia companies of all arms, but none made the required
                        reports.4 Adjutant General S. D. Tomlinson asked time and time again for a
                    more effective system and in 1855 his pleas to the legislature were seconded by Governor Joseph A.
                        Wright.5 An act was passed in that year incorporating the militia units, but
                    this proved to be no 
                  
                     * Joseph A. Parsons, Jr., is a teaching associate and a
                            graduate student in the Indiana University Department of History. This is a revised seminar
                            paper which was originally written for a seminar under the direction of Professor Chase C.
                            Mooney.
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 13, 1861.
                  
                     2
                            Indiana Documentmy Journal, 1854-1860. See in particular the Reports of
                            the Adjutant General for 1854 and 1856-1857.
                  
                     3
                            Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1865-1869), I (1865), 2.
                  
                     4
                            Indiana Documentary Journal, 1856-1857, I, 393-396.
                  
                     5
                            Indiana Senate Journal, 1855, pp. 33-34.
               
                     more than an addition to the former piecemeal and inept laws.6
            
            On taking office in 1861, Governor Oliver P. Morton asked the legislature to pass a new militia law.
                    This body responded with a statute which required that all arms in the hands of the state militia be
                    turned in so the adjutant general would have some means of ascertaining the aggregate number of
                    weapons in Indiana.7 This resulted in the collection of "3,436 small
                    arms of sixteen different kinds, but of uniform inferiority" which state officials were
                    trying to exchange with the federal government for new rifles when the war commenced in April.
                    Governor Morton went to 
                        Washington
                     in March to request five thousand arms but 
                        United States
                     arsenals were unable to supply them.5 It might be noted that the
                    inability of the federal government to supply arms to the states was blamed by Indianians on the
                    perfidy of Secretary of War John B. Floyd.9
            
            The military status of the state is well illustrated by the condition of 
                        Elkhart County
                    , which reported that it had twenty old flintlock breech-loading muskets, twenty
                    ramrods, ten cartridge boxes, four umbrellas, and 296 pocket pistols. "The muskets are very
                    old, and entirely unfit for service; but the pocket pistols are perfect with the exception of
                        corks."10
            
            Officials at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     indicated that all arms there were of the flintlock musket style and that
                    "after pulling trigger the soldier can take a chew of tobacco before the piece goes
                        off."11 Altogether there were less than five hundred stands of
                    effective small arms and eight dismantled cannons owned by the state. The remainder of the
                    state's arms were of little or no military value.12
            
            This almost complete lack of military preparedness was characteristic of the western states. Whitelaw
                    Reid, journalist and later ardent expansionist, said: 
                        In every state west of the Alleghanies [sic] the militia had fallen into
                            undisguised contempt. The old-fashioned militia 
                        
                           6
                                    Laws of Indiana, 1855, p. 226.
                        
                           7
                                    Laws of Indiana, 1861, pp. 129-130.
                        
                           8
                                    Report of the Adjutant General, I, 3; William Dudley Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton (2 vols., 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1899), I, 125.
                        
                           9
                                    Report of the Adjutant General, I, 3.
                        
                           10
                                    
                                        Goshen
                                    
                                    Democrat, no date, quoted in 
                                        Madison
                                    
                                    Daily Courier, April 26, 1861.
                        
                           11
                                    
                                        Fort Wayne
                                    
                                    Daily Sentinel, April 16, 1861.
                        
                           12
                                    Report of the Adjutant General, I, 428-435.
                     
                             musters had been given up; the subject had been abandoned
                            as fit only to be the fertile theme for the ridicule of rising writers and witty stump
                            orators. The cannon issued by the government were left for the uses of political parties on
                            the occasion of mass meetings or victories at the polls. The small arms were scattered,
                            rusty, and become worthless. In 
                                Chicago
                             a novel drill had been an inducement for the organization of the Ellsworth
                            Zouaves; and here and there through the West the young men of the city kept up a military
                            company; but these were the exceptions. Popular prejudice against doing military duty was
                            insurmountable, and no name for these exceptional organizations so struck the popular fancy
                            as that of ‘the Cornstalk Militia.’13
                  
                    
            
            When Captain George B. McClellan and Senator Jacob D. Cox inspected the 
                        Ohio
                     arsenal in April, 1861, the latter reported: 
                        We found a few boxes of smooth-bore muskets which had once been issued to militia companies
                            and had been returned rusted and damaged. No belts, cartridge-boxes, or other accoutrements
                            were with them. There were two or three smoothbore brass fieldpieces, 6-pounders, which had
                            been honeycombed by firing salutes, and of which the vents had been worn out, bushed and
                            worn out again. In a heap in one corner lay a confused pile of mildewed harness which had
                            been once used for artillery horses, but was now not worth carrying away. There had for many
                            years been no money appropriated to buy military material or even to protect the little the
                            state had. The Federal government had occasionally distributed some arms which were in the
                            hands of the independent uniformed militia, and the arsenal was simply an empty storehouse.
                            It did not take long to complete our inspection. At the door, as we were leaving the
                            building, McClellan turned, and, looking back into its emptiness, remarked, half humorously
                            and half sadly, ‘A fine stock of munitions on which to begin a great
                                war.’14
                  
                    When it is understood that 
                        Ohio
                     was among the best prepared of the western states, the condition of Indiana can be
                    better appreciated.
            Nor was Indiana prepared politically to exert a concentrated effort for the war. Governor Oliver P.
                    Morton was a young and untried member of a young and untried party. Furthermore, he had obtained his
                    office by advancing from lieutenant governor when Governor Henry S. Lane resigned to take a seat in
                    the 
                        United States
                     Senate. For that reason and because he had bolted the Democratic party in 1854 he
                    lacked the unqualified support or confidence of either party.
            
               
                  13 Whitelaw Reid, 
                     
                                Ohio
                             in the War (Columbua, 1893), 1, 19.
               
                  14 Jacob D. Cox, Military Reminiscences of the Civil War (
                            New York
                        , 1905), I, 2.
            
            
            In addition to political instability and military ineptness, Indiana was in no economic condition to
                    finance a war. On February 11, 1861, there was on hand in the state treasury but $10,368,
                    most of which was being held in special funds which could not be touched for military or general
                    purposes. The only special fund from which money could be borrowed for these purposes had already
                    been tapped to pay current expenses, notably to pay the salaries of the state legislators after the
                    1861 session.15 It is true that the new state constitution ratified in 1851
                    authorized the borrowing of money in case of war but it was doubted that funds could be obtained
                    from private investors. The state's bonds had not proved to be good investments, and
                    further taxation would not be politically feasible unless the war proved very popular.
            Even before receipt of the news of the firing on Fort Sumter, Governor Morton began to act with the
                    surety and alacrity which was to characterize his administration. One of his first moves was to send
                    a telegram to Lewis Wallace, lawyer and legislator of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , saying, "Sumter has been fired on. Come immediately."16 Wallace was a veteran of the Mexican War who had organized and commanded the Montgomery
                    Guards, one of the few trained militia units in the state. Although he was a Democrat, his war
                    experience and his continued interest in things military made him one of the few men who were
                    capable of serving as adjutant general at that time. Wallace was addressing a jury on Saturday,
                    April 13, in the 
                        Clinton County
                     Circuit Court when the message arrived. He left the court room without finishing his
                    speech, rode ten miles to the nearest railroad station, and arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     Sunday morning. There he accepted the position of adjutant general on condition that he
                    later be appointed a colonel and given the command of his choice of regiments.17
            
            On the same day, Morton asked Colonel Thomas A. Morris to accept the post of quartermaster general
                    and Isaiah Mansur that of commissary general.18 These four, Morton, Wallace,
                    Morris, and Mansur, faced the enormous task of raising, training, feeding, and equipping thousands
                    of troops. On the morning 
                  
                     15
                            Report of the Adjutant General, I, 3.
                  
                     16 Lewis Wallace, Lew Wallace, An Autobiography (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            . 1906). I, 261.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., I, 261-264.
                  
                     18
                            Report of the Adjutant General, I, 6.
               
                     of their appointments, the last three had neither offices,
                    clerks, funds, nor the authority necessary for their tasks.
            On Monday morning, April 15, Governor Morton sent the following telegram: 
                        To Abraham Lincoln, President of the 
                                    United States
                                :
                  
                        On behalf of the State of Indiana, I tender to you, for the defense of the Nation, and to
                            uphold the authority of the Government, ten thousand men.
                  
                        (Signed,)
                        Oliver P. Morton,
                        Governor of Indiana.19
                  
                    
            
            On the same day President Lincoln issued his famous proclamation beginning: 
                        Whereas, the laws of the 
                                United States
                             have been for some time past, and now are, opposed, and the execution thereof
                            obstructed in the States of 
                        South Carolina,
                                    Georgia, Alabama, Florida, Mississippi, Louisiana
                      and 
                                Texas
                            , by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of
                            judicial proceedings, or by the powers vested in the marshals by law.
                        Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the 
                                United States
                            , in virtue of the power in me invested by the Constitution and the laws, have
                            thought fit to call forth the militia of the several States of the Union, to the aggregate
                            number of seventy-five thousand, in order to suppress said combinations, and to cause the
                            laws to be duly executed.
                        The details for this object will be immediately communicated to the State authorities,
                            through the War Department.20
                  
                    
            
            The details mentioned in the President's message were sent on the same day by Secretary of
                    War Simon Cameron: 
                        Sir:—Under the Act of Congress ‘for calling forth the militia to
                            execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, repel invasions,’
                            &c approved February 28, 1795, I have the honor to request your Excellency to cause
                            to be immediately detached from the militia of your State, the quota designated in the table
                            below, to serve as infantry, or riflemen, for the period of three months, unless sooner
                            discharged.
                        Your Excellency will please communicate to me the time at or about which your quota will be
                            expected at its rendezvous, as it will be met, as soon as practicable, by an officer or
                            officers to be mustered into the service and pay of the 
                                United States
                            . At the same time, the oath of fidelity to the 
                                United States
                             will be administered to every officer and man.
                        
                     
                        19
                                Ibid., 4.
                     
                        20
                                Indiana Documentary Journal, 1862-1863, II, 309.
                  
                        
                        The mustering officer will be instructed to receive no man under the rank of commissioned
                            officer, who is in years apparently over forty-five, or under eighteen, or who is not in
                            physical strength and vigor.
                    
            
            Indiana's quota included: 
                        One Brigadier General; one Aid (a Captain); one Brigade Inspector (a Major); six Regiments;
                            six Colonels; six Lieutenant-Colonels; six Majors; six Adjutants (Lieutenants); six
                            Regimental Quarter Masters (Lieutenants); six Surgeons; six Surgeon's Mates; six
                            Sergeant Majors; six Drum Majors; six Fife Majors; sixty Captains; sixty Lieutenants; sixty
                            Ensigns; sixty Sergeants; sixty Corporals; sixty Drummers; sixty Fifers; three thousand
                            eight hundred and forty privates. Total officers, two hundred and twenty-five. Total men,
                            four thousand four hundred and fifty-eight. Aggregate, four thousand six hundred and
                            eighty-three.
                        The rendezvous for your State will be at 
                                Indianapolis
                            .21
                  
                    
            
            As soon as the proclamation of the President and the orders of the Secretary of War were received,
                    Adjutant General Wallace published General Orders No. 1, dated April 15, 1861: 
                        Attention is called to the following regulations adopted for the organization of the militia
                            of Indiana: 
                        Companies must number eighty-four, rank and file.
                        Each company must elect the following officers for commissions: One Captain; one
                                    First Lieutenant; one Second Lieutenant and one Third Lieutenant.
                        When formed and organized by the election of officers, the captain must report
                                    immediately to this office, sending names of officers, company roll, the exact
                                    locality of their muster, and the particular arm of service they have chosen whether
                                    infantry, rifle, artillery or cavalry.
                        Notice of their acceptance will be immediately given by telegraph, or in the
                                    speediest possible manner; and when so notified, companies must hold themselves in
                                    readiness for instant march to the place of rendezvous.
                        Regiments will, if time permits it, be formed of companies from the same
                                    Congressional District. If time will not allow, companies will be assigned to
                                    regimente according to the date of their report, as above designated.
                        Respect for the five regiments sent from Indiana to the Mexican War, and the
                                    avoidance of historical confusion hereafter, require that regiments should be
                                    numbered in order, beginning with the sixth.
                        Companies not already uniformed will take no step about uniforming until they know
                                    the regiment they are attached to. 
                              
                                 21
                                            Ibid., 310.
                           
                        
                        
                        Arms will be distributed to accepted companies as soon as possible. If not
                                    distributed before marching to the place of rendezvous, patience must be exercised.
                        If practicable, an inspecting officer will be sent to such companies, notice being
                                    given of the time of his coming.
                        Accepted companies must not wait for arms, but begin their drilling immediately.
                        All communications touching arms, place of rendezvous, and organization, must be
                                    addressed to this office.
                        Notice of time and place of general rendezvous will be given in future orders.22
                        
                     
                  
                    
            
            These orders were issued on April 16 in conjunction with the governor's proclamation which
                    explained the emergency and called on the men of Indiana to form six regiments each with ten
                    companies to be mustered into the federal service.23
            
            In the meantime, excitement and patriotic fervor reigned throughout the state. The populace poured
                    into the county seats and principal towns. The rains had made the roads so muddy that the country
                    people had not chosen to come to the towns for several weeks, much to the disgust of the business
                    communities. Now they arrived in such great numbers as to make business impossible even if the
                    townsmen had left the telegraph and newspaper offices long enough to attend to their business.24 In
                    some towns there were "violent demonstrations" caused by differences of opinion
                    over "national questions,"25 but, on the whole, public
                    sentiment was in favor of the federal government's actions.
            Even the Democratic newspapers, such as the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, came to the support of the federal government. On April 13, the same day
                    it printed the news of the firing on Fort Sumter, it had printed an article explaining the raising
                    of a secession flag in 
                        Greensburg
                     as the work of a small boy.
            
                    Solitary and alone he hoisted a piece of spotted calico, with seven paper stars upon it, from one
                        of the towers of the courthouse, and as he expected, the irrepressibles went into spasms over
                        it. To increase the indignation, a stranger … was passed off as a recruiting officer
                        for the Southern army. That sell took, also. The Republicans talked about lynching 
                     
                        22
                                Ibid., 311-312.
                     
                        23
                                Ibid., 311.
                     
                        24
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Daily Journal, April 18, 1861.
                     
                        25
                                
                                    Fort Wayne
                                
                                Daily Telegraph, April 16, 1861.
                  
                         the ‘rebel’ officer, but his soldierly
                        appearance repressed all demonstrations of a hostile character. And such are the facts which
                        form the basis of the raw-head and bloody-bones article in the Journal of yesterday.26
               
                
            This and other previous "unpatriotic and partisan" statements on the part of the
                        Sentinel made it necessary for the police to make "exertions
                    … to prevent a mob."27 Thereafter, the editor toned down his
                    policies and sometimes sounded even more "rawheaded" and
                    "bloody-boned" than some of the Republican papers. Occasionally, however, he
                    slipped as on Tuesday, the sixteenth of April, when he called a man a "trampler of the
                    law" because he drew a pistol and called a horsebuyer, who had "mildly"
                    expressed his secessionist views, a "traitor."28 And on the
                    seventeenth, he editorialized that there should be a united effort to stop the war and to examine
                    the fruitlessness of the war, but he was to express any "unpatriotic and partisan"
                    views "mildly" for some months.
            Everywhere in the state mass meetings were held where resolutions were made to support the national
                    administration, to form military companies, to subscribe funds to supply and equip the volunteers
                    and to take care of their families. Most notable was the almost complete eradication of party lines
                    at these meetings. 
                        Cambridge
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     were reported to be in an uproar with business entirely suspended.29 In 
                        Richmond
                    , it was said that even the Quakers were turning out and a prominent Democrat promised
                    to "wade through seas of blood to support the administration and the stars and
                        stripes."30 At 
                        Tipton
                    , a former Ohioan raised a secession flag on the courthouse flagpole and was severely
                    manhandled before the mob accepted his explanation that the deed was done for
                    "sport" and allowed him to flee south on the first train.31
                    From 
                        Lafayette
                     came the news that "Firing of cannon, speeches, and music are the order of the
                        day."32 Bells and drums, noisy meetings, and parades intruded on
                    church services and a volunteer company was formed before breakfast Sunday morning in Renssalaer.33
            
            
               
                  26
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily State Sentinel, April 13, 1861.
               
                  27
                        
                            Madison
                        
                        Daily Courier, April 15, 1861.
               
                  28
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily State Sentinel, April 16, 1861.
               
                  29
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, April 18, 1861.
               
                  30
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily State Sentinel, April 16, 1861.
               
                        31
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                        32
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  33
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, April 16, 1861.
            
            
            The organization of volunteer companies was the most characteristic activity in the towns and cities
                    of Indiana. Military companies came into existence overnight captained by prominent local men.
                    Typical of these captains was Jerry Sullivan of 
                        Madison
                     who bade his Sunday school class goodbye on Sunday morning, hung the Stars and Stripes
                    from a window of Columbian Hall on Monday morning, and announced he was forming a company. By
                    Tuesday night it was more than full and on Wednesday morning he bought its members black caps in
                    lieu of uniforms, herded them onto a train, and with the flag the 
                        Madison
                     company had carried in 
                        Mexico
                    , started to 
                        Indianapolis
                    .34
            
            The militia companies of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the City Greys and the National Guards, were filled up by Monday morning and three
                    others paraded down 
                        Washington
                     Street. Somehow the rumor had spread on Sunday that the Greys had disbanded for fear of
                    being called into active service. Lieutenant R. S. Foster had a letter published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers denying this "base slander and libel."35
            
            Four recruiting offices were opened in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .36 Three companies plus a Home Guard unit were formed in addition
                    to Captain Sullivan's in 
                        Madison
                     and all were filled by Monday night.37 A Kentuckian walked 120
                    miles to join one of them.38
            
            There were many stories of such extreme patriotism in the papers and some were doubtless exaggerated.
                    Sixty-eight year old John McCurtin, who had two sons in the Iroquois Guards of 
                        Jasper County
                    , tried to volunteer. When rejected, he shaved his whiskers, trimmed his hair and dyed
                    it jet black. His appearance was so transformed that he passed the recruiting officers and was sworn
                        in.39 A ninety-two year old man from Pendleton managed to volunteer in a
                    company from 
                        Madison
                     and went with it to 
                        Indianapolis
                     where he was rejected by medical officers. He was the father of twenty-four children
                    and was termed "unusual in more 
                  
                     34 A. J. Grayson, History of the Sixth Indiana Regiment
                                in the Three Months' Campaign in Western 
                                    Virginia
                                
                      (
                                Madison
                            , Indiana, 1875), 4.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 15, 1861.
                  
                     36
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Daily Telegraph, April 18, 1861.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Daily Courier, April 16, 1861.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., April 17, 1861.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 22, 1861.
               
                     ways than one" by the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal.
               40 A seventy-eight year old veteran of the Thames
                    broke down and cried when the company being formed in 
                        Spencer
                     refused to take him.41
            
            In many towns prominent clergymen, officials, and state representatives were among the first to sign
                    the military rosters. A notable example was Mayor Will Cumbach of 
                        Greensburg
                     who enlisted as a private in the first company formed in his town.42 At the same time, many men were allegedly forced to do their patriotic duty by their wives
                    or sweethearts. The ladies of Cartersburg were reported to be saying to their men, "Go, or
                    let me go."43
            
            All the printers in 
                        Cambridge City
                     volunteered and the papers there had to close down their presses.44
                    Newspapers throughout the state were in a difficult position. At a time when they were trying to
                    publish extras, were overwhelmed with telegrams concerning the war, and were faced with an
                    unprecedented amount of news, their "printer boys" were volunteering. Almost every
                    company had at least one newspaper employee in its ranks.45 The Sentinel boasted that it had supplied eight printers while the Republican and supposedly
                    more militaristic and patriotic Journal had sent only six.46
            
            By Monday following the attack on Fort Sumter, the adjutant general's office, located
                    temporarily in an anteroom off the governor's office, was besieged with telegrams and
                    entreaties. By 3:30 P.M. of that day, the following companies had tendered their services: four from 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; two each from 
                  Madison, Terre Haute
               , and 
                        Lafayette
                    ; one each from 
                  Crawfordsville,
                            Noblesville, Wabash,
                            New Albany, Logansport
               , and Rising Sun. That evening three companies from 
                        Greencastle
                     and one each from 
                        North Vernon
                     and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     telegraphed their readiness to march. Knights-town supposedly "dropped its
                    Quakerism," had a mass meeting on Sunday, organized a company, and asked for arms on
                        Monday.47
            
            
               
                  40
                        Ibid., April 23, 1861.
               
                  41
                        Ibid., April 26, 1861.
               
                  42
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily State Sentinel, April 20, 1861.
               
                  43
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, April 29, 1861.
               
                  44
                        
                            Madison
                        
                        Daily Courier, April 20, 1861.
               
                  45
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily State Sentinel, April 26, 1861.
               
                  46
                        Ibid., April 19, 1861.
               
                  47
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, April 16, 1861.
            
            
            The next week was sheer bedlam. Between the fifteenth and the twentieth, 
                        Terre Haute
                     sent two companies of one hundred men each to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , raised a cavalry unit of one hundred men and a German company of eighty. Four more
                    companies were raised in 
                        Terre Haute
                     on the eighteenth and nineteenth totaling three hundred men, and the city expected six
                    hundred more volunteers during the next four days. Three citizens on business in the South were
                    reported to have been drafted into the secessionist army, one boatload of merchandise was said to
                    have been confiscated by southerners. There had been a public meeting every night. On the nineteenth
                    the county commissioners had appropriated five thousand dollars and the citizens had subscribed four
                    thousand dollars to aid the families of volunteers. The ladies made two hundred red flannel shirts
                    for the 
                        Terre Haute
                     volunteers.48
            
            Such activity was common. A mass meeting in 
                        Hamilton County
                     raised twenty-five thousand dollars for volunteers' families on the sixteenth
                    in a few minutes.49 In 
                        Muncie
                     twelve hundred dollars was raised that same day in twenty minutes. One farmer, lacking
                    money, gave two hundred bushels of wheat.50 A man in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     gave five hundred dollars, another gave two thousand, while in 
                        Indianapolis
                     another gave one thousand.51
            
            The boys at the Deaf and Dumb Institute in 
                        Indianapolis
                     bought material and the girls then spent two days making a flag measuring twenty by
                    eleven feet. A thirty-foot pole was placed on the cupola of the main building and the flag was run
                    up on the nineteenth after the superintendent recited "The Star Spangled Banner"
                    and one of the students gave an address. The whole ceremony was conducted in sign language.52
            
            From all indications the most riotous town was 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . The Telegraph of that city reported on the twenty-second that there
                    had been no disturbances due to the vigilance of the mayor who had stayed on the crowded streets
                    almost day and night calming the people.53 That afternoon he 
                  
                     48
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Weekly Gazette, April 27, 1861.
                  
                     49
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Daily Courier, April 22, 1861.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 19, 1861.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., April 20, 1861.
                  
                     52
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, April 20, 1861.
                  
                     53
                            
                                Ford Wayne
                            
                            Daily Telegraph, April 22, 1861.
               
                     must have relaxed his vigilance in an attempt to get some rest
                    before seeing the 
                        Wayne
                     Rifles off on the train at 2:00 A.M. the next morning. A group of men with tin horns
                    and flags were parading the streets when two "Frenchmen" in an oxcart were
                    unfortunate enough to appear in their line of march. The revellers tried to frighten the oxen,
                    whereupon the Frenchmen climbed off the wagon to protect the animals and were promptly assaulted.
                    When the brawl was broken up, one of the Frenchmen picked up the presumably lifeless body of his
                    companion and drove off. The arrest of Nicholas Hicks was followed by a proclamation by the mayor to
                    the effect that ten men in each ward were to form a police patrol each night to aid the police and
                    that no liquor was to be sold after 9:00 P.M.54 The next day, the
                    "dead" Frenchman was seen rolling logs, but the mayor's proclamation
                    remained in effect.55
            
            The editor of the 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Ledger, commenting on the troubles in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and other towns, promised that: 
                        our own community, situated as they are on what will, there is too much reason to fear, be
                            soon the border, preserve their equanimity, and manifest little disposition to be carried
                            away by the storm of passion which is now rocking the country to and fro.56
                  
                    He was wrong. A crowd made a dummy representing him and threatened to hang him in effigy for
                    his sentiments.57
            
            In 
                        Shelbyville
                     a volunteer named John Vanpelt went into a grocery owned by John Frakes, a Southern
                    sympathizer. Frakes ordered Vanpelt out saying he would serve no volunteers. When Vanpelt refused to
                    leave, Frakes drew a pistol and shot the volunteer in the thigh. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel's words are interesting in view of its recent lack of ardor for
                    the war: "The demon who shot him … has managed to make his escape [or the mob
                    would have] hung him higher than Haman ever hung."58
            
            Exciting and fast-moving as events were over the state, the center of activities was 
                        Indianapolis
                     which was rapidly 
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., April 23, 1861.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., April 24, 1861.
                  
                     56 Quoted in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, April 18, 1861.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., April 20, 1861.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., April 23, 1861.
               
                     changing from a city of peace to an armed camp. On April 17 the
                        Sentinel said: 
                        In the military department, which is quite an extensive one now, matters took a business turn
                            … and order is rapidly being created out of excitement and confusion. The
                            different armories were open and recruiting went on. The two Zouave companies drilled nearly
                            all day on the street, and the sound of martial music was heard from the severel [sic] rendezvous of the troops. Our city was like a garrison town.59
                  
                    
            
            The day before, Governor Morton and Adjutant General Wallace secured the State Fair grounds on the
                    north side of the city and the two 
                        Indianapolis
                     companies, the Greys and the Guards, moved into the new camp which became Camp Morton.
                    The order which had been promised was soon shattered. The adjutant general and his assistant, Fred
                    Knefler, former 
                        Marion County
                     clerk, were flooded all day Monday and Tuesday by telegrams. The following are a small
                    part of them: 
                        
                     
                        
                                    Muncie
                                , April 17. We leave here immediately.
                     Lebanon, April 17. We will be fully organized tomorrow.
                     
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                , April 17. My company will be ready to march in a few hours.
                     
                        
                                    Crawfordsville
                                , April 17. Forty men will leave here at six o'clock this evening
                                via 
                                    Lafayette
                                .
                     
                        
                                    Cambridge City
                                , April 17. The company will be out tomorrow noon.
                     
                        
                                    Madison
                                , April 16. Company will be on hand Thursday morning. Got full number and
                                good size.
                     
                        
                                    Wabash
                                , April 17. Muster roll of 86 men to be sent tomorrow.
                     
                        
                                    Lafayette
                                , April 17. Capt. Miller's complete; ready at a moment's
                                warning; one and probably two more companies will be ready tomorrow.
                     
                        
                                    Lafayette
                                , April 17. Capt. Miller's company just started for 
                                    Indianapolis
                                .
                     
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                , April 16. We are ready at a call; are we accepted?
                     
                        
                                    Muncie
                                , April 16. The 
                                    Delaware
                                 Guards tender their services. I will be down this afternoon with the
                                papers.
                     
                        
                                    North Vernon
                                , April 15. Company complete by 8:00 p.m. Can we be received in the first
                                requisition?
                     
                        
                                    Lawrenceburg
                                , April 16. Company full and ready for orders tomorrow noon.
                     
                        
                                    South Bend
                                , April 17. Continental Cadets are full. Will you accept them? 
                           
                              59
                                        Ibid., April 17, 1861.
                        
                     
                     
                     
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                , April 17. My company will leave here tomorrow.60
                     
                     
                        
                                    Cambridge City
                                , April 17. 
                                    Cambridge City
                                 in an uproar. Business entirely suspended. Our company will be in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 an the noon train.61
                     
                  
                    Such telegrams continued to pour in from all over the state Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday
                    offering companies, asking for a place in the proposed Zouave Regiment (which Wallace planned to
                    make his own after completing his duties as adjutant general), asking for transportation, announcing
                    times of arrival, and so on.62
            
            Morton, Wallace, Mansur, and Morris, and their aides, faced the almost impossible task of receiving,
                    quartering, feeding, arming, and equipping the horde of men who were on the move toward 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The most important job was to make the State Fair grounds serve as a military camp.
                    Using the troops on hand and civilians, Morris converted the horse and cattle stalls into barracks,
                    raised hundreds of tents, and made Camp Morton ready in the short space of two days. On April 16
                    Wallace received a letter signed by Lucinda K. Morton, Kate Bullard, Mrs. E. H. Bates, Caroline
                    Coburn, and Cordelia Wallace offering the services of the women of 
                        Indianapolis
                     to aid in the procurement of blankets and clothing. Wallace answered by telling them
                    they could help in supplying blankets, bed clothing, surgical appliances, lint, and bandages. In
                    addition, Wallace wrote in a manner foreshadowing his later literary accomplishments that
                    mother's care and sister's nursing were in even greater demand. At 9:00 A.M.,
                    Wednesday, April 17, the ladies met and on the next morning load after load of quilts, blankets, and
                    comforts flowed into the quartermaster stores at the camp.63
            
            Fortunately balmy spring weather prevailed, for the companies began arriving before these
                    preparations could be completed. A company from 
                        Lafayette
                     came in on the train Tuesday evening, and one from 
                        Madison
                     arrived during the early morning hours Wednesday. On their heels came companies from
                            
                  Delaware County, Lafayette, Terre Haute, Richmond
               , 
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., April 18, 1861.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 18, 1861.
                  
                     62 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 261.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, April 18-19, 1861.
               
                    
                    
                  Cambridge City, Lawrenceburg
               , and 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . From then on, the confusion was too great for the newspapers of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and they lost count. All they could be sure of was that eighteen hundred men were in
                    the camp by nightfall Wednesday.64 The press of incoming troops by that evening
                    was such that some stayed overnight in the hotels65 and many of the volunteers
                    who stayed at the Bates House and the Palmer House thought soldiering was to be an easy life.66
            
            The trip to 
                        Indianapolis
                     had not been without its excitements and accidents. The volunteers had left their homes
                    after parades, feasts, and fond farewells. They were greeted by crowds, bands, and the firing of
                    cannon and blacksmith's anvils at towns through which they passed. The gaiety of the
                    occasion was marred by tragedy at 
                        Greenwood
                     when a cannon fired to salute the 
                        Madison
                     company burst in the midst of the crowd. A small boy was killed when he was thrown one
                    hundred yards, the top of his head shot away, and ten people were wounded.67
            
            A system of receiving the troops which was continued throughout the war was put into operation in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Two independent home guard units and a fife and drum corps had been organized there;
                    Lew Wallace pressed them into service. He kept one of them on duty at the railroad station at all
                    times. An independent artillery company offered its services and each train was met with an
                    artillery salute and martial music. Each newly arrived company was escorted through the packed and
                    cheering throngs by one of the elegantly uniformed independent companies to the southeast corner of
                    the State House. There Governor Morton or some other personage made a speech.68
                    Adjutant General Wallace administered the oath of allegiance and made a short speech which usually
                    ended with the words, "You are no longer citizens, but soldiers." Many of the
                    volunteers needed this admonition as some believed they had volunteered for a free trip to 
                        Washington
                     and a three-month vacation.69 They were then marched to Camp
                    Morton, fed, and assigned to their tents or cattle 
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., April 19, 1861.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 19, 1861.
                  
                     66 Grayson, History of the Sixth Indiana Regiment,
                            6.
                  
                     67
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, April 19, 1861.
                  
                     68 Wallace, Autobiography, 266-267.
                  
                     69 Grayson, History of the Sixth Indiana Regiment,
                            6.
               
                     stalls. With troops coming in so rapidly, it was not always
                    possible to receive them at Camp Morton with the promptness and efficiency shown in the city. Some
                    had to wait many long and hungry hours before being fed70 and many received
                    blankets which were too thin for comfort.71 However, the three-month volunteers
                    were not to suffer long. As soon as their friends in their home towns heard their first complaints,
                    huge quantities of bedding, clothing, and food were sent to them. If anything, they soon became too
                    well supplied.
            Paramount to all else was the problem of financing the new army. City and county commissioners
                    appropriated and individuals subscribed vast sums to pay for equipping and feeding the volunteers
                    and to care for their families. The banking firm of Winslow and Lanier placed twenty-five thousand
                    dollars at the disposal of Governor Morton.72 But the cost of equipping and
                    maintaining a force for any length of time would require more than could be raised without
                    legislative action. On April 18 Governor Morton called the Indiana General Assembly to meet on April
                        24.73 Without a doubt, this was one of the most unusual meetings of the
                    Indiana legislature. In the House of Representatives, a Republican was nominated for speaker by a
                    Democrat; a Democrat was nominated for clerk by a Republican; and both were elected unanimously as
                    were all officers of both House and Senate.74 The governor's message
                    asked for one million dollars for arms, munitions, and the militia, for an effective militia law,
                    for a law defining treason, and for a law suspending the debts of volunteers.75
                    Only on the last two was there any dissension; on none was there any party division.76
            
            Under the act of May 1, money was made available to provide for the procurement of
                    "first-class arms, artillery, cavalry and infantry equipments and munitions of war, making
                        
                  
                     70
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Daily Telegraph, April 24, 1861.
                  
                     71 Grayson, History of the Sixth Indiana Regiment,
                            7.
                  
                     72 Catherine Merrill, The Soldier of Indiana in the War
                                for the Union (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1869), I, 12; Report of the Adjutant General, I, 6. Lanier,
                            a native of 
                                Madison
                            , made this loan and others later as a patriotic gesture which, in the end, it
                            proved to be. The loan was not completely repaid until the twentieth century.
                  
                     73
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 24, 1861.
                  
                     74
                            Indiana Senate Journal, Special Session, 1861, pp. 7-9; Indiana House Journal, Special Session, 1861, pp. 7-10.
                  
                     75
                            Indiana Senate Journal, Special Session, 1861, pp. 21-25.
                  
                     76
                            Ibid., 48, 86, 112, 243.
               
                     the necessary appropriations therefor, and authorizing the
                    Governor to borrow money … for twenty thousand men."77
                    Calvin Fletcher, Sr., was sent east to arrange for the purchase of arms and equipment. He was
                    unsuccessful so his son, Miles J. Fletcher, the state superintendent of public instruction, was sent
                    on a similar mission with similar results. Applications were made to the federal government and to
                    General McClellan, commander of the Western Division, for arms and cannon to protect the
                        Ohio River towns of 
                  New
                        Albany, Jeffersonville, Madison
               , and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . The only result was the receipt of two pieces of artillery for 
                        New Albany
                    . Governor Morton then commissioned Robert Dale Owen as agent of the state "to
                    visit the Eastern States and Europe in order to purchase arms … not to extend beyond six
                    thousand rifles and rifled muskets, and one thousand carbines." Owen was so successful in
                    his mission that by February, 1862, he had purchased thirty thousand English En-field rifles, 2,731
                    carbines, 751 revolvers, and 797 cavalry sabres.78 Owen's success came
                    too late for the three-month volunteers but Morton was somehow able to procure the most recent
                    rifles from the federal government for their use. When Indiana troops passed through 
                        Ohio
                     in June, the 
                        Ohio
                     newspapers raised a storm of protest against their state government. "No 
                        Ohio
                     regiments have such arms. Whose fault is it?"79
            
            With the arms problem disposed of, it remained necessary to find the ammunition which the federal
                    government was unable to supply. It could scarcely supply the troops in the East. As a temporary
                    expedient, Governor Morton asked Captain Herman Sturm to undertake the manufacture of ammunition for
                    the three-month troops.80 On April 27 land was acquired on Market Street facing
                    the north entrance of the State House.81 Volunteers from the Eleventh Regiment
                    served as laborers in the arsenal the first few days82 but were soon relieved.
                    By Monday, June 17, eighty men and sixteen women were working full time manufacturing grape,
                    cannister, 
                  
                     77
                            Laws of Indiana, 1861, p. 13.
                  
                     78
                            Report of the Adjutant General, I, 427-434.
                  
                     79
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, June 21, 1861.
                  
                     80
                            Report of the Adjutant General, I, 413.
                  
                     81
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, June 15, 1861
                  
                     82
                            Report of the Adjutant General, I, 414.
               
                     shells, six-pound balls, and Minie bullets "ready for
                        ramming."83
            
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                    , with companies arriving every day, was rapidly becoming an army town. Not less than
                    twenty made their appearance on April 22.84 As Camp Morton began to be packed
                    with volunteer companies, there was also a steady stream of visitors. The hack fare from downtown
                    was ten cents and the journey must have been worth every cent of it to the thousands of curious
                    townsfolk who were enraptured by the sight of the marching and camp life. The masses of visitors so
                    reduced the efficiency of the training and so imposed on the privacy of the volunteers that Colonel
                    Joseph J. Reynolds closed the camp to visitors on Sundays and allowed no passes for the troops. From
                    all reports, the soldiers seemed relieved to have a day to themselves when they could bathe, shave,
                    and drill without an audience.85
            
            Camp Morton was a park-like area of about thirty-five acres. Exhibition halls and long rows of
                    livestock stalls had been enclosed and fitted with bunks for about three thousand men. Visitors were
                    allowed to come and go through the southwest gateway. To the right was the Fair Secretary's
                    office which was being used as Colonel Reynolds' headquarters. The Committee House in the
                    center had been appropriated by Quartermaster General Morris and the medical inspectors of the
                    federal army. The Manufacturers' Exhibition Hall farther to the east was filled with
                    troops, and the dining hall was the commissary store under Colonel Mansur. On the west side of the
                    grounds there was a double row of cattle stalls with each stall fitted out to house six men. Major
                    attractions of these quarters were the signs hung out by the volunteers: "Washing and
                    Ironing," "Bates House," "Cupping and Bleeding,"
                    "Dress Making," "Artesian Well—Great Bore,"
                    "Hair Dressing," etc. The horse stables along the north side of the camp were
                    occupied in the same manner as the cattle barns but it was reported that there were fewer signs. The
                    guardhouse was in the newest of the Fair buildings, the Treasurer's Office.86
            
            
               
                  83
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily State Sentinel, June 15, 1861.
               
                  84
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, April 23, 1861.
               
                  85
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily State Sentinel, April 27, 1861.
               
                  86
                        Ibid., April 22, 1861.
            
            
            The greatest disadvantage of the camp was the lack of an open field adequate for drilling a unit
                    larger than a company. An additional deterrent to drill was that rains did not drain off the grounds
                    and days passed when the volunteers were forced to be inactive due to mud and pools of standing
                    water. The problem of space was especially important for the Zouave Regiment for its drill was
                    closely related to what in modern terminology is known as extended order drill. Emphasis was placed
                    on company-sized combat formations with troops well spread out, attacks and movements on the run,
                    and commands and orders with whistles, bugles, and hand signals. For that reason, and because it was
                    the regiment he had chosen to command, Colonel Wallace moved it to the Bellefontaine Car Shops on
                    April 24.87
            
            Cooking was done in groups of four or five men who picked up their rations each day. This system of
                    feeding was customary in all armies at that time and was probably not as unsatisfactory as it sounds
                    to those accustomed to modern army messes. However, one soldier at Camp Morton wrote, "We
                    like everything here but the cooking and absence of dishwashing; such cooking and
                    smearing—ragless and soapless. I always believed that, without the ladies, men were
                    accomplished hogs, now I know it."88 However, complaints about food are
                    ever present in military organizations and such reports are only to be expected. At any rate, there
                    were no cases of starvation or epidemics. If anything, food was too plentiful. The vast amounts
                    bought from sutlers and received from parents and friends eventually had to be regulated in the
                    interests of discipline and physical training. The chief problem seems to have been that the people
                    of Indiana expected nothing but the best for their volunteers in the early days of the war. On May 1
                    the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier stirred up a hornet's nest when it published the following item:
                    "It has been discovered that the coffee supplied to the soldiers at Camp Morton is
                    adulterated with chicory. Punish the Commissary General."89 Immediately
                    charges of "stinking sour meat" and "chicory and burnt beans"
                    were raised.90 The 
                  
                     87 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 269; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 25, 1861.
                  
                     88
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Daily Courier, May 1, 1861.
                  
                            89
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     90
                            Ibid., June 26, 1861.
               
                     coffee did prove to be adulterated but the commissary general
                    pointed out that coffee which the suppliers themselves ground at that time was always adulterated
                    and that green coffee would have been supplied had the troops been able to roast and grind their
                        own.91 The eventual outcome was the forced resignation of Isaiah Mansur on
                    May 29 after a legislative investigating committee voted 70 to 0 to remove him.92 (The worst of the charges were later proved false and the fault probably lay rather with
                    the troops and suppliers than with the commissary general.) Six months later, when the realities of
                    camp life were better known, it is probable that no complaint would have been raised.93
            
            One of the chief forms of recreation at the camp was to provide what was known as the Sons of Malta
                    Initiation for unwary visitors. The object was to spread a canvas on the ground and when an
                    unsuspecting stranger stepped on it, to rush forward, grab the edges, and toss the victim into the
                        air.94 The favorite subjects were the "ladies of easy
                    virtue" who, according to some, were tossed again and again until they promised to leave
                    the camp and not return.95
            
            Power Hall at the Fair grounds was turned into a hospital. Here Drs. John S. Bobbs and A. D. Gall
                    inspected the incoming volunteers. Rejection must have sounded like words of doom to judge by the
                    reaction of those who were turned down; the passing of the examination brought forth shouts of joy
                    from the lucky volunteer.96 A rumor of poisoned wells and oranges was
                    dramatically proven false when the doctors ate and drank samples of the questioned items in order to
                    prevent a near-panic. As it was, the mob had already destroyed twenty to thirty dollars'
                    worth of oranges when it rushed the stand of the peddler who sold them.97
            
            By April 24 there were 111 companies, fifty-one more than the sixty required. This total varies, for
                    after the sixty were chosen, members of the other companies were given the choice of volunteering
                    for three years or going home. This 
                  
                     91
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 2, 1861.
                  
                     92
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, May 30, 1861.
                  
                     93
                            Report of the Adjutant General, I, 453-464.
                  
                     94
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Weekly Gazette, May 4, 1861.
                  
                     95
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, April 26, 1861.
                  
                     96
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 23, 1861.
                  
                     97
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, April 25, 1861.
               
                     resulted in a continuous inflow of volunteers for the three-year
                    service and an outflow of those who were unwilling or unable to serve for so long a period. In
                    addition, great confusion had resulted over the number of men in each company. Most had arrived with
                    one hundred or more enlisted men and all had to be reduced to seventy-four before acceptance into
                    the federal service. The excess number in the companies was absorbed by physical rejections, the
                    organization of new companies, and in a few cases, the return of the volunteers to their homes after
                    the original excitement had worn off and before the company had been brought into the service.
                    Governor Morton, realizing that the extra companies would eventually be needed, held them in camp on
                    his own authority and asked the federal government to authorize four regiments in addition to the
                    six already requested.98 This farsighted action prevented a great deal of
                    trouble, expense, and delay a short time later.
            By April 27 all six of the three-month regiments were fully organized and had been mustered by Major
                    Thomas J. Wood as the First Brigade, Indiana Volunteers, Brigadier General Thomas A. Morris
                    commanding. The regimental commanders were: 
                  Sixth, Colonel Thomas T. Crittenden
                  Seventh, Colonel Ebenezer Dumont
                  Eighth, Colonel William P. Benton
                  Ninth, Colonel Robert H. Milroy
                  Tenth, Colonel Joseph J. Reynolds
                  Eleventh, Colonel Lewis Wallace.99
                  
               Each regiment was composed of ten companies of seventy-four enlisted men and three officers.
                    Generally speaking, these regiments, due to an estimated five hundred men with former military
                    training in their ranks, were more easily and rapidly trained than most of the later regiments
                    raised in the state.
            Colonel Wallace, in accordance with the earlier arrangement made with the governor, resigned as
                    adjutant general and was given his choice of regiments. Not only did he choose his regiment but he
                    chose the companies which were to be in it, being careful to pick those which were previously 
                  
                     98 Foulke, Oliver P. Morton, I, 118; Report of the Adjutant General, I, 7, 11.
                  
                     99
                            Report of the Adjutant General, I, 9.
               
                     organized militia units with previous training. The Eleventh
                    began to train immediately in the strange and colorful Zouave drill. Wallace dressed his men in
                    uniforms of the exotic style peculiar to Zouaves but of a grey color rather than the splendid reds
                    and blues more common to that type of unit.100
            
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     had its troubles during this time of intense war fever, excitement, and military
                    efforts. On April 24 there were 4,500 soldiers in addition to the legislature and the masses of
                    followers of the two groups. The city was soon beset by pickpockets, rowdies, prostitutes, and
                    over-zealous celebrants unaccustomed to freedom, the war spirit, and alcohol. Pickpockets practiced
                    their profession even on the incoming volunteers who were standing in ranks taking the oath of
                        allegiance.101 There was at least one fight on the streets each day and the
                    number of runaway horses frightened by the bands and cannons increased.102 The
                    most persistent problem was that of a few disorderly houses of ill-fame. Each ward in the city held
                    public meetings to discuss ways and means of removing undesirable citizens and, in some instances,
                        succeeded.103
            
            In the camp, the six regiments were beginning to cry for action. On May 9 the Eleventh marched to the 
                        Terre Haute
                     depot and embarked for 
                        Evansville
                    
               104 where, to their disgust, they were given the unZouavelike duty
                    of searching boats on the river. On May 29 the Seventh and Ninth regiments departed for Western 
                        Virginia
                    
               105 and the Sixth followed the next day.106 The
                    Eighth and Tenth moved to a new camp east of 
                        Indianapolis
                     to get away from the lures of the city while waiting for orders.107
                    The Eleventh passed through 
                        Indianapolis
                     on their way to Western 
                        Virginia
                     on June 6.108 On June 19 the Eighth and Tenth followed.109
            
            To follow the military exploits of the six Indiana regiments in Western 
                        Virginia
                     is beyond the scope of this article. 
                  
                     100
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 30, 1861.
                  
                     101 Wallace, Autobiography, I, 267-274.
                  
                     102
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, April 20, 1861.
                  
                     103
                            Ibid., April 24 and 25, 1861.
                  
                     104
                            Ibid., May 10, 1861.
                  
                     105
                            Ibid., May 29, 1861.
                  
                     106
                            Ibid., May 30, 1861.
                  
                     107
                            Ibid., June 1, 1861.
                  
                     108
                            Ibid., June 8, 1861.
                  
                     109
                            Ibid., June 20, 1861.
               
                     Their actions at Philippi (the first battle of the war), Laurel
                    Hill, Carrick's Ford, Rich Mountain, Romney, and Kelley's Island were minor
                    engagements, soon overshadowed by the greater battles of the war. However, these opening actions
                    were almost the only battles the Northern armies were to win for some time to come. The numbers of
                    killed and wounded in the three-month volunteer regiments were small (less than thirty killed) but
                    these men had learned war was not the picnic many had expected. When they came home late in July
                    they 
                        straggled along up the street as fast as they could. Greetings resounded along the line,
                            while anxious women, in carriages and on foot, seized their sons and hurried them off. The
                            returned volunteers looked like veterans … able to stand the hardships of another
                            campaign; their hair shaggy, their beards ragged and dusty, their uniforms completely worn
                                out.110
                  
                    
            
            They were ready to fight a war-and so was Indiana.
            
               
                  110
                        
                            Madison
                        
                        Daily Courier, July 27, 1861.
            
         
         
         
         
            Jefferson and the Separation of Powers in the States, 1776-1787
            
                    Darwin Kelley
                    *
                
            During and after the American Revolution the theory of separation of powers was established as one of
                    the three main principles to preserve liberty.1 No infallible answer can be
                    given to the question why this theory appealed to the Americans, but perhaps more light can be shed
                    upon this pertinent subject.
            That concentration of powers results in despotism and that separation of powers is necessary for
                    liberty were popular theories derived from the Europeans, especially Locke and Montesquieu. Their
                    authority was used because the idealized picture of colonial America with Rights of Englishmen had a
                    certain separation among three branches of government (assembly, courts, and executive); and
                    European authorities were useful to secure support for the American cause in 
                        England
                     and 
                        France
                    . Though there is a great difference between a theory and its actual operation, the two
                    have the same spark of life.2 The development of the American system of
                    separation of powers largely took place in the new American states between 1776 and 1784. It can be
                    traced in the reasoning of individuals and also in the framing of state constitutions.
            Thomas Jefferson (1743-1826) may be selected as representing the change in the individual thinking
                    which paralleled the change in the working of organizations.
            Jefferson's political philosophy evolved, usually in harmony with the majority of the voters
                    and politicians in the political unit in which he was working, as he gained experi- 
                  
                     * Darwin Kelley is an instructor in the Department of
                            Social Studies, Central High School, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Edward S. Corwin, "The Progress of Constitutional Theory
                            Between the Declaration of Independence and the Meeting of the 
                                Philadelphia
                             Convention," American Historical Review, XXX (1925),
                            511-536. The other two were federalism and bills of rights.
                  
                     2 William Bondy, The Separation of Governmental
                            Powers (
                                New York
                            , 1896), 39-47; Benjamin F. Wright, Jr., "The Origin of Separation of
                            Powers in America," Economica, XIII (1933), 169-185; William
                            Holdsworth, A History of English Law (12 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1938), X, 713, 716, 722. Holdsworth concludes that separation of powers was a
                            substantially true analysis of the English constitution during the greater part of the
                            eighteenth century.
               
                     ence. What made it possible for him to change with experience
                    and keep firmness of purpose was that he always centered on liberty as a precious way of life within
                    reach.
            In 1769 Jefferson was first elected to the 
                        Virginia
                     House of Burgesses where he promptly alligned himself with the liberal, often called
                    radical, group. It was not long until he was recognized as one of their leaders, and when preparing
                    for service in the First Continental Congress he wrote a pamphlet entitled Summary View
                        of the Rights of British America.
               3 This Summary View
                    was a courageous and inspiring blowing of the trumpet for American liberty, and a withering
                    criticism of the despotism of the king and the tyranny of Parliament. On page after page Jefferson
                    listed and condemned policies and laws that violated liberty, bluntly stating that the
                    "true ground on which we declare these acts void is that the British parliament has no
                    right to exercise authority over us."4 Except where Parliament could be
                    controlled by representative government, he considered its tryanny worse than the despotism of the
                    king. Jefferson maintained that the American assemblies had authority within their areas similar to
                    that of Parliament in 
                        England
                    , that the king was "no more than the chief officer of the people …
                    and consequently subject to their superintendence,"5 that he was the
                    servant rather than the proprietor of the people, and that his task was to keep harmony in the
                    Empire.
            Jefferson championed the colonial legislative point of view, for the "god who gave us life,
                    gave us liberty at the same time." Since the king and Parliament were expected by Jefferson
                    to do what the Americans would accept as "just,"6 not only was
                    the king reduced to a servant instead of an executive but also the high court of Parliament (king,
                    lords, and commons) was confronted with American assemblies determining what was just. Since both
                    George III and Parliament were prepared to use force to uphold their powers, the Americans had the
                    choice of submission or revolution.
            
               
                  3 This document may be found in Julian P. Boyd (ed.), The
                            Papers of Thomas Jefferson (13 vols., 
                            Princeton
                        , N.J., 1950-1956), I, 121-137.
               
                  4
                        Ibid., I, 126.
               
                  5
                        Ibid., I, 121.
               
                  6
                        Ibid., I, 135; Anthony M. Lewis, "Jefferson's Summary View as a Chart of Political Union," William and Mary
                            Quarterly, V (1948), 51.
            
            
            The Americans chose liberty and revolution. To meet this crisis in 
                        Virginia
                     the revolutionary Committee of Safety exercised all of the powers of
                    government—legislative, executive, and judicial—that had formerly been
                    exercised by the assembly, courts, royal governor, king, and Parliament. Jefferson was a member of
                    this Committee. Moreover, he approved the Articles of Confederation (1775) proposed by Benjamin
                    Franklin which provided for a central organization with legislative supremacy and no suggestion of
                    separation of powers.7 However, the colonies were too jealous of their
                    provincialism to accept 
                        Franklin
                    's proposal. Consequently, the states exercised sovereignty and drafted the
                    first constitutions; and in the states, after the first shock of the crisis, the situation was more
                    favorable than in the central government for a real separation of powers to develop. It was his
                    experience in the state that changed Jefferson's thinking from the support of concentration
                    of powers to the support of separation of powers.
            Probably the two main reasons that separation of powers changed from a popular theory to a vital
                    principle of government were (1) that the state leaders had within their reach, through election
                    either by the houses or by the people, the office of governor, and (2) it was generally accepted
                    that the executive office was the place for leaders whether they were radical or conservative.
                    Consequently, radical leaders such as Patrick Henry and Thomas Jefferson became governors and
                    supporters of separation of powers in their efforts to strengthen the executive. On the other hand,
                    the conservative Roger Sherman did not become governor and continued to oppose separation of
                        powers.8 Had the executive office been unattainable in America because a
                    king occupied the executive position, or weak because a king controlled the incumbent, then the
                    services of popular leaders would have been limited to the legislative branch. Under these
                    circumstances the supremacy of the legislative branch would probably have been established.
            
               
                  7 Claude Halstead Van Tyne, "Sovereignty in the American
                        Revolution," American Historical Review, XII (1907), 529-545; Walter
                        F. Dodd, "The First State Constitutional Conventions, 1775-1783," American Political Science Review, II (1907-1908), 545-561.
               
                  8 Margaret Burnham Macmillan, The War Governors in the
                            American Revolution (
                            New York
                        , 1943), 61, 63.
            
            
            Patrick Henry, one of the most influential and active members of the convention that drafted the 
                        Virginia
                     constitution of 1776, worked hard to vest the executive with a veto in order to defend
                    the office from the usurpations of the legislature. No one but the radical Patrick Henry had enough
                    prestige to urge anything so unpopular with the convention. Yet even he was unable to accomplish it.
                    Nevertheless, although they elected him governor on the same day the constitution was adopted (June
                    29, 1776), the constitution did provide for enough executive power so that a man with the strong
                    executive ideas of Patrick Henry could succeed as governor. He always paid the greatest deference to
                    the legislative branch and in turn received its support during his three-year term in the
                    governor's office.
            Patrick Henry's successor, Thomas Jefferson, approached the governor's office with
                    a very different attitude toward the power of the executive. This attitude lessened the
                    effectiveness of the support that the legislative branch continued to give to the executive.
            The emergency act passed by the general assembly of 
                        Virginia
                     in May, 1780, granted to the governor and council the power to appoint officers, remove
                    disaffected persons, use martial law in case of insurrection, seize needed supplies, and engage a
                    printer at public expense.9 If Jefferson had held the strong executive and
                    military ideas of George Clinton, this statute would have provided ample basis for vigorous action
                    when the British invaded 
                        Virginia
                     in 1780. Instead, Jefferson declared that "we can only be answerable for the
                    orders we give and not for their execution." It is no wonder that 
                        Steuben
                     or an aide-de-camp underscored such an amazing statement from an executive.10 The result was a poor showing in the face of the enemy and loss of popular
                    support.
            It was under these circumstances that Jefferson left office after only two years instead of the three
                    consecutive years allowed by the constitution. For many men this would 
                  
                     9 William Wirt Henry (ed.), Patrick Henry: Life,
                                Correspondence and Speeches (3 vols., 
                                New York
                             1891), I 438; William Waller Hening (ed.), The Statutes at Large:
                                Being a Collection of the Laws of 
                                    Virginia
                                 from … 1619 (13 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1823), IX, 112-119, 491, 503; X, 233.
                  
                     10 Jefferson, Papers, V, 120.
               
                     have been the termination of public life, but for Jefferson the
                    insight received was invigorating. Moreover, his ability to write helped him rebuild his reputation.
                    He used his freedom from the burdens of office to prepare Notes on 
                            Virginia
                        
               ,11 his "most serious piece of book-making, and
                    the one on which the larger part of his philosophical reputation was based during his
                        lifetime."12
            
            Jefferson's adverse criticism of the constitution because it concentrated powers in the 
                        Virginia
                     Assembly showed that he was defending his administration, for the constitution adopted
                    did not grant the assembly substantially greater powers or the executive less power than the drafts
                    of constitutions that Jefferson had prepared for the convention. Nevertheless, his reasoning went
                    beyond personal consideration. Pushing for an organization that would preserve liberty, he
                    proclaimed that "elective despotism was not the government we fought for … the
                    powers of government should be so divided and balanced among several bodies of magistracy, as that
                    no one could transcend their legal limits, without being effectively checked and restrained by the
                        others."13 When Jefferson drafted another proposed constitution in
                    1783, which will be considered in more detail later, the use of separation of powers as a
                    fundamental principle became even more apparent. Although he had learned while he was governor that
                    the executive needed to be strong, he still viewed with horror the idea of the executive being a
                    dictator even for an emergency.14
            
            A development parallel to the progression in the thinking of Jefferson can be traced in the state
                    constitutions. Since all of these constitutions were understood to be in accord with the theory of
                    separation of powers, the interpretation of this theory much have been very broad indeed. It is
                    difficult to find more than two critical points on which there was general agreement. In all states
                    three departments were organized, and in nearly every constitution there was the 
                  
                     11 Paul Leicester Ford (ed.), The Writings of Thomas
                                Jefferson (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1892-1899), III, 68-295.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., III, 68. Comment by the editor.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., III, 224.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., III, 231-232.
               
                     provision that no person would exercise the duties of more than
                    one department at a time.
            In the wording of the theory there was more similarity, although a different emphasis did indicate a
                    change in the distribution of powers. When the 
                        Virginia
                     statement (1776) is compared with that of 
                        Massachusetts
                     (1780) it is easy to see that the latter went further in actual separation. In the 
                        Virginia
                     bill of rights: "The legislative, executive, and judiciary department, shall
                    be separate and distinct, so that neither exercises the powers properly belonging to the other; nor
                    shall any person exercise the powers of more than one of them, at the same time; except that the
                    justices of the County Courts shall be eligible to either House of Assembly."15 But the 
                        Massachusetts
                     declaration of rights stated: "In the government of this commonwealth, the
                    legislative department shall never exercise the executive and judicial power, or either of them: the
                    executive shall never exercise the legislative and judicial powers, or either of them: the judicial
                    shall never exercise the legislative and executive powers, or either of them: to the end it may be a
                    government of laws and not of men."16
            
            Other aspects of the state constitutions important for separation of powers may be considered in the
                    order in which they were drafted. When the English authority was rejected, the colonists, needing
                    governments, organized what were called conventions. These exercised all of the powers of government
                    until the constitutions were adopted.
            The constitution of 
                        Virginia
                    , the first one drafted with independence in view, was especially important because it
                    laid the pattern for all of the states either to follow or change as they preferred. Well aware of
                    the significance of what was to take place, John Adams of 
                        Massachusetts
                     and Richard Henry Lee of 
                        Virginia
                    , members of Congress meeting at 
                        Philadelphia
                    , discussed constitutions. Lee was impressed with the ideas of John Adams, and requested
                    him to form a plan for government. This led to the publication of 
                  
                     15 Francis Newton Thorpe (ed.), The Federal and State
                                Constitutions, Colonial Charters, and Other Organic Laws (7 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1909), VII, 3815. This constitution did not use articles and sections.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., III, 1893, Part I, article 30.
               
                    
                    Thoughts on Government Applicable to the Present State of the American Colonies,
                    the first important publication dealing with the best form of government.17 It
                    plainly stated that "a single assembly, possessed of all the powers of government, would
                    make arbitrary laws for their own interest, execute all laws arbitrarily for their own interests,
                    and adjudge all controversies in their own favor."18 Among other
                    provisions to keep the executive and judicial branches strong he proposed a veto for the governor
                    and office for life for the judges. But John Adams was one of the few Americans who had recovered
                    enough from the quarrels with the royal governors to believe that the executive could be powerful
                    without being dangerous.
            The members of the convention which drafted the constitution for 
                        Virginia
                     based their work on the draft of George Mason. Their legal statements were summaries of
                    what they had been saying for years. Consequently, the power of the legislative branch they drafted
                    with ease and precision because in this branch they had long experience in the colonial assemblies.
                    But the colonial governors had been shrouded in the mystery of and the hostility to the Crown; and
                    the judicial authority within the colony and in the high court of Parliament had not been clearly
                    defined. Thus, as an effect, the executive and judicial branches were left vague in the 
                        Virginia
                     constitution.
            The 
                        Virginia
                     legislature consisted of two houses, the House of Delegates and the Senate. Each house
                    chose its speaker, appointed its own officers, settled its own rules of procedure, directed writs of
                    election for vacancies, and voted on all bills. The houses were instructed to settle an adequate but
                    modest salary on the governor. The House of Delegates could prosecute cases, and the two houses
                    could pass laws directing the use of pardons and reprieves. Each house adjourned itself. A joint
                    ballot was used to choose a governor, a privy council, delegates to the Continental Congress,
                    judges, a secretary, and an attorney general.
            
               
                  17 Allan Nevins, The American States During and After the
                            Revolution, 1775-1789 (
                            New York
                        , 1924), 122. The pamphlet may be found in Charles Francis Adams (ed.), The Works of John Adams (10 vols., 
                            Boston
                        , 1850-1856), IV, 193-200.
               
                  18 Adams, Works, IV, 196.
            
            
            The provisions for the governor were not only shorter but also were marked by what he could not do. In addition to the provision for his election for only one year by joint
                    ballot of the legislature was the restriction that he could hold office no longer than three
                    successive years, and only after a lapse of four years was he again eligible. He was not, under any
                    pretext, to exercise any power or prerogative by virtue of any law, statute, or custom of 
                        England
                    . Nor was he to prorogue or adjourn the assembly. Nevertheless, he had substantial
                    powers, usually to be exercised with the advice of the council. The governor exercised executive
                    powers according to the laws of the commonwealth, granted pardons, called the assembly, appointed
                    officers to the militia, was authorized to embody the militia, and appointed justices of the peace
                    for the counties. Moreover, the governor alone directed the militia when it was embodied.
            Little was stated about the judicial department, except that the judges were to be appointed by a
                    joint ballot of the houses, to have fixed and adequate salaries, and to hold office during good
                    behavior. Provision was made for their impeachment by the House of Delegates if this action should
                    ever be necessary.
            The 
                        Pennsylvania
                     constitution (completed September 28, 1776) was the next constitution important for
                    establishing the organization of the powers of government. Though there were three departments,
                    nearly all of the powers were granted to a unicameral assembly.19 There were
                    good features in the constitution, such as the abolition of property qualifications for voting, and
                    it has been praised as the most democratic of the state constitutions.20 But the
                    government under it functioned so poorly that both the one-house legislature and concentration of
                    powers were discredited. Moreover, the conservatives popularized the idea of the need for an
                    increased separation of powers as an argument for a new constitution.
            Without doubt the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     constitution was faulty, although it is open to question whether this was because of
                        
                  
                     19 Thorpe (ed.), Constitutions, V 3085. Especially
                            the elastic clause in Section 9 was to the advantage of the assembly.
                  
                     20 J. Paul Selsam, The 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Constitution of 1776 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1936), 183; Robert Levere Brunhouse, The Counter-Revolution in 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , 1776-1790 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1942), 87.
               
                     the concentration of powers. The radicals had no talented
                    individual to do the drafting; their one great man, Benjamin Franklin, was too busy in Congress.
                    Perhaps this explains why neither the provisions for the publication of bills nor the council of
                    censors that was established functioned effectively. Only an idealist without experience in
                    government would have believed that the council of censors, who had only public censure and
                    recommendations to enforce their decisions, could secure the enforcement of the constitution.21 But even had there been no defects in the constitution, it is doubtful
                    whether government under it could have been successful for the simple reason that the party
                    antagonisms in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     were more violent than in any other state.
            The inability of radicals and conservatives to work together in the legislature made more disastrous
                    the weak executive branch. The one-house legislature, which with political parties working together
                    could have been efficient, contrasted with a plural executive selected in an ingenious manner. An
                    executive council of twelve was chosen by the electors; then the assembly and council by joint vote
                    annually chose a president from the council. The president could only act with the consent of the
                    council. This proved to be about as weak as anything could be and still be called an executive
                    branch. As Joseph Reed, an able radical and a military man who served as president, explained,
                    successful political action was impossible when it was constantly necessary to have a council
                        concur.22
            
            Unlike the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     constitution, the 
                        New York
                     constitution (April 20, 1777) was influential because it was successful. Three probable
                    causes for this accomplishment in 
                        New York
                     were that John Jay provided the basic draft, that the radicals and conservatives worked
                    together, and that George Clinton became the first governor.
            The political skill of Clinton even made usable two unlikely provisions that had been inserted in the
                    constitution—a council of revision and a council of appointments. The council of
                    revision, composed of the governor, chancellor, and 
                  
                     21 Thorpe (ed.), Constitutions, 3091, article 47.
                  
                     22 Jared Sparks (ed.), Correspondence of the American
                                Revolution, Being Letters of Eminent Men to George Washington (4 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1853), III, 16.
               
                     judges of the Supreme Court, had a veto which could be
                    overridden only by a two-thirds vote of the assembly. At the time of adoption this pleased the
                    radical majority, led by John Morin Scott, because it placed a check on the executive. It also
                    pleased the conservatives because it placed a check on the legislative branch.23
                    However, the radicals elected their own governor, Clinton, who did not identify himself clearly with
                    the vetoes, and the conservatives found that many bills were passed over the veto of the council. As
                    for the council of appointments, on paper it might seem that control was granted to the assembly
                    which selected senators to form the council. Actually, as the governor was president of the council
                    and had a "casting voice but no other vote," Clinton was able to dominate the
                        council.24
            
            Even though the governor shared the veto and power of appointment with a council, the 
                        New York
                     constitution marked the beginning of a strong executive department. The governor,
                    elected for three years by the freeholders and eligible to be re-elected any number of times, had
                    the supreme executive power. He had authority to convene the legislature for extraordinary
                    occasions, to prorogue the legislature for not longer than sixty days in one year, to grant
                    reprieves and pardons, to make recommendations to the legislature at every session, and to
                    correspond with the Continental Congress and other states.25
            
            After Clinton was elected governor the oath of office had to be delayed because of the impracticality
                    of Brigadier General George Clinton leaving his post until the designs of the enemy were known.
                    Re-elected for the entire period covered by this study, Clinton was a very popular radical leader
                    who secured and kept the support of the people because he had good judgment, a strong character, a
                    vigorous personality, and was a skillful politician. 
                        Washington
                     had confidence in him.26
            
            
               
                  23 E. Wilder Spaulding, 
                     
                                New York
                             in the Critical Period 1783-1789 (
                            New York
                        , 1932), 88; Alexander Flick (ed.), History of the State of 
                                New York
                            
                   (10 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1933-1937), IV, 151-183.
               
                  24 E. Wilder Spaulding, His Excellence George Clinton, Critic
                            of the Constitution (
                            New York
                        , 1933), 95; Thorpe (ed.), Constitutions, V, 2633, article 23.
               
                  25 Thorpe (ed.), Constitutions, V, 2632-2633, articles
                        17-19.
               
                  26 George Clinton, Public Papers (10 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1899-1914), II, 122; Charles Z. Lincoln, The Constitutional History
                            of 
                                New York
                             from the Beginning of the Colonial Period to the Year 1905 … (5
                        vols., 
                            Rochester
                        , N.Y., 1906), I, 572-576.
            
            
            No man was clearer in concept or firmer in support of the principle of separation of powers than
                    Clinton, who worked in harmony with the legislature and respected the judicial power. On September
                    10, 1777, in an address to the legislature Clinton gave careful attention to the plan of government.
                    He considered it the duty of those who were entrusted with the operation of legislative, executive,
                    and judicial powers to remain within their departments and repay the trust placed in them by their
                        constituents.27
            
            
               
                        Massachusetts
                     was the last state where important changes were made in the organization of powers
                    before the Constitutional Convention in 1787. The 
                        Massachusetts
                     constitution (1780) was carefully drafted and shows some of the best thinking of the
                    conservative John Adams, then at the height of his influence in the state and its main architect.28 He had the advantage of working with delegates who were instructed to support
                    separation of powers.29 Several steps further than 
                        New York
                     had gone were taken in the direction of separation. The two most important were that
                    the governor was granted a veto and was allowed to appoint certain officials. On the other hand, the
                    governor of 
                        Massachusetts
                     was elected for only one year.30
            
            The reader may have observed that there has been little mention here of the judicial branch. The
                    reason for this is that there were few provisions for the judiciary in the constitutions, and a
                    better understanding of the development of the judiciary can be secured by examining the court
                    decisions. For a time the judicial departments were weak because of the unsettled war conditions,
                    and the fact that earlier final judicial control in 
                        England
                     had linked the judicial branch with English injustice. But in a few years the state
                    courts had made a remarkable recovery.
            It is usually agreed that the members of the Constitutional Convention in 1787, as well as later men
                    influential in shaping the growth of the constitutions, were familiar with 
                  
                     27 Clinton, Papers, II, 300.
                  
                     28 Albert Bushnell Hart (ed.), Commonwealth History of 
                                    Massachusetts
                                
                      (5 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1927-1930), III, 189.
                  
                     29 Henry A. Cushing, History of the Transition from
                                Provincial to Commonwealth Government in 
                                    Massachusetts
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1896), 229.
                  
                     30 Thorpe (ed.), Constitutions, III, 1893, Part II,
                            chap. I, section 1; Part II, chap. II, section 1, articles 2, 9.
               
                     these early state decisions. However, the extent of the
                    influence of these early decisions has been a matter of controversy. It is often stated, with ample
                    evidence, that the men at the Constitutional Convention of 1787 did not mention these cases. But
                    such a fact is of doubtful importance because in so doing these men were following the custom in the
                    state conventions of having little discussion on the judicial branch. Some consider it even more
                    significant that Alexander Hamilton writing in The Federalist, that the Supreme
                    Court of the 
                        United States
                     in the case of Hylton v. 
                        
                            United States
                        
                     (1796),31 and that John Marshall in his famous decisions did not mention
                    these state cases. One thing is certain: the American concept of judicial power in the separation of
                    powers was first used in the individual states.
            Before 1787 in five states (
                        Virginia
                    , Rhode Island, 
                  New Jersey, Massachusetts
               , and 
                        North Carolina
                    ) the judges decided whether legislation was constitutional or unconstitutional. These
                    cases were: 1778 or 1782, Case of Josiah Phillips, 
                        Virginia
                    ; 1782, Commonwealth v. Caton, 
                        Virginia
                    ; 1786, Trevett v. Weeden, Rhode Island; 1780 or
                    1787, Holmes v. Walton, 
                        New Jersey
                    ; 1786 or 1787, Anonymous Case, 
                        Massachusetts
                    ; and 1787, Bayard v. Singleton, 
                        North Carolina
                    .
            Not much has been learned about the case of Josiah Phillips. There has been some dispute whether this
                    case or Holmes v. Walton was the first in American judicial
                    history after the Declaration of Independence in which a legislative enactment was held void by a
                        court.32 In the case of Holmes v. Walton
                    Chief Justice David Brearly probably gave the decision orally and it was never written; at least the
                    decision has not been found. However, other evidence shows that the judgment was clearly announced
                    after careful consideration with the desire to fix the scope of judicial power, and that 
                  
                     31 3 Dallas, Supreme Court Reports, 171 (1796);
                            Edward S. Corwin, The Doctrine of Judicial Review (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1914) 63; Robert K. Carr, The Supreme Court and Judicial
                                Review (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 43; Brinton Coxe, An Essay on Judicial Power and
                                Unconstitutional Legislation (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1892), 220; Arthur T. Vanderbilt, The Doctrine of Separation of
                                Powers and Its Present Day Significance (
                                Lincoln
                            , Nebr., 1953), 46.
                  
                     32 Austin Scott, "Holmes v. Walton: The 
                                New Jersey
                             Precedent: A Chapter in the History of Judicial Power and Unconstitutional
                            Legislation," American Historical Review, IV (1895-1899), 456.
                            Scott gives the date for the actual settling of the case Holmes v. Walton as September 7, 1780. He concluded that this was the first
                        case.
               
                     the judgment was received with general approbation by the people
                    and acquiescence by the legislature. Also it is known that, when judicial problems were under
                    discussion at the Constitutional Convention in 1787, David Brearly, still chief justice of his
                    state, was the one man at the federal convention who had given a judicial decision that a law was
                        un-constitutional.33
            
            In the Anonymous Case in 
                        Massachusetts
                     the judges declared a statute unconstitutional, and in the next session the law was
                    repealed. Trevett v. Weeden has attracted much attention. Not
                    only did the court set aside an act of the legislature as unconstitutional, on the ground that the
                    legislature had no power to change the constitution, but also the decision favored the conservative
                    view of property rights as against the radical attempts to use paper money. This case did much to
                    convince the conservatives that there should be a strong central government with a strong
                        judiciary.34
            
            Especially important was the reasoning in the case Commonwealth v. Caton. George Wythe, who as chancellor was ex officio a member of the 
                        Virginia
                     Supreme Court of Appeals, based his reasoning on separation of powers. This principle,
                    he affirmed, sapped tyranny, kept the departments within their spheres, protected the citizens, and
                    preserved liberty. These beneficial results, he reasoned, were attained when the tribunals declared
                    the law impartially between those who hold the purse and those who hold the sword; in this way the
                    pretensions of each party were fairly examined, their respective powers ascertained, and the
                    boundaries of authority peaceably established. If the whole legislature, an event which he
                    deprecated, should attempt to overlap the bounds prescribed to them by the people, he was ready to
                    meet their united powers at the seat of his tribunal; here he would tell them that the state
                    constitution determined the limits of their authority. Wythe only went so far as to say that the
                    courts had the power to declare an act unconstitutional. James Mercer went further and declared that
                    an act 
                  
                     33 Scott, "Holmes v. Walton," 459-469.
                  
                     34 Coxe, An Essay on Judicial Power, 219; John R.
                            Wilson, "The Origin of the Power of Courts to Declare Legislative Acts
                            Unconstitutional," in Report of the Third Annual Meeting of the State
                                Bar Association of Indiana, III (1899), 20-44; Peleg W. Chandler, American Criminal Trials (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1844), II, 267.
               
                     was unconstitutional. Edmund Pendleton asserted that the
                    assembly should adhere to separation of powers lest the courts be compelled to decide against them.
                    But Pendleton, and a majority of the eight judges in this case, gave the opinion that the Treason
                    Act was a proper exercise of legislative power. Pendleton, along with Wythe and others, was a firm
                    believer in a strong, independent, upright judiciary.35
            
            The case of Bayard v. Singleton came too late in 1787 to
                    influence the drafting of the 
                        United States
                     Constitution. Reasoning in this case was not fundamentally different from that used by
                    Wythe although the language was less impassioned; it was simply stated that the constitution was the
                    fundamental law of the state and that the judicial power was bound to take full notice of
                    fundamental law as well as any other law.36
            
            These cases show that some state courts were declaring state laws to be unconstitutional. However, in
                    some other states the conclusions were very different, as is shown by two cases. In conservative 
                        South Carolina
                     the courts held the first two constitutions to be no more than acts of the legislature
                    which the legislature could revise and amend,37 and in 
                        New York
                     the case of Rutgers v. Waddington had occasioned
                    the court to declare that no court could declare a questionable statute constitutional or
                        unconstitutional.38
            
            These constitutions were the fundamental laws defended by John Adams, when he was minister to 
                        England
                    , against the attacks of the celebrated philosopher and minister of France, M. Turgot,
                    who advocated all authority in one chamber.39 The first volume of the Defense was published in time to circulate among the members of the Constitutional
                    Convention in 1787. This statement by John Adams revived and freshened the belief of the members of
                    the Convention in separation of powers.
            
               
                  35
                        Commonwealth v. Caton, 4 Call 6, 
                     
                                Virginia
                             Reports (1782); David John Mays, Edmund Pendleton, 1721-1803,
                            A Biography (2 vols., 
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1952), II, 105, 198, 200.
               
                  36
                        Bayard and Wife v. Singleton, 1 
                            Martin
                        , 
                     
                                North Carolina
                             Reports, 48 (1787).
               
                  37 Thorpe (ed.), Constitutions, VI, 3248n.
               
                  38 Wilson, "Power of Courts," 20-44.
               
                  39 Adams, Works, IV, 299.
            
            
            In 1783, when he drafted another proposed constitution for 
                  Virginia, Jefferson
               's work
                    showed his own experience and the influence of other state constitutions. He provided for stronger
                    executive and judicial departments, and stated plainly that the general assembly should have no
                    authority to infringe upon the constitution.40 A more specific limitation was
                    that the removal of a judge should require a two-thirds vote. The executive, elected by joint ballot
                    of both houses, had a term of five years and was ineligible for a second term. In a less elaborate
                    statement than in 1776 Jefferson listed the powers denied the governor. But Jefferson had deep
                    memories of the king as the destroyer of liberty and denied the governor any power based on the
                    prerogative of the Crown. Moreover, the governor was chosen by joint ballot of both houses of
                    assembly, remainded in office five years but was ineligible a second time, had a council which was
                    also chosen by joint ballot, and exercised a limited veto as a member of a council of revision. What
                    power the executive was to have still gave Jefferson trouble, which he resolved by an appeal to
                    reason: "We give him those powers only which are necessary to carry into execution the
                    laws, and which are not in their nature either legislative or Judiciary. The application of this
                    idea must be left to reason."41
            
            One careful student of the draft of Jefferson was James Madison who also was conversant with the
                    state constitutions. 
                        Madison
                    , in agreement with Jefferson that to secure proper separation of powers required limits
                    on the power of the legislature, suggested that this could be secured by denying to the legislature
                    any power to appoint other than their own officers, and by the election of the executive by the
                    people, as in 
                        New York
                     and several other states, or through any other channel than the legislature. 
                        Madison
                     also believed that the judicial department should be limited. He proposed that bills
                    should be separately communicated to the executive and judicial departments; and that if a bill were
                    passed by a two-thirds or three-fourths majority, the exact vote necessary to be decided later, over
                    either or both of their 
                  
                     40 Jefferson, Papers, VI, 298 et
                                passim.
                  
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., VI, 299.
               
                     objections, neither the judges nor the executive should be
                    allowed to pronounce the law unconstitutional. As it was, 
                        In the State Constitutions and indeed in the Federal one also, no provision is made for the
                            case of a disagreement in expounding them; and as the Courts are generally the last in
                            making their decisions, it results to them by refusing or not refusing to execute a law, to
                            stamp it with its final character. This makes the Judiciary Department paramount in fact to
                            the Legislature, which was never intended and can never be proper.42
                  
                    
            
            Thus in the states between 1776 and 1787 the European theory of separation of powers was Americanized
                    and became a fundamental principle operating in the organization of government.
            
               
                  42
                        Ibid., VI, 315.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            Recollections of a Dead Art: The Traveling Chautauqua
            
                    Evert M. Winks, as told to Robin W. Winks
                    *
                
            Recently, while attending programs of the 
                        Colorado
                     Chautauqua in 
                        Boulder
                     and the Music Festival in Aspen, I was led to think of six summers that I spent with a
                    form of art which today is not only dead but forgotten—the traveling chautauqua. The term
                        chautauqua itself is one which virtually is unknown to the youth of today, and
                    even to many of adult years it signifies only the permanent camp or cultural center where motion
                    pictures, talks, and musical programs are presented. The first and most famous chautauqua in 
                        New York
                    , in which Henry Ward Beecher and William Jennings Bryan spoke, was a permanent location
                    to which, each summer, those in search of the spoken word and of American culture would travel. But
                    a far more pervasive influence on the American scene than such permanent centers, to which only a
                    limited number of people could go, was the chautauqua which took its wares, its inspiration and its
                    information, directly to the people. It was with such a group, in its declining years, that I
                    worked.
            To the best of my recollection we were not aware at the time that we were working with a fading
                    business. The crowds were large, the required guarantee usually was oversubscribed, and we all
                    worked harder than any dying job could have asked. Only in my last year with the chautauqua was I
                    aware of a decline, and this most of us credited to the recession of the early twenties rather than
                    to a permanent disability. Nevertheless, unknown to me at the the, I was working with the chautauqua
                    during its last years of health.
            I was a high school student in 1916 when I received my first summer job with the Welfare Chautauqua
                    Company of 
                  
                            
                        * Evert M. Winks was born in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . He attended Short-ridge High School and Purdue University, from which he
                                obtained B.S. and M.S. degrees. After several years of coaching and teaching vocational
                                agriculture in Indiana, he moved to 
                                    Colorado
                                , where he continues to coach—producing a state championship
                                track team—and to teach. He now teaches in 
                                    Boulder County
                                 during the year and teaches in the Extension Division of the University of 
                                    Colorado
                                 in the summer.
                            Robin W. Winks was born in West 
                                    Lafayette
                                , Indiana, and grew up in 
                                    Colorado
                                . An honor graduate of the University of 
                                    Colorado
                                 and a Fulbright Scholar in 1952, he received his Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins
                                University in 1957 and is now on the faculty of the Yale University Department of
                                History.
                        
               
                    
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    . I changed to the Community Chautauqua of 
                        Greencastle
                     the following year and continued to work with traveling chautauquas each summer for six
                    years, until I had nearly finished college. During part of this time my brother, Orlando, also
                    worked with chautauquas, although he never was with me when we were on the road. For the most part
                    we toured Indiana, although after the first year our tours took us out of the state as well.
            A traveling chautauqua was everything that the permanent, and more famed, chautauquas were. It was
                    not in any sense a carnival. Nothing was sold, nothing was advertised; there were no side shows, no
                    juggling acts. One of the most difficult points to impress on local toughs as we would arrive in
                    each successive town was that the girls with our show were not "carnies" but that
                    they were dedicated students and hopeful artists, usually of a deeply religious nature. The purpose
                    of the chautauqua was to bring to the small towns and rural communities, primarily of the Middle
                    West, some taste of oratory, of music, and of educational entertainment. The quickest way to get a
                    chautauquan angry was to call the big tent in which the program was held "a
                    carnival."
            This is not to say, of course, that the programs were not entertaining. Our chautauqua presented two
                    programs a day while it was in town, either for a three- or for a five-day period, and both programs
                    were different. The afternoon program began at 2:30, the evening program at 7:30, and each lasted
                    from one and a half to two hours. The admission charge was high for those days, especially if one
                    remembers that a farmer might want to buy tickets for his entire family, but these rural people
                    showed their eagerness to learn, to reach out and touch what we brought to them, by coming
                    nonetheless.
            A typical program might consist of an intermixture of talks, music, and community participation
                    projects. An Italian band, resplendent in bright uniforms, was one of the main attractions. My wife
                    remembers attending chautauquas in 
                        Monroe City
                     and Wheatland, in southern Indiana, at which this band played—the same band
                    which was with our group, and which was a common point of interest to us when we first met six years
                    later. There would be a talk, perhaps by a Protestant minister, on "A Brighter
                    Tomorrow," followed by a male quartet, a trio, or a reading. A song leader would fill in
                    the gaps by getting the congregation to sing "Onward Christian Soldiers" or
                    "She'll Be Comin' Round the Mountain." The flavor of the program
                    was heavily Protestant, but  I can remember no anti-Catholic or
                    anti-Semitic elements in the program, and there were Jewish and Catholic performers in our group.
            My job had the high-sounding title of Assistant Superintendent of the Tent, and this meant hard work
                    and little sleep. There were three tents in our chautauqua, each of which had a superintendent who
                    supervised the handling of the tent and an assistant who led the work crew which put it up and took
                    it down. As assistant, I also had a tent man, in this case a boy from Sheridan, Indiana. Only one
                    tent was used at each location, and it required a day to set it up and a long night to take it down.
                    So that the performers would lose no time, one tent always would be ahead of the current
                    performance, and it would be up by the time the troupe arrived, ready for use. After the performers
                    had finished on the last night, it was my job to see to it that the tent was taken down as quickly
                    as possible, packed on flatcars, and sent by rail to two performance points ahead. I was in charge
                    of having the tent ready for use in time, and to move tents which weighed between 3,500 and 4,200
                    pounds, and which were divided into sixteen huge pieces, around the countryside required efficient
                    and willing workers. Another of my tasks was to erect and patrol the tent wall. Because the tent
                    would become stifling inside during the hot summer nights, we would roll up the tent flaps, and in
                    order to keep those who had not bought tickets from seeing inside we erected a sheer, six foot, all
                    white, canvas wall around the tent. This met the tent in back where it formed the dressing rooms as
                    well.
            The entire chautauqua was conducted with efficiency. Rather than trust too much to a high school or
                    college boy, the head office would have a typed timetable prepared for each assistant superintendent
                    which not only told him where and when the next performance in his tent would be held, but gave him
                    a full railroad timetable for the shipping of the tent and incidental information about the route as
                    well. The chautauqua company, while run as a commercial venture, also had a certain missionary
                    flavor about it, for both the management and the employees seemed to feel that they were taking a
                    needed commodity on the road with them. The manager of our entire group was a Rhodes Scholar named
                    Burlingame who had just returned from 
                        England
                    , and who later went on to the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , while the superintendent of my tent was a senior at the University of 
                        Missouri
                    . Women also played important roles, and on my first circuit a Miss Bill, who taught
                    school at 
                        Lebanon
                    , Indiana, during the year, was my tent superintendent.
            
            In general I was fortunate both with the men with whom I worked and with my tents. One year, as a
                    freshman in college, I was given the task of taking six tents from their storage at
                            
                  Bloomington, Illinois
               , by rail to six different points, without help, and each was
                    delivered safely and on time. I never lost a tent until my last year with the circuit, when three
                    tents were lost—fell down—in a series of heavy winds and rains in the Ozarks
                    of 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Arkansas
                    . I seldom encountered any dishonesty, and when I did it was not on the part of the
                    troupe. In Dundee, 
                        Michigan
                    , I suffered the only theft I encountered in six summers, and this, a trunk of scrip and
                    personal belongings, was recovered by an efficient railroad detective within the hour.
            The scrip was my most important possession, for it was by this that we traveled. Scrip books were in
                    as common use at that time as railroad tickets, and the company would issue ten such books, worth
                    thirty dollars each, to me at the beginning of the tour on June 10, to pay for the shipping of the
                    tents from place to place. The scrip also was used for my own transportation, and the free travel
                    which this work afforded me through eight states was the best of the pay. We were, of course, paid
                    in other ways as well, for we received twenty-two dollars a week and our accommodations, although we
                    usually slept in the tent, and there were other ways that we could make a bit of money on the side.
                    We paid for our own food, so our standard meal was boiled spaghetti and tomatoes, cooked by one of
                    the tent men in back of the dressing rooms. Usually the master of ceremonies for the program would
                    also make a short speech about the nice college boys he had along who loved home cooking, and this
                    frequently led to free meals in the homes of some of the customers.
            The chautauqua was not accepted as well in some states as in others. Our circuit into 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Michigan
                     was an especially fine one, and we were accorded good receptions in 
                  Illinois, Kentucky
               , and 
                        Tennessee
                     as well. On our last year our manager attempted to blaze new ground by taking us into
                    the Ozark country, and here we were often received with a hostile silence. The Ozark people never
                    had seen a chautauqua, and they did not like some of the programs which we presented. In particular,
                    much of our trouble in these two states stemmed from a temperance lecture which was on our evening
                    program. Prohibition had been put into effect shortly before, and the mountaineer had not taken
                    kindly to it. Only in one case was the opposition stronger than indifference, however, and this was
                    in Trumann, 
                        Arkansas
                    .
            
            Trumann was then a rough town of some 4,000 people, in 
                        Poinsett County
                    , built out over a great marsh. I still can remember the slimy green water which slopped
                    under the wooden planking of the town's sidewalks and my impression of stagnation about the
                    entire community. A group of merchants, hopeful of engendering some cultural interest in the region,
                    had given us a guarantee for five days. We arrived shortly behind our placards, which our advance
                    agent had put up for us, to find that most of the townspeople considered us unwelcome. During the
                    first night, while sleeping in the tent, I heard someone ripping up part of the tent wall, and the
                    next morning words to the effect that if we did not pack up and take our temperance lecture with us
                    the tent would be put to the torch were found painted on the canvas. Our superintendent telegraphed
                    our manager, who was a few miles away at Marked Tree with another tent, asking for advice, and he
                    told us to stick it out so that we could collect our guarantee. This we did, and the merchants paid
                    without complaint, but they had failed in their purpose. Our highest attendance any of the five
                    nights was seventeen paid customers.
            
               
                        Missouri
                     was tough too, but here we had community support. If a group of toughs was known to be
                    in the community, the local American Legion would send out a few of its youngest and strongest
                    members, and armed with tent stakes they would handle any disturbance. The situation was especially
                    serious during our stay at 
                        Fulton
                    . On occasions a tough tent-crasher would come sliding down the tent wall, only to be
                    met at the bottom by the blunt end of a sharpened stake. Still, I do not believe that anyone was
                    seriously injured during any of the time I was with the chautauqua, although a boy was drowned at
                    Shoals, Indiana, in 1919 on another circuit.
            There were other problems, of course, but most of these could be handled quickly. The center pole of
                    my tent fell one bitterly cold night along Lake Huron, causing yet another
                    night without sleep. In general, however, it was only one in three or one in five nights that I had
                    to go without sleep, depending on whether we were on a three-day or on a five-day circuit. The rest
                    of the time we could watch the program or see the town. I can still remember standing at
                            
                  Port Huron, Michigan
               , on one such day, looking across to Sarnia, in 
                        Canada
                    , and thinking that I was at last seeing a foreign country. And I remember my first
                    train trip to the Ozarks, when I watched for the mountains to appear, and they never did,  for all that I found were hills no higher than those in southern
                    Indiana, south of my own home in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            But the program, even to me, was the greatest attraction. When I would return home at the end of the
                    tour, just after Labor Day, I could repeat the talks, recitations, readings, and songs which I had
                    heard over and over. To this day I remember "The Shooting of Dan McGrew," or some
                    of the lyrics from our operetta, "The Chocolate Soldier." Only the recitatives
                    were beyond me. I especially marvelled at the beauty of our stage, and its was beautiful when one
                    considered that it had to be transported in sections and set up in a tent. I remember the Arthur
                    Ginzberg String Quartet, a young trio of girls from the DePauw Music School who later made a success
                    at the Drake Hotel in 
                        Chicago
                    , and a Miss H. Kavorik, who did well as a violinist at the Palmer House in the nineteen
                    twenties. I remember "Senator" Edmund Hinshaw of 
                        Nebraska
                    , who traveled with us making "nonpolitical" speeches, delivered
                    haltingly, out across the expanse of his always-dirty shirts. Actually, Hinshaw was a former
                    Hoosier, having been born in 
                        Greensboro
                     in 1860, and he was no longer from 
                        Nebraska
                    , having moved to 
                        Los Angeles
                     to practice law. He never had been a Senator, but he was in the House of
                    Representatives from 
                        Nebraska
                     from 1903 to 1911, and the title followed him around thereafter. Later he became
                    president of a chain of motion picture theaters in 
                        California
                    .
            Every night each performance was so well timed that I could anticipate the performer almost to the
                    line. When one of our orators, who spoke on the ever-popular "Acres of Diamonds"
                    theme which Russell Conwell had made so popular, reached the point where he was killing 
                        Lincoln
                     (the point of which, in this context, escapes me now), I knew it was time to help the
                    girls take their bags to the hotel. And, too, I could look forward to those few communities which
                    had a natural outdoor theater, where I would not have to put up the tent and thus could have two
                    added days of rest. 
                  Salem, Missouri
               , was one such town. These were the days when I could
                    take time to add to my tie collection, for I would buy a tie, which then cost twenty-five cents, at
                    each town where we stopped, as my souvenir.
            The traveling chautauqua was important to the community. It was appreciated and looked forward to by
                    the people. We usually played in communities about fifteen miles apart, so that it would be close
                    enough for the farmers to drive in to visit us and yet not so close as to cause overlapping.
                    Although we never had the chief chautauqua attraction of the 
                    time with us— William Jennings Bryan, the "Boy Orator of the Platte,"
                    who went on the tours each summer even when he was Woodrow Wilson's Secretary of
                    State—we had a group of performers who, even today, would do well, I feel. I read Billboard and Variety, as most of us did, and especially perused
                    the section in the former which was devoted exclusively to the traveling chautauqua or lyceum and
                    its stars. It was always a thrill to read of our own group.
            Whether the chautauquas were making money at this time I do not know, although until the last year,
                    1922, I saw no evidence that they were not. The community to which the chautauqua was invited would
                    guarantee the company $450 for three days or $800 for five days; anything
                    above this which was taken in at the gate was a profit for the merchants or club which had sponsored
                    us, and I feel certain that a majority of such groups did make a profit in this way. During the
                    final year an inkling of what was to come was shown by the fact that our manager was willing, during
                    the final weeks of the circuit, to take food in payment of part of the guarantee. The perishable
                    food was eaten by the troupe, but the non-perishable was sent on by rail to the head office of the
                    company in 
                        Greencastle
                    . During this last year a new company also was founded, at 
                  Pierce City, Missouri
               , in "The Land of the Sky," as its stationery read,
                    but this, the Western Welfare Chautauqua, failed within two years. My brother and I were offered
                    positions with this group, for it was organized by a former member of the Community Chautauqua, and
                    we were given a free trip to 
                        Missouri
                     to discuss it with a Mr. Price.
            Another offer, much more tempting, came from the Red-path people, who had their office in 
                        Calgary
                    , Alberta. I had attended a Redpath chautauqua once in 
                        Ohio
                    , while on the circuit, to see what our rivals were like, and I had been very favorably
                    impressed by their program and stage. But somehow 
                        Calgary
                     just seemed too far away then, to a college sophomore, and so I missed a free trip and
                    an early chance to see the Wild West. At the end of that year I dropped out of the chautauqua so
                    that I could concentrate on finishing my B.S. and M.S. degrees at Purdue University.
            It was, as it turned out, a good time to drop out, for the chautauqua had seen the last of its good
                    days during the seasons I was on the circuit with it. No longer would it hit twenty towns during a
                    summer, or draw capacity crowds. Other forms of entertainment were coming in, and technology was
                    proliferating so rapidly as to break down the very communications barriers upon which the chautauqua
                    rested and  grew. Probably radio was the most potent force, but
                    better highways and the advent of the cheaper automobile hurt rather than helped chautauqua, for
                    instead of making it possible for the farmers of the small communities to come to us, as they had
                    done in Shoals and Paoli, English and Marengo, Orleans and Red Key, Indiana, in 
                        Butler
                     and Beaver Dam, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 
                        Fulton
                     and 
                  Salem, Missouri
               , the roads and automobiles made it possible for the
                    farmers to travel to the larger communities, like 
                  Vincennes, Noblesville
               ,
                    Youngstown, or 
                        Columbia
                    , which we never visited. Then, too, the advent of the motion picture and with it more
                    "sophisticated" or urban-induced tastes had its effect on the traveling
                    chautauqua.
            Most of the chautauqua performers found other ways of continuing with their chosen line of work. For
                    those like myself, of course, it was only part-time work, and as we graduated from our respective
                    colleges and entered our chosen professions we drifted apart. Some, like Redpath, followed the trail
                    to Hollywood. Many of the more permanent performers drifted into a new organization of later years,
                    the National Association for Schools, which sent speakers, artists, and groups to the primary and
                    secondary schools of the country to entertain the school children. It was, in all probability,
                    contemporaries of mine in chautauqua who entertained our sons as grade school students the Indians,
                    artists in colored chalk, lecturers on the ways of the alligator, imitators and caricaturists, trios
                    and soloists-who delighted or bored our own children, depending upon their backgrounds, in the
                    1930's and the 1940's.
            But the traveling chautauqua did much good. It brought to the people of America what was then the
                    best in indigenous American culture. And the fact that the people came should silence once and for
                    all the stereotyped claim that the rural communities of the inland states had no interest in
                    culture. They grasped at that which was available to them, and they used it to improve themselves
                    and the country. Today we see the heritage of such groups in our many small community orchestras and
                    bands, in our small municipal art galleries, in the educational television programs, in the movie
                    "short feature," and in the occasional itinerant speakers who, substituting slide
                    films for the magic lantern, still take their audiences with them vicariously on their travels,
                    still take them into the honor and the glory of the past, and still promise them "A
                    Brighter Tomorrow."
         
         
         
            Henry Hamilton and West 
                        Florida
                    
            
            
                    Edited by Robert R. Rea
                    *
                
            While British armies dressed their ranks with parade-ground deliberation and the Revolutionary forces
                    of 
                        Washington
                     haltingly parodied the European pattern or reverted to their native woods and fences,
                    on the periphery of the British American empire there sputtered and flared a war of less heroic
                    stature but of far greater dimensions. Essentially, the war in the West was a struggle between men
                    and distances, a war in which logistics dominated strategy, and meetings of combatants seemed almost
                    incidental to final victory. It was, in one sense, George Rogers Clark's ability to
                    traverse a battlefield measured in hundreds of miles and Bernardo de Galvez's success in
                    overcoming the problems of combined land and sea operations that secured the Old Northwest to the 
                        United States
                     and the Gulf of Mexico for Spain.
            Military historians agree that distance was one of the chief factors in the British defeat, but they
                    should not fail to observe the efforts of King George's field commanders to overcome those
                    miles which were measured at 
                        Whitehall
                     with a compass and in the woods and swamps of America in days and weeks of
                    heartbreaking toil. At the northern and southern poles of the western theatre of action men like
                    Henry Hamilton and John Campbell were painfully conscious that 
                        Vincennes
                     and Pensacola were as far in time and distance from 
                        New York
                     as was that city from 
                        London
                     itself. In their isolation from the centers of British strength, the two commanders
                    might well look to one another. Between them lay the great valley of America, the 
                        Mississippi
                    , a link between the horns of British settlement, but a highroad beset with many
                    difficulties. To Henry Hamilton at 
                        Vincennes
                     in the winter of 1778-1779, it opened a route for friendly communication and military
                    co-operation. To Brigadier General John Campbell at 
                        Pensacola
                    , the 
                        Mississippi
                     seemed an open door for Rebel invasion and Spanish intervention. The memory of James
                    Willing's raid was very sharp in West 
                        Florida
                    , and with Spanish power building on his flank at 
                  New
                            Orleans, Campbell
                could only
                    feel concern for his exposed 
                  
                     * Robert R. Rea is an associate professor in the Department
                            of History, 
                                Alabama
                             Polytechnic Institute, 
                        Auburn,
                                    Alabama
                     .
               
                     position. The expedition which 
                        Hamilton
                     led to the 
                        Illinois
                     country might well have contributed to the security of West 
                        Florida
                     by re-establishing British control of the Mississippi River and
                    strengthening British influence with the southern Indians.1
            
            On December 17, 1778, the Lieutenant Governor of 
                        Detroit
                     occupied the "miserable picketted work called a fort" at 
                        Vincennes
                    .2 Having no illusions about the trustworthiness of the French habitants, 
                        Hamilton
                     set to work to win over the Indians of the locality and, by establishing contact with
                    the British forces in West 
                        Florida
                    , to inspire a general rising of the southern tribes in conjunction with those of the
                        Ohio valley. Couriers were to be sent to Natchez, the northernmost British
                    post on the 
                        Mississippi
                    , bearing letters for John Stuart, the southern Indian Superintendent, and belts for the
                    Cherokee and Choctaw tribes.
            As the first of two messengers, 
                        Hamilton
                     selected the Indian Kissingua who had joined the governor's expedition at
                    Ouiatenon late in November.3 Kissingua had distinguished himself during the
                    march to 
                        Vincennes
                     and added to proven zeal a considerable knowledge of Indian languages. Moreover, he was
                    under obligation to 
                        Hamilton
                     for the British commander's support of his dubious claim upon the valuable
                    American prisoner Captain Leonard Helm.4 Kissingua was flattered at being
                    singled out for an important service; he knew the country between 
                        Vincennes
                     and Natchez and was acquainted with Superintendent Stuart. 
                        Hamilton
                     avoided committing himself upon specific compensation for the Indian's
                    assignment, but he did promise to "pay him well."5 Edward
                    Hazle, a white man, was chosen to complete the mission.
            
               
                        Hamilton
                     broached his plan on December 23, and Kissingua and Hazle left 
                        Vincennes
                     on Christmas Day. The Indian carried the belts, the white man a letter to Stuart.
                    "These were two daring enterprizing fellows," wrote the 
                  
                     1 James A. James, "Spanish Influence in the West during the
                            American Revolution," Missassippi Valley Historical Review, IV,
                            (1917), 208; Helen L. Shaw, British Administration of the Southern Indians,
                                1756-1783 (
                                Lancaster
                            , Pa., 1931), 15, 144-145.
                  
                     2 John D. Barnhart, Henry Hamilton and George Rogers
                                Clark in the American Revolution (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , 1951), 134.
                  
                            3
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 151-152.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 154.
               
                     governor in his Journal, but he feared for Hazle's
                    safety during the long and arduous trip.6 News of his messengers'
                    progress reached 
                        Hamilton
                     late in January by way of a Shawnee warrior who had encountered Kissingua and Hazle in
                    the Creek country.7 In due course Hazle delivered his letter to Stuart, and some
                    time probably between March 2 and 21, it was forwarded to General Campbell at 
                        Pensacola
                    .
            In the second week of January, 1779, 
                        Hamilton
                     renewed his efforts to establish communication with West 
                        Florida
                    . Spurred, perhaps, by Indian reports of strong British sympathies in the Natchez
                        area,8 he released the trader Guillaume LeComte to travel southward as the
                    bearer of letters to Captain John Blommart at 
                        Natchez
                     and to the Spanish Governor Bernardo de Galvez at 
                        New Orleans
                    . Uncertain, though sanguine, about affairs on the lower 
                  Mississippi, Hamilton
               
                    confided in his Journal that his second letter to Natchez "was designed by its contents to
                    keep the different parties who might become acquainted with them, at their several
                        posts."9 Hence he adopted an optimistic tone, painted the situation
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                     in far brighter colors than actual circumstances warranted, and attempted to intimidate
                    Galvez by epistolary vigor in lieu of military strength.10 As with the first
                    message, this too found its way to Pensacola.
            
               
                        Hamilton
                    's letters had little effect upon their recipients in West 
                        Florida
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                    . John Stuart, suffering a lingering and debilitating illness which culminated fatally
                    on March 21, 1779, could do little to further 
                        Hamilton
                    's schemes for combined Indian action against the American frontier. Brigadier
                    General John Campbell, who only reached Pensacola from 
                        New York
                     on January 17, had more than sufficient local problems to engage his full attention.
                    His troops were sickly and prone to desertion. He lacked adequate funds or credit, tools, boats, or
                    provisions with which to consolidate even the defenses of West 
                        Florida
                    .11 In fact, he had no 
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 156.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 169.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 163.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 164.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Hamilton
                            's letter to Galvez is summarized in John W. Caughey, Bernardo de Galvez in 
                                    Louisiana
                                , 1776-1783 (Berkeley, Calif., 1934), 96.
                  
                     11
                            
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Provincial Archives, English Dominion, Manuscript Vol. IX, pp. 13-14,
                            16, 35-38, 55.
               
                     real opportunity to pursue the strategy suggested by 
                        Hamilton
                    , for even as 
                        Campbell
                     received word of the governor's momentary success, there came also the ominous
                    news of George Rogers Clark's counterattack.12 American victory at 
                        Vincennes
                     necessarily prevented the return of 
                        Hamilton
                    's messenger, Edward Hazle. On June 24, 1779, 
                        Campbell
                     appointed him a Leader of Indians; he remained on the list of West 
                        Florida
                     supernumerary officers as late as October 31, 1780.13 Before the
                    end of the year Galvez, undaunted by 
                        Hamilton
                    's bluff or 
                        Campbell
                    's meager force, struck the British position on the 
                        Mississippi
                    . As the Northwest had passed into American hands, so the Gulf Coast fell before the
                    power of Spain.
            The hope of effective co-operation between 
                        Hamilton
                     and 
                        Campbell
                     was chimerical at best. It is to 
                        Hamilton
                    's credit that he envisioned the possibility; 
                        Campbell
                     apparently satisfied his conscience by transmitting the messages from Fort Sackville to
                    his superiors in America and 
                        England
                    . On March 21, 1779, the commanding officer at 
                        Pensacola
                     forwarded copies of 
                        Hamilton
                    's letters to General Sir Henry Clinton and to Lord George Germain, Secretary
                    of State for the Colonies. The original letters dispatched from 
                        Vincennes
                     do not appear to have survived the vicissitudes of the American Revolution, but 
                        Campbell
                    's copies remain and provide the source from which the correspondence is now
                        published.14
            
            
               
                  12 Information was forwarded from Manchac to Pensacola on March 12 by Lt.
                        Col. Alexander Dickson. Historical Manuscripts Commission, Report on American
                            Manuscripts in the Royal Institutzon, I, 397, 471.
               
                  13 Shaw, British Administration of the Southern Indians,
                        191.
               
                        
                     14 The editor has attempted to reproduce this correspondence as
                            accurately as possible and has made no changes in wording, spelling, or punctuation.
                        
                     
                                Campbell
                            's covering letter to Germain and his copies of 
                                Hamilton
                            's letters are located in the Public Record Office (
                                London
                            ), C.O. 5:597, pp. 17-22, and were transcribed by Dunbar Rowland for his 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Provincial Archives, English Dominion, Manuscript Vol. IX, pp. 71-76.
                            The Library of Congress also holds photostatic copies of this correspondence. A copy of the
                            letter of December 25, 1778, was made by Charles Stuart and is located in the P.R.O., C.O.
                            5:80, p. 327. A transcript of this copy in the Library of Congress Manuscripts Division
                            shows only minor discrepancies attributable to repeated copying.
                        
                     
                                Campbell
                            's letter to Clinton reached New Pork about May 1, 1779, and the
                            enclosed copy of 
                                Hamilton
                            's second letter was apparently forwarded to Germain on May 3. A copy
                            of Clinton's letter of transmittal is to be found among the Clinton Papers in the
                            William L. Clements Library, University of 
                                Michigan
                            , but the enclosure is missing.
                    
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Henry Hamilton to John Stuart, 
                                            Vincennes
                                        , December 25, 1778:
                                
                        Sir
                        The Bearer Mr. Edward Hazle is a young Man who has shewn great Activity and zeal for
                                    His Majesty's service, he can inform you of several particulars which my
                                    hurry will not Allow me to enter into.
                        Upon hearing of the irruption of the Rebels into this Country and the 
                                        Illinois
                                    , I wrote to the Commander in Chief Communicating my sentiments upon the
                                    steps necessary to be taken for their repulse— He has sent a
                                    reinforcement to 
                                        Detroit
                                     of Sailors as well as Soldiers, which has enabled me to come thus far
                                    to keep Post with some regular Troops and Volunteer Companies— The 
                                        Lake
                                     Indians have accompanied me and behaved extremely well. The Ouabach
                                    Indians met me on the way and some of each Nation from the Miamis to this Place have
                                    joined.
                        The Shawnese Mingoes Hurons and some of the Delawares secure the Passes from the
                                    upper part of the 
                                        Ohio
                                    — The Poutconattanises [i.e. Potawatomi] of St Joseph are
                                    engaged to act by the Commanding Officer at Michillimakinac but what their direction
                                    is I do not know— I have sent out parties in every direction from this
                                    Place to bar any intercourse between the Falls of the 
                                        Ohio
                                     and the 
                                        Illinois
                                    .
                        I expect a Reinforcement in the spring— We took this place without firing
                                    a shot, the French Militia in Pay of the Congress as well as the others laid down
                                    their Arms to the Number of two Hundred and twenty Men— We found only two
                                    Pieces of Cannon in the Fort and little or no Stores or Provisions— I am
                                    about strengthening it as I look upon it as a Centrical Post very proper to keep a
                                    good intelligence among all the Indian Nations— If you should see
                                    Eguskawey an 
                                        Ottawa
                                     Chief whom I sent down the River on a scout Consider him as a sensible
                                    Indian, a Considerate Man Cooly brave, but cautious of creating Jealousy among the
                                    other Nations the Ottawas not being Numerous. He is more attended to than any of the 
                                        Lake
                                     Indians— I had the News of there being a Number of well
                                    Affected Indians at the Cherokee River but yesterday, otherways you should have
                                    heard sooner from me— I concluded you might possibly be there, or at
                                    least that my Messenger might hear of you there and find  means to convey this to you— I shall be glad
                                    to hear from you, and to know how the Indians in your part of the world are to be
                                    disposed of next year—I have told the Nations here that I should send a
                                    Belt to the Chickisaws and Cherokees &c. requesting that they would press
                                    the Virginians on their part while we acted against them to the Northward. That
                                    there is a perfect harmony among all the Nations— That the six Nations
                                    have been very successful in their Quarters and have distressed a large Tract of
                                    Country—The last Advices from Niagara mention the German Flats being
                                    entirely laid Waste— General Haldimand arrived at 
                                        Quebec
                                     with a Reinforcement of six thousand Men— All the upper
                                    Posts to be reinforced.
                        I shall be happy to have certain Accounts of the state of the Interests of the People
                                    to the southwest of you— How the Navigation of the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     may be most distressed— Whether all is as quiet in the
                                    southern Provinces of Europe as our Papers would have us believe
                        Please to give good Caution with respect to secrecy and let me know how we may carry
                                    on a Correspondence best— I should think if you send a Man from you with
                                    Ours, when he returns, one from us may accompany him so we shall have guides and the
                                    freshest intelligence possible.
                        Kissingua the Indian who accompanies Mr. Hazle is half 
                                        Ottawa
                                     half Miamis, speaks most Languages— is acute resolute and
                                    artful— requires to be managed, but if kept in temper is capable of being
                                    extremely useful— I have always judged it best to engage such sort of men
                                    by good Treatment.
                        
                                    I beg you to excuse has[t]e and believe Sir
                                    Your very obedient and most humble Servant
                                    Henry Hamilton
                                    Lt. Govr. & Superintendant
                                
                        It is scarce necessary to request you to make such presents to the Indian as
                                    may induce to undertake on a like Occasion Fort Sackville at Post 
                                        Vincennes
                                     Decr. 25th. 1778 John Stuart Esqr superintendant for the southern
                                    Department 
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Henry Hamilton to John Stuart, 
                                            Vincennes
                                        , January 13, 1779:
                                
                        Sir
                        I take Opportunity of Mr. LeComte going to 
                                        New Orleans
                                     to acquaint you, that as early as possible in the spring there will be
                                    an expidition against the Virginians undertaken by the Chickisaws Cherokees
                                    Shawanese Delawares &c. from the southward. By the Mingoes Miamis Wyndatts
                                    and Senicas from the Northward, and from the Poutconattamies Outtawas Chippawas and
                                    Hurons of the Lakes toward Kaskaskias. As I am to have a Considerable reinforcement
                                    from the Commander in Chief I shall remain here till I receive them when I shall
                                    either proceed to attack the Forts of Kentucke or Conhawa or if Necessary look
                                    towards the 
                                        Illinois
                                     first leaving a sufficient Garrison at this place with Cannon and
                                    Ammunition for its defence— We have Already Accounts of a Considerable
                                    Number of Southern Indians being assembled on the Cherokee River who are designed to
                                    come this way, but as this Post is already secured I suppose they will Naturally
                                    take their Course towards Kaskaskias, where there are yet a few of the Rebels,
                                    perhaps the 
                                        Lake
                                     Indians from Michillimakinac may have saved them the trouble by this
                                    time, as a Considerable Body of them was to Act in Conjunction with some Whites, and
                                    left their Castles a little after my leaving 
                                        Detroit
                                     to come into this Country— We have strong parties Out on the
                                    discovery towards the falls of the 
                                        Ohio
                                    , a few towards Kaskaskias, and send down this River Parties relieving
                                    each other to intercept any Boats that may venture up the 
                                        Ohio
                                     with supplies for the Rebels.
                        I suppose there will next year be the greatest Number of Savages on the Frontier that
                                    has ever been known as the six Nations have sent Belts round to encourage their
                                    Allies, who have made a general Alliance— I brought but a few to this
                                    Place, not exceeding three Hundred and Fifty but they were Men Picked by the Chiefs
                                    who accompanied me, and are from thirteen different Nations or Districts
                                    rather— I hope the Undertaking against 
                                        New Orleans
                                     of which no doubt you have before this had intelligence will draw the
                                    Attention of the Spaniards and oblige them to keep for their Own Use the Powder and
                                    Cloathing they design for the upper Posts,  but
                                    if they send any, I have the greatest dependence on your Vigilence and Activity for
                                    intercepting— I am with hearty wishes for your health and
                                    success—
                        
                                    Sir
                                    Your most obedient and
                                    very humble Servant
                                    Henry Hamilton
                                
                        St. 
                                        Vincennes
                                    
                            Jany. 13th. 1779 For the Commandant at the Natchez 
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            County Records in the Genealogy Division of the Indiana State Library1
            
            
                    Carolynne Wendel and Dorothy Riker
                
            
                    
                        Ohio County
                    
                
            Formed 1844 out of 
                        Dearborn County
                    
            
            
               Birth Records 1882-1904 (microfilm)
               Death Records 1882-1900 (microfilm)
               Indexes to Deed Records 1844-1900 (microfilm)
               Marriage Records 1844-1900 (microfilm)
               Indexes to Probate Order Books 1844-1900 (microfilm)
               Wills 1843-1901 (microfilm)
            
            
                    
                        Orange County
                    
                
            Formed 1816 out of 
                  Knox, Gibson
               , and 
                        Washington
                     counties 
                  Birth Records 1882-1940 (index)
                  Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Indexes to Deed Records 1816-1902 (microfilm)
                  Marriage Records 1816-1920 (1816-26 [typed extract and also printed in Indiana Magazine of History, Vol. 37, pp. 189-200]; 1816-54 [microfilmed];
                            1826-1920 [index])
                  Marriage Transcripts 1880-1920 (index)
                  Probate Records 1817-42, 1847-74; indexes 1874-1901 (microfilm)
                  Wills 1816-92 (typed abstracts; 1816-52 printed in Indiana Magazine of History, Vols. 34,
                            35)
               
            
            
                    
                        Owen County
                    
                
            Formed 1819 out of 
                        Daviess
                     and 
                        Sullivan
                     counties 
                  Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Indexes to Deed Records 1819-1902 (microfilm)
               
                    
                  
                     1 A list of the official records available in the Genealogy Division
                            for the counties of Adams through 
                                Noble
                             appeared in the June, 1957, issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                                History. For an explanation of the records listed, see the Introduction to the
                            previous article.
               
                    
                    
                  Marriage Records 1819-1920 (1819-1901 [microfilm]; 1850-1920 [index])
                  Marriage Transcripts 1880-1920 (index)
                  Probate Records 1819-50 (microfilm)
                  Wills 1819-1903 (microfilm)
               
            
            
                    
                        Parke County
                    
                
            Formed 1821 out of 
                        Vigo County
                     and the New Purchase 
                  Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Indexes to Deed Records 1822-38 (typed copy)
                  Marriage Applications 1839-1920 (index)
                  Marriage Records 1829-1920 (1829-60 [typed extract]; 1850-1920 [index])
                  Probate Records 1833-53; indexes 1853-1900 (microfilm) Wills 1834-1909 (microfilm)
                  
                     
                                Perry County
                             Formed 1814 out of 
                                Gibson
                             and 
                                Warrick
                             counties
                  Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Circuit Court, Order Book 1815-32; Complete Record 1817-34 (microfilm)
                  Commissioners Record 1847-51 (microfilm)
                  Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Deed Records 1815-35 (microfilm)
                  Marriage Records 1814-1920 (1814-50 [typed]; 1814-61 [microfilm]; 1850-1920 [index])
                  Marriage Transcripts 1887-1905 (index)
                  Wills 1813-43 (microfilm)
               
            
            
                    
                        Pike County
                    
                
            Formed 1817 out of 
                        Gibson
                     and 
                        Perry
                     counties 
                  Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Death Records 1896-1920 (index)
                  Indexes to Deed Records 1817-1901 (microfilm)
                  Marriage Records 1817-1920 (1817-1903 [microfilm]; 1900-20 [index])
                  Marriage Transcripts 1882-1920 (index)
                  Probate Records 1831-51; indexes 1851-90 (microfilm)
                  Wills 1817-1902 (microfilm)
               
            
            
            
                    
                        Porter County
                    
                
            Formed 1835 out of territory attached to 
                        St. Joseph County
                    ; organized 1836
            The Genealogy Division has no official records for this county
            
                    
                        Posey County
                    
                
            Formed 1814 out of 
                        Warrick County
                    
            
            
               Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
               Circuit Court Order Book 1815-29 (microfilm)
               Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
               Deed Records 1812-32 (microfilm)
               Marriage Applications 1850-1920 (index)
               Marriage Records 1815-1920 (1815-25 [typed]; 1815-46 [microfilm]; 1847-1920 [index])
               Probate Order Book 1815-34 (microfilm)
               Wills 1816-52 (microfilm)
            
            
                    
                        Pulaski County
                    
                
            Formed 1835 out of territory attached to 
                        Cass
                     and 
                        St. Joseph
                     counties; organized 1839
            
               Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
               Marriage Records 1850-1920 (index)
            
            
                    
                        Putnam County
                    
                
            Formed 1822 out of 
                        Vigo
                     and Owen counties and the New Purchase 
                  Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Death Records 1880-1920 (index)
                  Marriage Records 1822-1920 (1822-49 [typed]; 1860-1920 [index])
               
            
            
                    
                        Randolph County
                    
                
            Formed 1818 out of 
                        Wayne County
                    
            
            
               Birth Records 1882-1907 (microfilm)
               Common Pleas and Circuit Court Records 1828-81 (microfilm)
               Death Records 1882-1900 (microfilm)
               Indexes to Deed Records 1820-1901 (microfilm)
               Marriage Records 1819-95 (microfilm)
               Marriage Returns 1882-1900 (microfilm)
               Wills 1819-42, 1847-1900 (microfilm)
            
            
            
                    
                        Ripley County
                    
                
            Formed 1816 out of 
                        Dearborn
                     and Jefferson counties; organized 1818
            
               Birth Records 1882-1906 (microfilm)
               Death Records 1882-1900 (microfilm)
               Indexes to Deed Records 1818-98 (microfilm)
               Marriage Applications 1882-1901 (microfilm)
               Marriage Records 1818-1949 (typed extract)
               Indexes to Probate Records 1834-1900 (microfilm)
               Wills 1818-1900 (microfilm)
            
            
                    
                        Rush County
                    
                
            Formed 1822 out of the New Purchase 
                  Indexes to Deed Records 1822-1907 (microfilm)
                  Marriage Records 1822-1901 (microfilm)
                  Probate Records 1823-57; indexes 1857-1901 (microfilm)
                  Wills 1822-1907 (microfilm)
               
            
            
                    
                        St. Joseph County
                    
                
            Formed 1830 out of territory attached to 
                        Cass County
                    
            
            
               Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
               Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
               Marriage Applications 1882-1920 (index)
               Marriage Records 1850-1920 (index)
            
            
                    
                        Scott County
                    
                
            Formed 1820 out of 
                  Clark, Jefferson, Jennings, Washington
               , and 
                        Jackson
                     counties 
                  Birth Records 1882-1907 (microfilm)
                  Commissioners Record 1820-65 (microfilm)
                  Deed Records 1819-28; indexes 1819-1910 (microfilm)
                  Marriage Records 1820-1908 (microfilm)
                  Probate Order Books 1820-52; indexes 1852-1900 (incomplete) (microfilm)
                  Wills 1838-1923 (microfilm)
               
            
            
                    
                        Shelby County
                    
                
            Formed 1822 out of the New Purchase 
                  Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  
                  Indexes to Deed Records 1822-1902 (incomplete) (microfilm)
                  Marriage Records 1822-1920 (1822-52 [microfilm]; 1822-39 [typed]; 1856-1920 [index])
                  Probate Records 1822-52; indexes 1853-1900 (microfilm)
                  Wills 1858-1906 (microfilm)
               
            
            
                    
                        Spencer County
                    
                
            Formed 1818 out of 
                        Perry
                     and 
                        Warrick
                     counties 
                  Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Deed Records 1818-35 (microfilm)
                  Marriage Records 1818-1920 (1818-63 [microfilm]; 1850-1920 [index])
                  Marriage Returns 1882-90 (microfilm)
                  Marriage Transcripts 1880-1920 (index)
                  Probate and Will Records 1818-30 (microfilm)
               
            
            
                    
                        Starke County
                    
                
            Formed 1835 out of 
                        St. Joseph County
                     and attached territory; organized 1850
            
               Birth Records 1896-1938 (index)
               Death Records 1894-1938 (index)
               Marriage Applications 1840-1920 (index)
               Marriage Records 1869-1938 (index)
               Marriage Transcripts 1905-38 (index)
            
            
                    
                        Steuben County
                    
                
            Formed 1835 out of 
                        La Grange County
                    ; organized 1837
            The Genealogy Division has no official records for this county other than a court docket kept by
                    Justice of Peace C. C. Bodley, 1845-55
            
                    
                        Sullivan County
                    
                
            Formed 1817 out of 
                        Knox County
                    
            
            
               Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
               Death Records 1880-1920 (index)
               Indexes to Deed Records 1850-1901 (microfilm)
               Marriage Applications 1880-1920 (index)
               Marriage Records 1850-1920 (index)
               Indexes to Probate Records 1860-1901 (microfilm)
               Wills 1841-1901 (microfilm)
            
            
            
                    
                        Switzerland County
                    
                
            Formed 1814 out of 
                        Dearborn
                     and Jefferson counties 
                  Birth Records 1882-1907 (microfilm)
                  Death Records 1882-1900 (microfilm)
                  Indexes to Deed Records 1814-1900 (microfilm)
                  Marriage Applications 1882-1900 (microfilm)
                  Marriage Licenses 1814-55, 1885-1901 (photostat of newspaper extracts with typed index)
                  Marriage Records 1854-85 (microfilm)
                  Indexes to Probate Records 1827-1902 (microfilm)
                  Wills 1825-1900 (microfilm)
                  Marriage Transcripts 1880-1906 (index)
               
            
            
                    
                        Tippecanoe County
                    
                
            Formed 1826 out of the New Purchase 
                  Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Marriage Records 1826-1920 (1826-29 [in Indiana Magazine of History,
                            Vol. 32, pp. 316-18, 440-43]; 1830-50 [typed]; 1850-1920 [index])
                  Marriage Transcripts 1880-1906 (index)
               
            
            
                    
                        Tipton County
                    
                
            Formed 1844 from territory attached to 
                  Hamilton,
                            Cass
               , and 
                        Miami
                    
            
            The Genealogy Division has no official records for this county
            
                    
                        Union County
                    
                
            
               Formed 1821 out of 
                     Fayette, Franklin
                  , and 
                            Wayne
                         counties
               Indexes to Deed Records 1821-1900 (microfilm)
               Marriage Records 1821-1900 (microfilm; 1821-30, in Indiana Magazine of
                        History, Vol. 50, pp. 87-91, 193-99)
               Probate Records 1821-45; indexes 1846-52, 1863-81 (microfilm)
               Wills and inventories 1821-27, 1845-1901 (microfilm)
            
            
                    
                        Vanderburgh County
                    
                
            Formed 1818 out of 
                  Gibson, Posey
               , and 
                        Warrick
                     counties 
                  Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Death Records 1892-1920 (indes)
                  
                  Marriage Records 1840-1920 (1840-63 [typed]; 1846-1920 [index])
                  Marriage Transcripts 1882-98 (index)
                  Wills 1823-73 (typed abstracts)
               
            
            
                    
                        Vermillion County
                    
                
            Formed 1824 out of 
                        Parke County
                     and attached territory 
                  Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Marriage Applications 1904-20 (index)
                  Marriage Records 1824-1920 (1824-49 [typed]; 1850-1920 [index])
                  Marriage Transcripts 1882-1920 (index)
               
            
            
                    
                        Vigo County
                    
                
            Formed 1818 out of 
                        Sullivan County
                    
            
            
               Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
               Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
               Deed Records 1816-20 (typed abstracts)
               Marriage Records 1818-1920 (1818-50 [typed]; 1840-1920 [index])
               Marriage Transcripts 1880-1920 (index)
               Wills 1818-48 (typed abstracts)
            
            
                    
                        Wabash County
                    
                
            Formed 1832 from territory attached to 
                        Cass
                     and 
                        Grant
                     counties; organized 1835
            The Genealogy Division has no official records for this county
            
                    
                        Warren County
                    
                
            Formed 1827 out of territory attached to 
                        Fountain County
                    
            
            
               Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
               Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
               Marriage Applications 1882-1911 (index)
               Marriage Records 1828-46 (typed extracts); 1853-1920 (index)
            
            
            
                    
                        Warrick County
                    
                
            Formed 1813 out of 
                        Knox County
                    
            
            
               Birth Records 1882-1920 (index; 1882-1907 [microfilm])
               Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
               Commissioners Record 1813-52 (microfilm)
               Common Pleas and Circuit Court Records 1813-23 (typed abstracts); 1813-38 (microfilm)
               Deed Records 1813-34 (microfilm)
               Estate inventories or sale bills 1813-32 (typed copy)
               Marriage Records 1813-1920 (1813-60 [typed]; 1813-84 [microfilmed]; 1850-1920 [index])
               Marriage Returns 1882-91 (microfilm)
               Probate Order Book 1817-31 (microfilm)
               Wills 1814-59 (typed; 1831-59 on microfilm; 1814-39 [abstracts in Indiana Magazine of History,
                        Vol. 44, pp. 323-26])
            
            
                    
                        Washington County
                    
                
            Formed 1814 out of 
                  Clark, Harrison
               , and Jefferson counties 
                  Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Circuit Court Minute Book 1814-18 (microfilm)
                  Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Deed Records 1814-30; indexes 1814-1911 (microfilm)
                  Marriage Applications 1882-90 (index)
                  Marriage Records 1815-1920 (1815-67 [microfilm]; 1850-1920 [index])
                  Marriage Transcripts 1894-1907 (index)
                  Probate Order Books 1814-24, 1837-52; indexes 1865-99 (incomplete) (microfilm)
                  Wills 1821-30, 1860-1902 (microfilm)
               
            
            
                    
                        Wayne County
                    
                
            Formed 1811 out of 
                        Clark
                     and 
                        Dearborn
                     counties 
                  Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
                  Death Records 1880-1920 (index)
                  Indexes to Deed Records 1816-79 (microfilm)
                  Marriage Records 1811-1920 (1811-20 [printed in Indiana Magazine of
                            History, Vol. 40, pp. 86-102, 188-2051; 1811-60 [microfilm]; 1860-1920 [index])
                  Index to Probate Records 1818-30 (microfilm)
                  Wills 1812-1900 (microfilm; 1812-19 [abstracts printed in Indiana Magazine of
                                History, Vol. 46, pp. 217-191])
               
            
            
            
                    
                        Wells County
                    
                
            Formed 1835 from territory attached to 
                  Allen, Delaware
               , and 
                        Randolph
                     counties; organized 1837
            
               Birth Records 1883-1920 (index)
               Death Records 1883-1920 (index)
               Marriage Applications 1905-20 (index)
               Marriage Records 1837-1920 (index)
            
            
                    
                        White County
                    
                
            Formed 1835 from territory attached to 
                        Carroll County
                    
            
            
               Birth Records 1882-1920 (index)
               Death Records 1882-1920 (index)
               Marriage Records 1850-1920 (index)
            
            
                    
                        Whitley County
                    
                
            Formed 1835 from territory attached to 
                        Elkhart
                     and 
                        Allen
                     counties; organized 1838
            
               Marriage Records 1838-60 (typed extract)
               Tax Duplicate, 1838 (typed)
               Wills 1839-95 (incomplete) (typed copies)
            
         
         
         
            Historical Materials Deposited in Indiana Libraries
            The historical materials indicated below have recently been placed in Indiana libraries for
                    preservation. They are listed here because the Indiana Magazine of History was
                    instrumental in getting them deposited and also to offer information about them to interested
                    persons. The editor invites correspondence about letters, diaries, journals, and other documents
                    which offer significant information concerning the historical development of Indiana or the Old
                    Northwest. At times, such documents can be published in the Indiana Magazine of History. But
                    regardless of whether they are or are not publishable, the editor will be glad, whenever possible,
                    to offer guidance about desirable depositories.
            
               Jacob W. Bartmess Civil War letters. These consist of 107 letters, covering the period
                        1862-1865, 69 of which were printed in the Indiana Magazine of History for
                        March and June, 1956. They have been deposited in the William H. Smith Memorial Library of the
                        Indiana Historical Society at 
                            Indianapolis
                         by Mrs. Nova M. Mertens.
               "Memorandum of the Mexican Campaign" and letters of Henry S. Lane. This
                        Memorandum, kept by Lane during the Mexican War, was published in its entirety in the Indiana Magazine of History, December, 1957. The large number of letters to
                        and from Lane cover the period 1835-1881 and deal chiefly with state and national politics.
                        Deposited in the Indiana University Library by Professor Graham A. Barringer.
               William J. Hamilton, "Early Days in Merrillville (
                            Lake County
                        )." This typescript includes reminiscences of early Merrillville. Deposited
                        in the Indiana University Library by William J. Hamilton.
               Pictures of Dr. Samuel Ross Lyons, former member of the Indiana University Board of Trustees,
                        and his family. Deposited in the Archives, President's Office, Indiana University, by
                        Mrs. Grant Foreman.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Wison's Foreign Policy in Perspective. Edited by Edward H. Buehrig. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1957. Pp. 176. $4.50.)
            This slight but perceptive volume records the contributions of five distinguished scholars to the
                    gigantic exercise in historical hindsight characterizing Woodrow Wilson's centennial year.
                    Maintaining a high individual level, the essays as a whole display an analytical rather than a
                    sharply revisionist tone; all recognize Wilsonian shortcomings; none denies his contributions both
                    to his own and to a later day. Each reader will find one or another most rewarding; this one learned
                    most from the first and second.
            Charles Seymour, reviewing "The Role of Colonel House in Wilson's
                    Diplomacy," concludes that a fuller exploration of more completely available evidence will
                    show the Texan's interest and influence shifting from the domestic to the foreign scene and
                    exerting a selective rather than an all-pervasive impact, which counted for most in connection with
                    Western Europe, neutrality, war aims, inter-Allied relations, and peace plans. He sees House as no
                        dews ex machina, but as an expert in operations, a catalyst whose function was
                    less in originating policy than in harmonizing the diverse elements necessary to its effectuation.
            The editor's essay on "Woodrow Wilson and Collective Security" describes a
                    president entering the White House relatively innocent of knowledge or concern for international
                    politics and turned toward collective security through a League of Nations largely by the exigencies
                    of Anglo-American relations during a maritime war. He finds much of Wilson's speech of May
                    27, 1916, before the League to Enforce Peace originating in ideas which Sir Edward Grey had conveyed
                    to House during several preceding months. Paralleling this was the concept of a Pan-American Pact
                    guaranteeing inter-Amerim security by mutualizing the Monroe Doctrine as a defense against external
                    aggression. This, generalized into Article X of the League Covenant, became at once a chief focus of
                    Wilson's league and a principal target of its opponents.
            Harold M. Vinacke, in dealing with "Woodrow Wilson's Far Eastern Policy,"
                    describes his substitution of independent action for the Taft-
                        Knox
                     scheme of pushing American capital into China through the agency of only half-willing
                    bankers, and his ultimate reversion to the consortium idea. He concludes that the non-intervention
                    doctrine, developed in response to Japan's strictures on China in the Twenty-one Demands,
                    was all that could be done under existing circumstances. Noting the diametrically opposed objectives
                    of Robert Lansing and Viscount Kikujiro Ishii, he gives Ishii credit for outsmarting Lansing in the
                    use of terms, creating a situation contributing to later Sino-American suspicion and
                    Japanese-American antagonism.
            Samuel Flagg Bemis, in "Woodrow Wilson and Latin America," emphasizes the
                    inelastically Calvinistic character of presidential devotion to principles of democratic
                    self-government. Inevitable tensions  resulted from ranging this
                    rigid yardstick alongside a Latin America still fumbling for democracy through recurring cycles of
                    dictatorship and revolution. Wilson's vision, via the proposed Pan-American Pact, of a day
                    when inter-American organization would guarantee inter-American security, made slight impression on
                    contemporaries; circumstances forcing him to become "the greatest interventionist in the
                    history of the 
                        United States
                    " bulked larger in his own day and fanned the fires of Yankeephobia; only in a
                    later generation did his ideal of inter-American comity bear fruit.
            In a final essay Sir Llewellyn Woodward presents "A British View of Mr. Wilson's
                    Foreign Policy." Noting the paucity of British studies of Wilson himself, he outlines J. M.
                    Keynes' "harsh, cocksure, and arrogant" analysis of Wilson as a slow and
                    rather witless Presbyterian contending with his intellectual superiors, Sir Harold
                    Nicolson's more reasoned conclusion that Wilson failed because of his over-confidence in
                    the capacity of democracy to make right judgments in the short run, and R. B. McCallum's
                    redressing of the Keynesian imbalance. Attempting to reflect the current consensus, he suggests that
                    whereas Wilson saw the war born of a system of "secret alliances" rooted in a dark
                    and devious past, today's British historians would find it springing rather from lack of a
                    system which might have staved off disaster; he comments on Wilson's assumption of an
                    American level of political virtue superior to that of Europeans, his sense of mission, and his
                    consciousness of power, too often expressed in language grating upon European ears, but concludes by
                    accepting present-day efforts at international organization as a revival and vindication of
                    Wilsonian ideas.
            How soon, one wonders, will some director of doctoral essays set an aspiring candidate to an analysis
                    of the Wilsonian analyses of 1956?
            L. Ethan Ellis, Rutgers University
            
         
         
            
               The Jacksonian Persuasion: Politics and Belief. By Marvin Meyers.
                            (
                  Stanford: Stanford
                University Press, 1957. Pp. vi, 231. Appendices,
                    bibliography, index. $5.00.)
            The author's purpose in this book is to find the major plot in Jacksonian political appeals,
                    with the hope that details will thereby gain further meaning and order. In identifying the
                    Jacksonian movement and distinguishing it from its opponents, he recognizes that notions of economic
                    and social class constituency and alignment, interests and programs, are inadequate or groundless in
                    fact. He rejects also the views that political democracy was a significant issue, and that
                    consequential political change was any part of the movement: such change, he writes, raised no
                    substantial public issues between the Jacksonians and their rivals.
            Meyers uses another approach: he seeks to understand the Jacksonians on the basis of what some of
                    their spokesmen said they were. He concludes that Jacksonian Democracy was an "effort to
                    recall agrarian republican innocence to 8 society drawn fatally to the main  chance … to the revolutionizing ways of acquisition
                    … a struggle to reconcile the simple yeoman values with the free pursuit of economic
                    interest, just as the two were splitting hopelessly apart" (p. 10). Its inner unity and
                    distinctiveness, the "persuasion," combined divergent sets of attitudes, one an
                    impassioned anti-capitalistic mass movement, the other consisting of attitudes that accelerated the
                    rise of capitalism. Both elements were real, and the tension between them gave the
                    "persuasion" its function and style. This theme is elaborated in a series of
                    detailed essays on the writings of a group of selected "Jacksonians," 
                        Jackson
                     himself, Martin Van Buren, James Fenimore Cooper, Theodore Sedgwick, William Leggett,
                    Robert Rantoul, Jr. Essentially it is an examination of the period 1820-1846 as it was interpreted
                    in moral and emotional terms by contemporary 
                        New York
                     Democrats.
            Looking at the world through Jacksonian emotions the author sees a coherent set of attitudes,
                    beliefs, and projected actions. Among the Whigs he sees usually only a coalition of opponents. But
                    he credits the opposition with some unity, too, in pressing for endless progress under democratic
                    capitalism while the Jacksonians, "trapped by history," feared change and dreamed
                    of the past. Did such unities of attitude exist, and if so, were they significant? Meyers believes
                    that while the Jacksonian persuasion has been perennially powerful, with passing years it grows
                    small and remote; the capitalistic future lay with the Whigs.
            Taking a broader view Meyers might have found, some would feel, that "persuasions"
                    of varying significance were held by men in both groups who were interested in such matters.
                    Considering past action as well as past eloquence he might have found a larger theme in the problem
                    responsible American statesmen faced, the creation of a political system adequate for the needs of a
                    growing nation. With more limited methods and aims he pictures a Jacksonian world so radically at
                    variance with currently popular expositions that it should command wide attention.
            Harry R. Stevens, 
                  
                            Ohio
                         University
            
         
         
            
               Slavery in 
                            Tennessee
                        . By Chase C. Mooney. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1957. Pp. xii, 250. $4.50.)
            Here is another of those studies in ante-bellum Southern history done under the inspiration and
                    guidance of the late Professor Frank L. Owsley. Like the others, notably the works by Weaver, 
                        Clark
                    , and Owsley himself, it relies heavily on statistical data gathered from federal census
                    reports and county records. But while the other studies have been concerned primarily with plain
                    folk and yeomen, this one places emphasis on the slaveholding class and the place of the institution
                    of slavery in ante-bellum 
                        Tennessee
                    . Its conclusions, however, are not substantially different from those reached in the
                    earlier works, namely, that the really important element in the population is the plain folk, the
                    small farmer.
            Drawing on data yielded from an intensive study of fifteen well-placed counties in West, Middle, and
                    East 
                        Tennessee
                    , Professor Mooney  makes several conclusions of
                    varying significance. Among them are the following: landownership was rather widespread; the vast
                    majority of slaveholders were small operators; the slaveholders did not drive the nonslaveholders
                    from the good lands; and in 1860 slaveowners were producing less cotton and more corn than in 1850.
            The ground of Professor Mooney is less sure and his conclusions are open to more serious question
                    when he moves from the census reports and enters the realm of the humane and personal aspects of the
                    institution of slavery. With little difficulty he moves from the role of scientific investigator to
                    that of apologist. Consequently he needs no data on which to base the assertion that Southern slaves
                    were far more secure than many of the free laborers of the North. This invidious comparison was made
                    after arbitrarily excluding the issue of freedom as a consideration! From that point Professor
                    Mooney glided rather easily into typical, unfounded Phillipsian assertions about slaves and slavery,
                    such as "The Negro was quite sociable by nature" (p. 90), "By no means
                    … was it a general rule that the 
                        Tennessee
                     slave was denied the rudiments of education" (p. 95), and "If no
                    higher motive was present, self-interest was a sufficient incentive to most masters to treat their
                    slaves kindly" (p. 98).
            There is a chapter on "Some 
                        Tennessee
                     Planters" that seeks to give some idea of the fortunes and problems of
                    individual planters in a state that yields few records of this kind. They are avowedly exceptional
                    by any standards since they were large slaveholders and since Professor Mooney argues with success
                    that there were few large planters in the state. At any rate they add to our general knowledge of
                    slavery in the ante-bellum South. One would have been pleased to see a more extensive discussion of
                    the economics of the institution of slavery and the role of slavery in the political life of the
                    state. Without these the picture of slavery portrayed here is tentative and incomplete.
            John Hope 
                        Franklin
                    , 
                  
                            Brooklyn
                         College
            
         
         
            
               Grunt and Lee. Second edition. By Major-General J. F. C. Fuller. Civil War
                    Centennial Series. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1957. Pp. 323. Maps, appendix, index. $5.00.)
            Having lost the war after four years of stubborn and exhausting resistance, the South set about
                    making it into a legend, an epic of rugged gray heroes and fiery ladies who could still be lovely in
                    the moonlight and magnolias. For this romance, it had a ready hero in the knightly Robert E. Lee, a
                    truly admirable military leader whose greatness grew with the telling of it. His bearing in defeat
                    was so noble that even historians of the North accepted the estimate of Lee as the outstanding
                    soldier of the war.
            A turn of the tide was inevitable and it became the fashion to disparage Lee's performance,
                    particularly on the part of those writers who discovered the genius of 
                        Grant
                    , the general who, after all, was the victor. The British General Fuller was among the
                    early ones who seem to feel, curiously enough, that 
                        Grant
                    's reputation could be enhanced by showing that the man he had beaten was
                    really not so very much.
            
            To this task General Fuller brings his own analysis of the elements of military leadership, both
                    personal and professional. He essays a comparison of the personalities of 
                        Grant
                     and Lee and of their generalship. He finds 
                        Grant
                     an enigma, inscrutably simple, a silent man whose strangeness is evidence that he was a
                    deep one who belonged to the age of Titans. Lee, on the contrary, was the chivalrous, pious man
                    whose very nobility of mind was his undoing, and rendered him no match for 
                        Grant
                    . Lee is charged with having a parochial mind and so preoccupying himself with 
                        Virginia
                     alone; with too great submissive-ness to civilian control so as to fail largely as a
                    quartermaster. Fuller suggests Lee should have remedied this last by seizing the government as a
                    dictator, and winning the war by surrendering what he was fighting for (States Rights, etc.).
                    Further, Fuller finds Lee's strategy under a false spell cast by the Federal capitol.
                    History does record Lee's strategic use of the politicians' panicky fears for the
                    safety of 
                        Washington
                    , and of 
                        Grant
                    's campaign for the capture of the Confederate capitol.
            Strangest of all, Fuller attempts to charge Lee with reckless loss of his men in defense of 
                        Grant
                     against just such a charge. This he does by presenting a table of battle losses
                    calculated on the basis of the percentages the losses were of the strength of the total army. This
                    table is favorable to 
                        Grant
                    . But a better index of a general's handling of his troops is to be derived
                    from the ratio of the enemy's losses to his own effective strength, while the ratio of his
                    own losses to the total effective strength of the enemy is the best measure of his conserving the
                    lives of his men. Such figures are heavily in Lee's favor.
            Comparisons of generals, even those who contend against each other, are seldom conclusive. A most
                    interesting speculation for another General Fuller might be found in an imaginative exchange,
                    whereby Lee would be given 
                        Grant
                    's army with all its greater strength and resources, and 
                        Grant
                     given the army of Lee with its lack of reserves, equipment and supplies, and then to
                    try to forecast what each might have accomplished. In this way the factor of generalship might be
                    isolated. But, of course, such speculation is idle.
            In spite of what is written above, this book belongs on the shelf of anyone who finds the Civil War
                    interesting and who studies leadership as it may be found anywhere. Such a reader will not be
                    bothered by a few slight errors, and for example will recognize General "C." E.
                    Pickett as 
                        Virginia
                    's George Pickett. The Indiana University Press, which has reprinted the work
                    (first published in 1932) as part of its "Civil War Centennial Series," has been
                    of good service to today's Civil War enthusiast.
            Robert B. Browne, University of 
                            Illinois
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Mirage in the West: A History of the French Image of American Society to 1815.
                    By Durand Echeverria. (
                  Princeton: Princeton
                University Press, 1957. Pp. vii, 300.
                    Bibliographical note, index. $5.00.)
            Durand Echeverria has attempted in this exceedingly interesting volume to trace the historical
                    origins of the principal French conceptions and misconceptions of America from 1767 to 1816, for, as
                    Gilbert  Chinard points out in the Foreword, this country has
                    remained a terra incognita to the French in spite of a natural sympathy which has
                    bound them to Americans. Thus the title Mirage in the West was chosen with intent
                    and conviction.
            In the 1760's there appeared to be a distinct cleavage in French opinion of America between
                    those who regarded the Americans as Europeans who had been strengthened and liberated by the New
                    World and those who considered them as people who had degenerated in the forbidding and unhealthful
                    climate of America. The influence of the latter thinkers, including such prominent persons as
                    Cornelius DePauw, the Abbé Raynal, and the famous naturalist, the Comte de Buffon, was
                    somewhat mitigated by the attacks of Dom Pernetty on the doctrine of degeneration and later on by
                    the writings of Benjamin Furly, Voltaire, and Montesquieu who tended to "idealize the
                    Americans as exponents of religious, economic, and political liberty." In addition, as
                    French and American citizens began to have frequent contact and communication with each other,
                    highlighted by the enthusiastic reception given to 
                        Franklin
                     in 
                        France
                     in 1776, French admiration for Americans generally increased. From then until about
                    1795 this mirage characterized the New World as the epitome of the ideals of the Philosophes, the Progressionists, the Rousseauists, and the Physiocrats in spite of some
                    criticism registered by French travelers and emigrants who had spent some time in America.
            After the calling of the Estates General in 1789 and the announcement of the terms of the Jay Treaty
                    a few years later, however, a reversal of this happy picture of America took place, and, as Mr.
                    Echeverria says, the American dream disintegrated. This development was in part attributable to the
                    unhappy experiences of some French émigrés, many of whom could only view
                    experiments in democracy with distaste, to disappointment over the Jay Treaty, and to the fact that
                    to Frenchmen, disillusioned with the anarchy and violence of their own revolution, the American
                    dream was superfluous and irrelevant. They had begun to feel that the glories of the American
                    experiment either had been misrepresented or that it was simply a case of what was one
                    man's meat was another man's poison.
            Finally, during the consulate and empire, though there was some distrust of the Americans by French
                    diplomats and considerable difference of opinion on the part of French visitors to America, Napoleon
                    attempted to resurrect the American dream of earlier years for his own purposes. Curiously enough
                    his efforts were seconded by his enemies who looked to America as the hope of democracy.
            Mr. Echeverria has done a fine piece of work in clarifying and explaining the shifts of French
                    opinion toward America in this early period, and his individual points are well documented in the
                    footnotes. One wonders at times whether he has taken into sufficient account the great divergence of
                    opinion on America in most periods, though it is possible that opinion in 
                        France
                     proper was more unified than the attitude of French travelers would suggest. The author
                    has perhaps neglected the differences of opinion exhibited by the French when they considered the
                    Atlantic seaboard area as contrasted to the frontier, or the North as contrasted to the South. In
                    speaking of the Marquis  of Chastellux he concluded, for example,
                    that Chastellux "arrived in the New World, consequently, with the most favorable
                    prejudices, and he left with his opinion undiminished" (p. 110), a statement which hardly
                    gives one a hint of the caustic criticisms which that particular traveler showered upon a variety of
                    persons and conditions in America.
            There are few serious typographical errors, and the book is attractive in format and print. The
                    bibliography is inadequate and disappointing although perhaps the lay reader would regard a list of
                    the original source materials as superfluous. In spite of these objections, the book is eminently
                    worth reading, clearly written, and altogether fascinating.
            Mary Steele Owen, 
                  
                            Franklin
                         College
            
         
         
            
               Half Horse Half Alligator: The Growth of the Mike Fink Legend. Edited by Walter
                    Blair and Franklin J. Meine. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1956. Pp. ix, 289. Frontispiece, illustrations, bibliography. $5.00.)
            The editors published a biography of Mike Fink in 1933. In this earlier volume they produced a lively
                    word portrait of one of backwoods America's most fabulous characters. Up until that time it
                    was difficult to tell for sure whether Mike Fink was man or legend. Associated with him was the
                    half-horse, half-alligator personality which whooped and sweated its way up and down the western
                    rivers. Mike in fact epitomized a great mass of humanity which beat and poled its way into the pages
                    of history with fist, hard head, loud bragging, close spitting, and keen-eyed marksmanship.
            The Mike Fink legend was not a part of a single frontier, but of several. He was active in the upper 
                        Ohio
                     in the years of the great international struggle for colonial possession of this
                    continent, he helped open the great Ohio Valley to traffic, and then he
                    followed the 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Missouri
                     upstream to the Rocky Mountain Indian and fur empires.
            Scarcely a moment of Mike's life could be considered a quiet one; even as a hunter the woods
                    offered him a threat to both life and happiness. The editors have searched diligently through the
                    contemporary literature to find the literary traces of this man who was as unliterary as a rotten
                    cottonwood stump.
            Mike Fink became a central character in early American writing. A list of the sources used in this
                    book indicates how widespread the literature of this frontiersman became. Almost as fascinating as
                    the literature itself is the fact that so many really capable chroniclers of the frontier scene
                    found in Mike Fink a symbol of the arduous task of subduing wild country for the safety of women,
                    children, preachers, and schoolhouses. The editors have woven their selections into a cohesive
                    pattern of evolution. It is fortunate that two scholars 60 well grounded in this area of American
                    literature have undertaken this meticulous task. They have traced the creation of an American figure
                    who gave a touch of personal color to the whole process of breaking ground for a national
                    civilization.
            Thomas D. Clark, University of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            
               History of the Little Church on the Circle, Christ Church Parish, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1837-1955. By Eli Lilly. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Rector, Wardens and Vestrymen of Christ Protestant Episcopal Church of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1957. Pp. xii, 376. Frontispiece, appendix, index, illustrations.)
            This excellent history of an unusual organization, Christ Church, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , has been written by a devout member. For the earlier years of the church's
                    history, he has investigated the records of the church, its organizations, and its leaders. For the
                    recent period, he brings to the work his own recollections of many years of experience as a leader
                    in the organization. He understands its spiritual life as well as the problems of leadership,
                    finances, and growth. Two features tend to distinguish the recent years. Christ Church is a downtown
                    church which has refused to sell its site for a high price or to surrender to the hardship caused by
                    the greater distances which its members must come in order to attend its services. Christ Church is
                    also an endowed church. An endowment of a million dollars has been placed in the hands of the Bishop
                    and governing body of the Diocesan Corporation in order that Christ Church can remain on Monument
                    Circle in a state of good repair and that services can be rendered in perpetuity. To encourage the
                    members to support their church and not depend upon the endowment, the unexpended balances from the
                    income of the endowment may be used for other religious, educational, or charitable purposes.
            A beautifully written opening chapter sketches very briefly the history of Christianity from the
                    beginning to the founding of the Episcopal church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Christ Church was founded in the capital city in 1837 and its own building was in use
                    by the next year. The history of the early period was often involved in minor matters, such as the
                    disturbance of congregational harmony by the marriage of a lady organist to a mulatto. The author
                    has filled in the background of the religious story by inserting in the narrative from time to time
                    incidents and brief statements of important events in secular history. At times these additions are
                    very effective but on other occasions the relationship is not so clear.
            Early in the Civil War the rector resigned because he was thought to be too sympathetic with the
                    Confederacy. Nevertheless, the new church which had been erected in 1857 was paid for and
                    consecrated on November 20, 1862. The peace of the church was further disturbed, however, when
                    Joseph J. Bingham, son-in-law of Bishop George B. Upfold and editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, was arrested with other prominent alleged members of the Sons of
                    Liberty. Christ Church, however, came through the war years quite successfully, although differing
                    attitudes in respect to the war may have played some part in the formation of a new Episcopal church
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Since the Civil War, Christ Church has not only refused to leave the Circle, but has grown to be a
                    large church, particularly when measured by its services. Excavation has even increased the physical
                    size of the church building. Its title of the "Little Church on the Circle" should
                    not hide the reality of its spiritual leadership of a large number  of communicants among whom are many important leaders of the capital city. The author's
                    modesty in respect to his leadership in the church leaves this part of his history somewhat
                    incomplete.
            The illustrations are items of special interest. The frontispiece is a beautiful picture in color of
                    the interior of Christ Church in 1953. Among excellent photographs of rectors, prominent members,
                    and views of the church are five reproductions of graceful etchings by Frederick Polley, and two
                    drawings by Christian Schrader. Among the more interesting illustrations are those of the Circle in
                    1873, the Old State House, and east and west Market streets. The author is to be congratulated upon
                    having produced so fine a history.
            John D. Barnhart, Indium University
            
         
         
            
               Those Innocent Years: The Legacy and Inheritance of a Hero of the Victorian Era,
                        James Whitcomb Riley. By Richard Crowder. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Bobbs-Merrill Company, 1957. Pp. 288. Frontispiece, index. $4.50.)
            There is no denying that James Whitcomb Riley remains, more than four decades after his death, a
                    figure to conjure with. In the Hoosier heartland he is still a force, as Mr. Crowder makes clear in
                    his prologue. There is a stop named for him on the Indiana Turnpike; there is a 
                        New York
                     Central train named for him; there are Riley rooms in hotels and department stores in
                    Indiana. Local poets still make their annual pilgrimage to his grave in Crown
                    Hill Cemetery on crisp October afternoons at the time of his birthday.
            Yet Riley is a poet whose works are taught in no college survey course in American literature. In
                    grade schools where literary standards are lower children still read and recite his homespun verses,
                    but for persons seriously concerned with literature he is a fossil in the quarries of
                    nineteenth-century American taste. The problem that Mr. Crowder faced in writing this book was how
                    to reconcile Riley the symbol with Riley the writer. As an academician himself, the biographer had
                    to limn the Hoosier Hero without really thinking him a hero.
            Mr. Crowder meets his problem squarely. He is concerned in Those Innocent Years
                    with picturing the idolized Riley against his Victorian backdrop. In essence, Riley's
                    popularity, which even disarmed such perceptive critics as William Dean Howells, sprang from his
                    native talent as an actor and his exploitation of Indiana people and places at a time when local
                    color was a popular literary staple. Moreover, when Riley conquered the eastern fleshpots, Hoosier
                    egos expanded vicariously. Riley reflected accurately the image of nineteenth-century, midwestern
                    America that his public held of itself. He gave his readers what they wanted—easy
                    optimism and cracker-barrel wisdom. He consciously and unconsciously averted his gaze from the
                    problems of man's relationship to man or man's relationship to God, the context
                    out of which enduring classics always have been written.
            
            Mr. Crowder has written a brief, pleasant account of the Hoosier poet, holding up the mirror to
                    Riley's life and times and getting an accurate image of the People's Poet; a
                    complete study will have to wait until Riley's friends and relatives have passed from the
                    scene. Crowder suggests the proper avenues for a deeper probing of Riley's personality. He
                    deals gingerly with Riley's youthful lack of discipline, his antagonistic relationship with
                    his father, his compulsive drinking, and psychosomatic ailments. These are matters that one would
                    like to know more about. However, Mr. Crowder has written, as he intended, a narrative account of
                    Riley and his times that will absorb Hoosiers who care for their state's past.
            James Woodress, 
                  
                            Butler
                         University
            
         
         
            
               Here Is Your Indiana Government. Eighth edition (revised). (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana State Chamber of Commerce, 1957. Pp. vi, 116. Paperbound, $1.00.)
            The eighth edition of Here Is Your Indiana Government as published by the Indiana
                    State Chamber of Commerce is again a good detailed presentation of facts about government in
                    Indiana. Its stated purpose is to "encourage citizenship participation in public
                    affairs."
            Any collection of facts must of necessity have difficulty in holding the reader's interest.
                    The arrangement of Here Is Your Indiana Government does much "sugar
                    coating," thus tending to make palatable this tremendous quantity of detail.
            The complexity of government is simplified as much as can be done while accurately indicating that
                    Indiana's population growth and time have added many responsibilities to government,
                    especially at the state level.
            
               Here Is Your Indiana Government is a good source book for information regarding
                    city, township, county, and state government. It also furnishes facts on the organization of
                    Indiana's political parties as well as "Historical Highlights of
                    Indiana's Governmental Development." One section is entitled "Hoosiers at
                    Work."
            The State Chamber was unable to resist the temptation to editorialize, and in the last four editions
                    they have included an article by Clarence E. Manion, former dean of the University of Notre Dame
                    College of Law, giving his interpretation of the basic principles of our American form of
                    government. Some confusion could result from this should one take too literally the subhead,
                    "A Book of Facts."
            Indiana's very outstanding State Chamber of Commerce has prepared an excellent tool to
                    present fairly Indiana's government in a brief, factual manner to either school children or
                    adults who are making their initial contact with this knowledge or who need refreshing as to
                    governmental detail.
            Donald H. Clark, Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            
               History of Medical Education in Indiana. By Burton D. Myers. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1956. Pp. 203. Illustrations. $5.00.)
            This book is a scholarly contribution to Indiana historical research, to the subject of medical
                    education, and to the history of medicine in America.
            Prior to 1817 there was not a medical college west of the Allegheny Mountains.
                    The students of that day selected for their teachers the best physicians in the 
                        United States
                     and carried out private dissections and apprenticeship under their preceptorship. Many
                    of the most successful practitioners had never seen a medical college. Less than 10 per cent of the
                    physicians of Indiana were graduates of medicine in 1825, and less than 25 to 30 per cent had ever
                    attended one course of lectures. This situation existed during the first forty years of the
                    nineteenth century in Indiana. Dr. Myers' book tells the story of the organization and
                    development of medical education in Indiana from its beginning with the preceptorial system, through
                    the period 1806-1906 when some twenty-four medical colleges were chartered in Indiana to the final
                    union of all schools with the Indiana University School of Medicine in April, 1908.
            This book is a complete and thoroughly documented account written by Dr. Burton D. Myers, who came to
                    Indiana University from Johns Hopkins in 1903 to become professor and head of the department of
                    anatomy. The material was gathered over a period of thirty-five years by this distinguished member
                    of the medical school faculty. Dr. Myers' book was written after his retirement in 1940 and
                    was completed in 1949. His death in 1951 prevented him from seeing the book through the press and no
                    effort has been made to carry the historical record beyond 1949.
            Two passages should be quoted to illustrate the giant span in medical education covered in this book.
                    From Part One: "The difficulty which brought an untimely end to many early medical colleges
                    whose auspicious beginnings had been hailed with elation was the fact that these early doctors, like
                    doctors of today, were individualists; they had had no experience with or training in the team play,
                    the collaboration necessary for the successful maintenance of a medical college. And when
                    dissensions began to develop and discord appeared in the faculty, the college soon ceased to
                    function and expired, or the faculty divided and formed two schools" (p. 1). However, even
                    these early schools advanced medical education in Indiana, for they were responsible for promotion
                    of legislation providing for licensure and for the establishment of a State Board of Medical
                    Registration and Examination as well as the enactment of the very important State Anatomical Law.
                    From Part Two: "At no time was there the thought that the Indiana University School of
                    Medicine should develop chiefly as a research institute. But at no time was the hope lost that the
                    day would come when the staff and physical facilities would be such as to provide time and
                    encouragement for investigative work … this last paragraph … is written,
                    therefore, with the happy conviction that the time long hoped for is at hand when research, which
                    has  been conducted under difficulties and inadequate support, is
                    to be made a major objective of the Indiana University School of Medicine" (pp. 202-203).
            The chapters are divided into Part One consisting of sixteen chapters covering early medical
                    education in the state from the Indiana Territory days of 1806 through all the minor medical
                    colleges (including two fraudulent schools—the Bennett Medical College, 
                        New Albany
                    , 1833, and the Indiana College of Medicine and Midwifery, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1878). Part Two consists of twelve chapters and a section of addenda covering the
                    organization and growth of the present Indiana University School of Medicine on both the 
                        Bloomington
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     campuses. The text is free from any major technical errors except for one noted on page
                    6 where Dr. Ephraim McDowell, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , is referred to as the man who performed "the first laparotomy" in
                    America. Certainly this should read the first ovariotomy. The Indiana University
                    Press is to be congratulated on the quality of the book from every aspect of the book
                    publisher's art.
            William McWhorter Loehr, Indiana University School of Medicine
            
         
         
            
               The Liberal Arts College. By George P. Schmidt. (
                        New Brunswick
                    , N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1957. Pp. 264. Notes, index. $6.00).
            In these days of soul-searching on the part of higher education this book is a timely contribution
                    indeed. The author is chairman of the history department of Douglass College (Rutgers University).
                    The present volume is obviously a sequel to his doctoral dissertation published under the title The Old Time College President (
                        Columbia
                     University Press). It is good for a change to have a history of the liberal arts
                    college by a professional historian, by someone equipped to evaluate American higher education
                    within the total structure of American history. Whatever his limitations in the eyes of
                    educationists-this reviewer is not aware of any—Professor Schmidt has done an excellent
                    piece of work which will have to be consulted by educators and historians alike, as well as by
                    others who wish to be informed about the development of higher education in the 
                        United States
                    .
            Lest any be inclined to find fault with the scope or depth of this study, the author serves notice in
                    advance that "it cannot be considered a general history of higher education. Many aspects
                    of the larger subject are treated lightly or not at all" (p. viii). Nor can it be
                    considered a history of the liberal arts college in America; its compass is too modest for that. In
                    view of the fact that there are about a thousand institutions of higher learning offering
                    instruction in the liberal arts, it ought not to be difficult to overlook the omission of
                    one's own alma mater in a study of this kind.
            The liberal arts college is portrayed in its "casual beginning" and
                    "haphazard growth" as a typical product of the frontier, as completely American as
                    the log cabin or the camp meeting. Although patterned after English schools, notably 
                        Cambridge
                     and 
                        Oxford
                    , the  "colleges in the wilderness"
                    adopted from their prototypes only as much as they could use and adapted it to the peculiar and
                    rapidly changing conditions of life in the New World. As in other areas of life, there was little or
                    no central control or planning, and as a rule the founders of colleges had more faith than cash.
                    "Education was like business … a strange mixture of courageous idealism and
                    competitive recklessness" (p. 11). No wonder the mortality was so high among them. Of 174
                    institutions founded after 1790 in 
                  Ohio, Georgia
               , and 
                        Missouri
                    , 142 were out of business by 1860. That so many of them did survive bears witness to
                    the zeal for knowledge and the love of freedom which characterized the creators of American culture.
            What used to be common knowledge among informed persons but what has been lost sight of increasingly
                    since the advent of this scientific and technological age is that two of the principal ingredients
                    of our culture are the Judaeo-Christian and the Greco-Roman tradition. Professor Schmidt is fully
                    aware of this fact and peculiarly equipped to comprehend and interpret it. Among the best of the
                    twelve chapters in the book are the second, which portrays the liberal arts college as the
                    "child of religion," and the third, which depicts it as a product of classical
                    civilization. It seems to this reviewer, however, that the author does less than complete justice to
                    either of these traditions. He appears to take a kind of impish delight in singling out the
                    eccentricities of their representatives and to leave the impression that as a rule liberal arts
                    students were victims of miseducation, that in fact higher education until recently was quite a
                    joke. But for this, if it is a valid comment, he may be forgiven, for these chapters provide some
                    hilarious reading. Besides, there was more than enough in the way each of these two traditions was
                    distorted to make some of their representatives appear ludicrous. But the fact remains that without
                    the motivation and content supplied by Christianity and classical culture, there probably would have
                    been no liberal arts colleges to write about, and perhaps no other colleges either.
            This is easily one of the best of the many recent treatments of the liberal arts, in or out of
                    college, and Professor Schmidt seems to have enjoyed himself immensely in the writing of it, a
                    scholarly and readable contribution toward a better understanding of our cultural heritage.
            Walter E. Bauer, 
                  
                            Valparaiso
                         University
            
         
         
            
               The Boundaries of the Campus: A History of the University of 
                            Wisconsin
                         Extension Division, 1885-1945. By Frederick M. Rosentreter. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1957. Pp. vii, 210. Notes, index. $3.50.)
            While university extension has developed to significant proportions since the late nineteenth
                    century, the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     has been a pioneer in the movement. Starting in the late 1880's with
                    institutes for farmers and teachers, 
                        Wisconsin
                     soon added popular lectures, chautauqua-like offerings at Monona
                    Lake, and correspondence study to her extension program. Outstanding members of the
                    faculty, including the historians Reuben Gold Thwaites and Frederick Jackson Turner,  early gave extension lectures. Turner was instrumental in securing
                    Richard T. Ely, the economist, to head 
                        Wisconsin
                    's incipient program in the early 1890's.
            At first there was much emphasis on the diffusion of knowledge to encourage enlightened citizenship.
                    Turner thought this especially desirable because of the varied national and cultural elements within 
                        Wisconsin
                    . But extension was also expected to augment the "prestige" of the
                    university, encourage "campus" enrollments, and increase university
                    appropriations.
            During the 1890's, however, 
                        Wisconsin
                    's extension floundered. Explanations varied: too little attention had been
                    given to what people wanted or ("needed"; the administrative machinery and methods
                    had been ineffective; the program had been sapped by misunderstandings with local sponsors and
                    rivals; small scale, but thorny, financial questions had developed; the faculty had given inadequate
                    co-operation; and unstable administrative attitudes were considered a key factor by some. Critics,
                    on and off the campus, recommended that the extension baby be allowed to die because it depleted
                    time and resources from the important work of the university.
            For about a decade extension slumbered in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Meanwhile, Americans took several giant steps in world politics and imperialism and
                    reached a new high in economic prosperity and big business. Soon, thanks to the Progressive
                    movement, "Fighting Bob" LaFollette was governor of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and "Teddy" Roosevelt was president of the 
                        United States
                    . Reform was in the air and enlightened citizenship seemed urgent. Governor LaFollette,
                    himself a product of the University, wanted extension to play an important role in public affairs.
                    President Charles R. Van Hise, though formerly hostile, now also supported it. Although various
                    factors were at work in the form of extension, the Progressive movement certainly hastened its
                    development.
            
               
                        Wisconsin
                     formally organized an Extension Division in 1907. The diffusion of general knowledge,
                    though much neglected, was not forgotten, but until about World War II offerings were mainly
                    vocational and practical. They were also chiefly non-credit and sub-university level, but university
                    credit courses slowly gained in number. The offerings were very elastic. For instance, though some
                    programs exhorted citizens to be wary of the evils of propaganda, during World War I the Extension
                    Division itself peddled government propaganda, most of which was inaccurate.
            Since approximately World War II 
                        Wisconsin
                     has strengthened extension's connections within the university, enlarged its
                    credit programs, increased its liberal and cultural offerings, and developed resident extension
                    faculties. Its previous offerings have generally continued, but usually in a new context.
            Much in this volume indicates that 
                        Wisconsin
                    's extension grew like Topsy. The author, a former member of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's extension staff in history, seems to share this conclusion. Professor
                    Rosentreter, however, has seen more of the treetops and weak branches of the extension wilderness
                    than he has of its roots and seedbed.
            The democratic concepts which produced university extension are doubtless much the same as those
                    which have multiplied college and university  enrollments,
                    spawned professional schools, proliferated courses, fostered countless offerings in adult education,
                    and the like. Furthermore, Professor Rosentreter lacks perspective in centering too much on personal
                    differences and feuds and too little upon the issues involved.
            The weaknesses of university extension have perhaps been greater than indicated by this study.
                    Nevertheless, university extension needs to be understood in terms of broad perspectives as well as
                    in terms of ragged treetops and passing personal conflicts. Fortunately the movement has exhibited
                    evidences of growing strength and increasing maturity in recent years, but whether in the long run
                    university extension represents promise or peril to American universities remains a moot question.
                    It is reasonably certain, however, that, though a university may have educational stature without an
                    extension division, an extension division cannot have educational stature unless it is principally
                    an extension of certain portions of an effective and significant university.
            Donald F. Carmony, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               A Guide to Early American Homes: South. By Dorothy and Richard Pratt. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1956. Pp. viii, 227. Numerous illustrations, index.
                    $3.75.)
            
               A Guide to Early American Homes: North. By Dorothy and Richard Pratt. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1956. Pp. viii, 251. Numerous illustrations, index.
                    $3.75.)
            These two books together constitute a remarkably detailed and useful guide to the early American
                    homes east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Listed here for the first time are "virtually every open house of any
                    merit" in the region, and "for the first time hundreds of private homes whose
                    owners, through the Guide, have generously agreed to let their homes be visited
                    under conditions set down in each case." The authors have included some one thousand
                    Northern and some eight hundred Southern homes, homes of great magnificence and homes of simplicity
                    and charm, as well as restoration villages, and house and garden tours open to the public. Richard
                    Pratt, architectural editor of the Ladies Home Journal, and his wife, Dorothy
                    Pratt, collaborated on the Journal's "Regional Series,"
                    out of which grew the Treasury of Early American Homes and these two Guides.
            These books are flexibly organized by states and by regions within states. Brief sketches of the
                    types of homes in each state are given, and a paragraph or two is devoted to each home, pointing out
                    what the authors believe to be its most distinguishing features, whether they be architectural or
                    historical or both. Along with these thumbnail sketches the authors provide extremely practical
                    information on the conditions for viewing each home, the admission fee, the name of the owner, and
                    the location of the home. These Guides can save the traveler many hours of searching and many
                    disappointments. The numerous photographs (black and white and averaging more than one per page) are
                    exceptionally well chosen, and a quick glance through each Guide serves to illustrate the
                    architectural variations from state to state, region to region.
            
            Although not intended as an historical study of the homes of the North and the South, these books
                    will provide a guide to a lifetime of delightful viewing of the early homes from the Atlantic to the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and will undoubtedly convey to the reader the authors' own enthusiastic
                    appreciation for this aspect of the American heritage.
            Ruth C. Heffner, Indiana Magazine of History
            
         
         
            
               The Effects of the St. Lawrence Seaway on Grain Movements. By Joseph R. Hartley.
                    Indiana Business Report No. 24. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Bureau of Business Research, 1957. Pp. 252. Graphs, tables,
                    appendix, bibliography. Paperbound, $3.75; cloth, $4.75.)
            The basic physical structure of the North American continent is what it is; and each succeeding
                    generation responds to it in the light of its own special needs and its technology. At present, 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                     are co-operating to open the St. 
                        Lawrence
                     above Montreal to ships of a maximum of 25 feet in draught, 730 feet in length, and of
                    75 foot beam. Just as the nine-foot draught canals completed in 1848 gave way to the 14-foot draught
                    canals at the beginning of the present century, so the latter will be superseded in 1959 by the
                    latest in the series. At present, the approximate maximum cargo is 2,700 net tons; with the new
                    canals it will be of the order of 20-22,000 net tons.
            This book provides a nearly ideal research report upon the effect of this major change upon the grain
                    trade of the 
                        United States
                    . Its author has had the great advantage of being able to draw on the assistance of men
                    in the trade and has carefully assembled all the data available on it. The investigation of relative
                    rates to the chief ports and the diagrams showing the break-even points for movement to the Lakes as
                    against the alternative routes condense in a few figures a wealth of essential information.
            In this reviewer's opinion, the conclusions are highly optimistic. The author sees a
                    movement of 
                        United States
                     grain through the St. 
                        Lawrence
                     of about 150-200 million bushels by the mid-1960's. Even the higher of these
                    figures may be substantially exceeded if the possible diversions from the Atlantic and Gulf routes
                    are realized (see Chapter 8). This is a very substantial movement indeed and, if it is realized,
                    will be a most welcome addition to the total of traffic to be moved.
            The reason why it seems optimistic is that it is based on the availability of ocean-going ships at 
                        United States
                     lake ports which will carry through to foreign destinations without trans-shipment at
                    rates comparable with those from ocean ports. The unspoken assumption is, therefore, that there will
                    be import cargoes for delivery within the Lakes which will bear the costs of inward movement of the
                    ships. If that is so, then such a movement may be possible. If such an inward movement does not
                    develop, then export grain at the 
                        Lake
                     ports must either move in 
                        Lake
                    -type bulk freighters to Montreal and below for trans-shipment, or else pay rates which
                    will attract tramp ships into the Upper Lakes in ballast. Under that latter condition, a good part
                    of the attraction of the St. 
                        Lawrence
                     route will evaporate. And even  if the movement is
                    made in 
                        Lake
                    -type ships, it is unlikely that balancing movements of grain outbound and iron ore
                    inbound will provide a neatly balanced movement. The commercial conditions in the two trades are so
                    dissimilar as to make it unlikely that this ideal can be realized except to a minor degree.
            The new St. 
                        Lawrence
                     canals mark a complete break with the recent past. Any forecast of traffic after 1959
                    must attempt to bridge a major discontinuity. Mr. Hartley is to be congratulated on the patient
                    labor and great skill that have gone into this effort.
            John L. McDougall, Queen's University
            
         
         
            
               Dry Farming in the Northern Great Plains, 1900-1925. By Mary Wilma M.
                    Hargreaves. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1957. Pp. xii, 587. Maps, tables, footnotes, index.
                    $10.00.)
            Dry farming, namely agriculture without irrigation, in semi-arid regions is familiar to many parts of
                    the world. But in this work the author has focused her study and analysis upon the region defined as
                    the Northern Great Plains—astern 
                        Montana
                    , western North Dakota, and western South Dakota. As the title indicates, the period of
                    emphasis is upon the first quarter of the present century, but a 79-page background section points
                    up earlier concepts and developments in sufficient detail to provide the reader with what is in
                    effect a full half-century coverage of the agricultural history of the area indicated.
            Part One, the pre-1900 material, is pertinent to an intelligent understanding of the dry-farming
                    operations which reached a state of full development after the turn of the present century within
                    several sections of the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West. It was the 1875-1900 era that witnessed the demise of the "Great
                    American Desert" concept (of late resuscitated by Professor Walter P. Webb), a
                    technological revolution in agricultural machinery (sine qua non for Great Plains farming), and the
                    blatant "ballyhoo" inviting native Americans and European immigrants to this
                    "last best grain garden of the world." Dry farming as a technique or method had,
                    in fact, become known, practiced, and approved in the Northern Great Plains prior to 1900.
            Part Two, comprising the central and largest portion of the book, is a detailed portrayal of the
                    dry-farming movement. In this part the author approaches her subject from every conceivable angle,
                    such as, for example, propaganda, the congresses, the experimenters, the homestead principle, and
                    the role of the railroad.
            The author makes it amply clear that the dry-farming movement was as much an educational experience
                    (better still, a propaganda war) as it was a method for salvaging to best advantage the moisture
                    content of semi-arid soil. As an indication of this curious admixture of science and promotional
                    activities, the role of Hardy Webster Campbell—the leading individual experimenter in and
                    propounder of dry-farming techniques—is accorded a separate section within a chapter
                    devoted to dry-farming propaganda, In fact, one is  given the
                    distinct impression that while agricultural experimentation was neither frowned upon nor ignored,
                    the accent was placed upon propaganda. This emphasis upon "selling" a given
                    dry-farming method as a means of promoting settlement in the region, without adequate evidence as to
                    its workability, lends support in this situation to the old adage, "a little knowledge is a
                    dangerous thing." Thus, in spite of a lagging and inconclusive research program, it was
                    possible for railroad companies, realtors, bankers, merchants, manufacturers of farm machinery,
                    chambers of commerce, and national, state, and county agents to support any one of several
                    dry-farming methods which best suited the particular (usually pecuniary) interests involved.
                    Therefore, dry-farming congresses held during this period achieved considerable success, not as
                    educational conclaves, but as propaganda boosters for both the semi-arid and arid West.
            Following what turns out to be a 356-page explanation or analysis of the dry-farming movement per se,
                    the slightly wearied reader comes to the third, and last part of the book, namely dry-land
                    settlement. This is a highly important part, for it deals to a relatively limited extent with the
                    human history of the region: immigration (both foreign and American), population growths by
                    counties, and pioneer obstacles. Interspersed with such topics are rather awkwardly placed
                    discussions on irrigation versus dry farming, productive capacity, capital and credit problems, and
                    marketing factors.
            Out of this inordinate mass of statistical data, sub-regional analyses, and exhaustive sifting of
                    varied available sources, the author arrives at a useful summary and some conclusions. By the close
                    of the period promotional groups with conflicting sentiments were still marshalling their forces in
                    an effort to promote continued immigration. But up to 1925 it is apparent that those who had
                    conducted dry-farming experimentation had been ill-suited for their task. Many were inadequately
                    prepared and most of them were devoid of the requisite financial resources for necessary large-scale
                    operations. The author concludes that the "principal innovation of the twentieth century
                    was the element of publicity attached to the development already under way" (p. 541).
                    Viewed as a whole these promotional activities were successful, not only in bringing about a
                    steadily increasing settlement but a swelling production as well. The record in production is well
                    illustrated by figures on wheat yield: less than four million bushels in 1900; more than ninety
                    million in 1925.
            This book represents exhaustive research in a wide range of available source materials. It contains
                    extensive statistical data, maps and charts. It is thoroughly documented. It stands as an important
                    circumscribed study of the economic history of an important segment of the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West. One cannot say that this book makes exciting reading, but it is nevertheless
                    clearly written. This work is a much needed analysis of an agricultural movement not hitherto
                    clearly understood.
            Oscar Osburn Winther, Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            
               The Early 
                            Jackson
                         Party in 
                            Ohio
                        . By Harry R. Stevens. (Durham, N. C.: Duke University Press, 1957. Pp. xi,
                    187. Map, bibliographical note, appendices, index. $4.50.)
            Professor Stevens' volume is an essay concerning the organization of the 
                        Jackson
                     party in 
                        Ohio
                    . After an overall view of 
                        Ohio
                    's economic and political life preceding the presidential election of 1824, he
                    reviews the evolution of party organizations in 
                        Ohio
                     for that election. Although party organizations in support of various candidates are
                    discussed, emphasis is on the 
                        Jackson
                     party.
            Partisan efforts and activities were diverse as rival organizations—and the party system
                    itself—were being born in the Buckeye state. Party work was carried on through letters,
                    circulars and broadsides, books, pamphlets, meetings, speeches, correspondence and vigilance
                    committees, newspapers, and so on. Friendly newspapers and county meetings were very important in
                    the organization of parties.
            Much research apparently preceded this essay which offers a readable acccount of the beginnings of
                    the 
                        Jackson
                     party in 
                        Ohio
                    . Nevertheless, the reader is left with inadequate knowledge regarding the sources used
                    from chapter to chapter and he is often left at sea about the source of important data or
                    quotations. Moreover, though the author assembled and presumably churned much material, he is
                    ambivalent about his conclusions. Somehow the butter failed to make!
            Possibly 
                        Ohio
                     politics in the early 1820's was so personalized, so localized, so changing,
                    so formative, and so varied between state and national levels that butter was lacking for moulding
                    into neat patterns or conclusions. At any rate, ambivalence is doubtless more desirable than the
                    sweeping and grandiose generalizations about parties so often found in texts and general studies.
                    Furthermore, perhaps these generalizations are made too much from poorly or even unskimmed milk and
                    based too little on findings carefully churned from regional and state studies.
            Donald F. Carmony, Indium University
            
         
         
            
               Jay Gould: His Business Career, 1867-1892. By Julius Grodinsky. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Press, 1957. Pp. 627. Index, maps. $10.00.)
            This is a curious study of the financial practices of a leading "robber baron" who
                    has been commonly pictured as an unscrupulous manipulator of stocks responsible for looting the Erie
                    Railroad, breaking traffic agreements, and selling stock short in companies he controlled. The
                    author, who is a professor of finance at the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , frankly reveals all this and more, including Gould's chicanery, deceit, false
                    statements, juggling of accounts, callous repudiation of pledges, shameful manipulation of judges in
                    his efforts to force up or down the market quotations on stock in which he was currently
                    speculating. At the same time the author shows a quite unexpected admiration for Gould's
                    "brilliant strokes," his skill in besting opponents no matter how far he strayed
                    from the prevailing standards of business ethics of the day. Gould is pictured as the
                    "leading  railroad builder of the land," as one
                    who made stockholders happy by the rise in their securities resulting from his manipulation, but who
                    did not seemingly make them sad when, as was more commonly the case, his actions depressed the value
                    of their stock.
            Gould's association with western railroads, notably the 
                  Wabash, Missouri
                Pacific, and
                    Union Pacific, was accompanied by construction of new lines and the acquisition of feeders, but
                    though profits were made for a time and dividends paid, all were brought to receivership by spite
                    construction, constant and destructive rate cutting, payment of unearned dividends, extravagant
                    purchases of Gould-owned lines, and excessive costs that benefited only Gould. In his effort to
                    rehabilitate Gould, Professor Grodinsky maintains that these breaches of railroad agreements and
                    rate cutting benefitted the American economy, and pictures Gould, surely with tongue in cheek, as
                    tilting against monopolistic practices and high rates. His conclusion, despite the most damning
                    evidence to the contrary, is that "the public benefited from his [Gould's]
                    activities as a man of business in the railroad industry and in the field of speculative
                    capital" (p. 610). Few of Gould's contemporaries could have accepted such a
                    judgment.
            Gould apparently left no papers which have been available to the author in the preparation of this
                    study. Use has been made, however, of materials on the 
                        Burlington
                     Railroad in the Newberry Library, the Villard papers in the 
                        Harvard
                     Library, and in other smaller collections well known to historians of transportation.
                    Heavy reliance is placed on railroad and financial journals and metropolitan newspapers.
            Notwithstanding the author's efforts to find something constructive in Gould's
                    career, there is much merit in the book. The reader is successfully carried through the most
                    complicated financial maneuvering, and many details of the rivalry of railroad magnates in the
                    seventies and eighties are clarified. His characterizations of the first two Vanderbilts, of Charles
                    Perkins, John Murray Forbes, Collis P. Huntington, Russell Sage, and Henry Villard, while not
                    acceptable to all scholars, are pungent, instructive, and at times corrective. Every reader will
                    wish that the maps were as clear as the prose.
            Paul W. Gates, Cornell University
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                         Giant: A Biography of "Long John" Wentworth. By Don E.
                    Fehrenbacher. (
                        Madison
                    , Wis.: American History Research Center, 1957. Pp. viii, 232. Illustrations,
                    bibliography, notes, index. $4.50.)
            In 1853 a correspondent of the 
                  
                            Missouri
                         Republican warned, "Long John is here, and some think the deuce is to
                    pay … everybody is awaiting with breathless anxiety the coming of some sad calamity
                    … he is a terror to his enemies. A more successful political necromancer is not to be
                    found" (p. 122).
            What manner of man was this who began life so unobtrusively in 
                        New Hampshire
                     in 1815 and departed this world in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1888 so lavishly? John Wentworth, the 
                        Chicago
                     Giant, stretched his six-foot  six-inch frame from
                    the hills of 
                        New England
                     to young and rough 
                        Chicago
                     in 1836, and from that time on earned the respect, and more often fear, of his
                    associates as he played many roles in a turbulent half-century of activity. Six times he served as
                    congressman from 
                        Illinois
                    , rubbing elbows with and helping to make or break some of our greatest political
                    leaders. Twice he served as mayor of 
                        Chicago
                    , the first time as 
                        Chicago
                    's first Republican mayor. At no time during his half-century in 
                        Chicago
                     was he completely severed from the rough and tumble of politics in 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Into this fabric of politics, his first love, Long John wove the threads of journalism as editor of
                    the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Democrat, of land speculation from which he made his million, and of farming from
                    which he gained great personal satisfaction and no small success as a cattle breeder. For one who
                    thrived on combat, marriage, too, should have been challenging, but here his achievements were far
                    from great. Throughout most of his life he lived apart from and seldom saw his wife and daughter who
                    would, no doubt, have found little satisfaction in his company.
            The 
                  
                            Chicago
                         Giant has greater value if read by one possessing a more than average
                    knowledge of the basic political issues and personalities characterizing the period, 1836-1872. The
                    relationship shown between 
                        Illinois
                     politics, with Long John as the vehicle of expression, and the consuming struggle of
                    national politics is probably the most rewarding feature of this study. It is doubtful if the lay
                    reader could easily comprehend the political significance of Long John's cataclysmic
                    defection from the radical pro-
                        Jackson
                     ranks to the Republican party. Such a reader would furthermore be hard pressed to
                    travel from 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Washington
                     to 
                        Springfield
                     and back many times, meet so many political personalities and listen to their political
                    discussion, and still remember where he had been, with whom he had spoken, and what had been said.
                    Any reader, however, would understand and enjoy Chapter 9, the only chapter in which one is really
                    allowed to feel the growing pains of youthful 
                        Chicago
                    .
            The bibliography and notes, particularly the many manuscript and newspaper references, speak
                    eloquently of the thoroughness of the study. It is, therefore, with considerable presumption that
                    the following observations are made. Long John's introduction into this world seems, in
                    Chapter 1, to be confusing as the branches of the Wentworth family tree struggle to disentangle
                    themselves. It appears too, in the same chapter, that too much effort is expended in trying, with
                    little success, to make Long John a boisterous college student. One wonders also if the Jacksonian
                    revolution was "a completed chapter" by 1843 (p. 40). At times, furthermore, the
                    continuity of chronology becomes disjointed to the temporary discomfiture of the
                    reader—e.g., on July 27, 1861, the final issue of the 
                        Chicago
                     Democrat appeared and 
                        Chicago
                    's first newspaper "spoke no more" (p. 189), yet, in the
                    following chapter (p. 192), Long John is still writing incendiary editorials in the Democrat. If these be faults they count as little, however, as we recall the event-full
                    life of this "little man" who matched strides and wits with the nation's
                    "big men" and who, in the process, became the 
                        Chicago
                     Giant.
            Donald B. Scheick, Indium State Teachers College
            
         
         
         
            
               The Great Famine: Studies in Irish History, 1845-1852. Edited by R. Dudley
                    Edwards and T. Desmond Williams. (
                  New York:
                            New York
                University Press, 1957. Pp.
                    xvi, 617. Frontispiece, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            Modern Ireland's economic and political difficulties are in ironic contrast to the
                    increasing number of excellent studies now being published by her historians. It is perhaps the
                    chastening realities of Irish life that have stimulated them to re-examine the Irish past with such
                    intelligence and diligence. Among recent contributions this study of the Great Famine, edited by R.
                    Dudley Edwards and T. Desmond Williams, both of University College, 
                        Dublin
                    , is undoubtedly the most important.
            The famine years (1845-1852) mark the great watershed of Irish history separating the old Handy Andy
                    Ireland from the too self-conscious nation that came into existence in the years that followed. Now
                    for the first time we have a sound study of the famine origins and of some, at least, of its
                    consequences. This volume is made up of seven chapters, each written by a specialist, and a
                    comprehensive foreword by the editors that describes in detail the 
                        Ireland
                     that plunged into the famine, the organization of famine relief and medical aid, as
                    well as the history of emigration during these years. There is also an interesting chapter on the
                    "Famine in Irish Oral Tradition," which reveals the essential soundness of folk
                    memory.
            The story told in these chapters differs from the conventional one that Irish nationalism has
                    cherished as an article of faith. The famine was not the consequence of a British conspiracy to
                    exterminate the Irish people, but rather the inevitable result of a population (over 8,000,000 in
                    1841) swollen beyond the capacities of its food resources. Nor was the British government, whether
                    that of Peel or of Lord John Russell, notoriously incompetent or fiendishly cold-hearted in
                    responding to the crisis. A pathetic clinging to the dogmas of classical economics explains many of
                    the errors of Peel and Russell, who lived in an age when conventional political theory and
                    organization were poor instruments for humanitarian feeling. Far from being complacent about the
                    dangers of Ireland's potato culture, British leaders were very much concerned, as their
                    private correspondence and the number of government and parliamentary commissions established to
                    look into Irish affairs suggest. But timid and shortsighted leadership, in both 
                        Ireland
                     and 
                        England
                    , before and after the famine, have made these commission studies more valuable for the
                    historian than they were for the Irish people. The famine was the ugly expression of a chaotic land
                    system, but not until the 1880's did public opinion in 
                        Ireland
                     and 
                        England
                     fully comprehend this truth.
            The skillful editors of this excellent study hope that it will stimulate further study of the famine
                    and its consequences. If the challenge is taken up, this reviewer hopes the fortunes of the old
                    landed gentry will not be neglected. The famine crumbled their world as well as the
                    peasantry's, clearing the way for the growth of modern 
                        Ireland
                    .
            Thomas N. Brown, Silver Spring, 
                            Maryland
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            
               A Short History of 
                            New York
                         State. By David M. Ellis, James A. Frost, Harold C. Syrett, and Harry J.
                    Carman. (
                        Ithaca
                    , N. Y.: Cornell University Press, 1957. Pp. xiii, 705. Maps, charts, bibliographical
                    essay, index. $7.75).
            The citizens of any state might take pardonable pride in a one-volume state history of the caliber of
                    the work under review. It is distinctly readable, but a facile style is not employed in lieu of
                    scholarhip, for the authors, four professional historians who know intimately the story of the
                    Empire State, have performed their task in a disciplined, craftsmanlike fashion. The authors have
                    divided the effort of writing the history so as to utilize successfully the interests and special
                    knowledge of the various collaborators. The earlier chapters were written by Professor Ellis and
                    Dean Frost, while those covering the period since 1865 were chiefly the work of Professor Syrett and
                    Dean Carman.
            The authors are unusually adept at beginning a paragraph with a topic sentence which effectively
                    epitomizes the entire paragraph. The following are a few such sentences, selected almost at random:
            "Most of the great merchants favored the adoption of the Constitution for the same reasons
                    as the landlords" (p. 126); "Governor Tompkins' great popularity
                    continued, and in 1816 he won reelection" (p. 143); "No sect enjoyed so favorable
                    a position in 
                        New York
                     after the Revolution as the Presbyterian" (p. 195); "
                        New York
                     wrested literary leadership from 
                        Philadelphia
                     during the first quarter of the nineteenth century" (p. 203); "Some
                    regions of the state received no benefits from the construction of the Erie and Champlain
                    canals" (p. 245); "The rise of Spiritualism provided the main religious excitement
                    of the 1850's as Millerism had in the 1840's" (p. 307); "As
                    governor, Odell provided the state with an unimaginative administration that was characterized by
                    its economy and efficiency" (p. 382); and "During the Depression years Lehman,
                    Roosevelt, and LaGuardia maintained an informal alliance that was beneficial to all
                    concerned" (p. 423).
            Such sentences well indicate that the volume is not only replete with facts but that the significance
                    of the facts is made evident. The authors, moreover, have presented a much clearer picture of some
                    important matters like the workings of Tammany Hall and of the Republican machine in the state is
                    found in the multivolume history of the state, edited (1933-1937) by A. C. Flick. In telling the
                    story of the last generation they have, of course, ploughed new ground not dealt with in the longer
                    history.
            In general, a balance between political and other matters and between the concerns of the upstate
                    communities and the massive metropolis is well preserved. Such recent developments, moreover, as the
                    extensive influx of Puerto Ricans are not ignored. Many readers may well be surprised by some facts,
                    as when the federal religious census of 1936 indicated that Roman Catholics, Methodists,
                    Episcopalians, and Presbyterians all were less numerous in the state than in 1926 (p. 633).
            The book is seemingly almost free from errors. Probably an incorrect impression is given of the
                    notable institution at Chautauqua Lake,  for
                    references to it are in the past tense (pp. 598, 635), in spite of its present vigor. The
                    misspelling of the name of Alexander Wyant, the artist (p. 610), is not repeated in the index.
            Charts, maps, illustrations, and a selected bibliography add to the attractiveness and usability of
                    the work, which the present reviewer hopes will be as popular as it is meritorious.
            Francis P. Weisenburger, 
                  
                            Ohio
                         State University
            
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               
                  
                            Washington
                         and the American Revolution. By Esmond Wright. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1957. Pp. 192. Bibliographical note, index. $2.50.)
            This book, written by a University of 
                        Glasgow
                     professor, is a volume in the "Teach Yourself History Library
                    Series," edited by A. L. Rowse of 
                        Oxford
                    . The purpose of this series, aimed at a very wide reading public, is to develop a
                    significant historical theme by focusing on the life of one great man. In this case, the author
                    gives a thoughtful and readable portrait of George Washington and a penetrating and readable account
                    of the American Revolution. Considerable use is made of important facts and details, but the author
                    has the ability to say much succinctly, and the even greater ability to see the forest as well as
                    the trees. We shall hope that his forthcoming volume on Benjamin Franklin and the
                        American People will be equally well handled.
            
               The Spirit of American Christianity. By Ronald E. Osborn. (
                        New York
                    : Harper & Brothers, 1958. Pp. xii, 241. Bibliographical note, index.
                    $3.75.)
            Although Roman Catholicism is frequently mentioned, the title of this book exaggerates its actual
                    scope. Doutbless many Episcopalians and Lutherans will feel that this book is more relevant to
                    Methodists, Baptists, Presbyterians, and Christians (Disciples) than to them. Professor Osborn, of 
                        Butler
                     University, offers significant insights into American Christianity and how it differs
                    from its European counterpart. He insists that the spirit of American Christianity is to be found
                    more in its broad currents and movements, and in the depth of popular faith, than in its superficial
                    waves and storms.
            
               Marks of 
                            Lincoln
                         on Our Land. By Maurine Whorton Redway and Dorothy Kendall Bracken. (
                        New York
                    : Hastings House, 1957. Pp. 121. Illustrations, bibliography. $3.75.)
            This volume offers pictures of buildings in which (or like those in which) 
                        Lincoln
                     lived, of monuments erected in his honor, and of places which he visited or was somehow
                    associated with, plus commentary and narrative. Though it will doubtless give pleasure, and some
                    information, to sundry persons who visit 
                        Lincoln
                     shrines, from his humble log-cabin birthplace near Hodgenville, 
                        Kentucky
                    , thence to the 
                        Lincoln
                     Monument and Tomb at 
                        Springfield
                    , or the 
                        Lincoln
                     Memorial at 
                        Washington
                    , this type of book probably encourages the 
                        Lincoln
                     Cult more than it adds to the knowledge and understanding of his life and times.
            
            
               Annual Report: Archives of DePauw University and Indiana Methodism, 1956-1957. (
                        Greencastle
                    : DePauw University, 1967. Pp. 6.)
            This brief report indicates the continued growth in quantity and quality of the Archives of DePauw
                    University and Indiana Methodism which have been strengthened during recent years by the yeoman
                    service of the Reverend Worth M. Tippy and Miss Eleanore A. Cammack. DePauw and Methodism have long
                    contributed to the educational and religious life of Indiana, and their valuable historical records
                    merit careful consideration and increasing use.
            
               The George Washington Key to Historical Research. By Wood Gray, in collaboration
                    with William C. Davis, Roderic H. Davison et al. (
                        Washington
                    , D.C.: George Washington University Bookstore, 1956. Pp. 57. Paperbound, no price
                    indicated.)
            After brief consideration of what history is and why historical methodology would be studied, the
                    author offers criteria for selection of a suitable subject for historical research and proceeds to
                    offer substantial information about various indexes, guides, and other aids for the
                    "Pursuit of Evidence." He gives specific suggestions for note-taking, criticism or
                    evaluation of evidence, writing, and particularly the use of quotations, citations, and
                    bibliography. Though useful in various ways, this volume unfortunately attempts too much in brief
                    compass.
            
               Forty Years in Politics: The Story of Ben Pelham. By Aris A. Mallas, Jr., Rea
                    McCain, and Margaret K. Hedden. (
                  Detroit: Wayne
                State University Press, 1957. Pp. Vii, 92.
                    Frontispiece, illustrations. $3.00.)
            Benjamin (Ben) B. Pelham (1862-1948) was the son of free Negroes who moved to 
                        Detroit
                     from 
                        Virginia
                    . The emphasis of this book is on Ben Pelham's education in the public schools
                    of 
                        Detroit
                    , his pioneering as the publisher of 
                        Detroit
                    's first Negro newspaper, and especially his more than four decades of
                    significant public service in various fiscal positions in 
                        Wayne County
                     from 1895 until the 1940's. His important contributions to his fellow citizens
                    of 
                        Wayne County
                     and 
                        Detroit
                     are made clear, but unfortunately this volume is not adequately documented and it is
                    neither well organized nor well written. These faults perhaps are partly the result of composite
                    authorship.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
