
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 93, Issue 4, pages 309-405. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:93+issue:4+year:1997&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            World War II in Memory
            
                    James H. Madison
                    *
                
            In this issue of the Indiana Magazine of History, Bernard L. Rice joins a long line
                    of World War II-generation Americans who have recorded their experiences. Such reminiscences have
                    increased in number in recent years, doubtless sparked by the fiftieth anniversary commemorations in
                    the early 1990s and by that generation's aging. As the young men and women of the 1940s
                    reach the status of senior citizens many have become more thoughtful about their personal histories
                    and about their connection to larger histories. One result is a written effort to sort it all out
                    for themselves and to leave a record for generations to come.
            Rice's record presents some themes that are near universal in World War II memoirs. His war
                    experiences show the large place of chance, of serendipity, and of the unpredictability of
                    one's next year, even one's next hour, of life. Rice's memory displays
                    also the close personal affection for his "buddies"-one of the best of World War
                    II words, one loaded with meaning. More than fifty years later Rice remembers sharply many buddies
                    who died and many others who survived. And there is the geography of buddies, the tendency of
                    veterans to attach hometowns to their names. Some are fellow Hoosiers, people Rice knew before and
                    after the war, but most are from places all over the country. Like hundreds of thousands of World
                    War II men and women, Rice met Americans of all kinds and people from other parts of the world.
                    Thus, this graduate of 
                        Mishawaka
                     High School, class of 1940, came at a young age to know something of the diversity of
                    this country and of the global society that so shapes us today.
            Unlike most of the World War II generation, Rice experienced military combat. Moving across 
                        France
                     and into 
                        Germany
                     in 1944–1945, he came to know the fear caused by the sound of a 
                        German
                     eighty-eight millimeter gun or the engine roar of a Tiger tank. His account of the
                    Herrlisheim battle shows the confusion of large and small events, the "fog" of
                    combat. And Rice was one of many Hoosiers who saw first hand the evil of the Nazi Holocaust. The
                    testimony of 
                  
                     * James H. Madison is professor of history, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     such ordinary Americans will always be protection against those
                    who would deny the atrocities of Nazi Germany.1
            
            A special feature of Rice's war experience comes from his assigned duty. Wanting to be a
                    pilot, and after actually acquiring flying experience, he ended up as close to the ground as one
                    could get, a medical aidman. In 
                        France
                     and 
                        Germany
                     he heard the cry of "medic" uttered in pain and panic, a cry that
                    brought him on the run, often in the open, with bandages, scissors, plasma, and morphine. He knew
                    the terror of hauling wounded men through enemy fire. Even though the 
                        German
                     enemy (unlike the Japanese) often respected the red cross of medics, jeep ambulances,
                    and hospitals, aidmen like Rice suffered heavy casualties.2 It is no wonder
                    that, as Stephen E. Ambrose has written, "The medics were the most popular, respected, and
                    appreciated men in the company."3
            
            Rice was at one end of the long chain of evacuation of casualties. The aidman made the first hasty
                    diagnosis and treatment. He stopped the blood, administered sulfa powder or perhaps plasma, relieved
                    the pain, and then got the wounded man to an aid stationall this while close enough to the enemy to
                    be wounded himself. From there the chain of evacuation stretched away from the front to collecting
                    stations and field hospitals where doctors and surgeons provided more extensive treatment and then
                    farther back to evacuation hospitals and eventually to a convalescent hospital. It was an elaborate,
                    sophisticated system, with skilled medical men and women and extensive supplies, including the
                    wonder drug penicillin, large amounts of blood, and x-ray machines. The result was a hospital life
                    rate for wounded Americans of 97 percent, a result one authority labels "the key
                    achievement of American military medicine in World War II."4
            
            Rice was at the most dangerous end of this chain of evacuation. He tells his story in a low-key,
                    unheroic style. It is the style of the generation that fought World War II. In many such wartime
                    accounts there are doubtless things forgotten or unmentioned, events too horrible to retell. And as
                    in all history there are different memories of the same events, as there are certainly different
                    perspectives on the many events that make up World War II. The stories of ordinary Americans from
                    places like 
                        Mishawaka
                     may be incomplete, but they make clear that people like Bernard Rice set out to do a
                    job, to defeat an enemy that was evil. Few of them thought it was a good war. But it was a 
                  
                     1 For another Hoosier's more detailed account, see J. Ray
                            Clark, Journey to Hell: The Fiery Furnaces of Buchenwald (Raleigh, N.C.,
                            1996).
                  
                     2 Albert E. Cowdrey, Fighting for Life: American Military
                                Medicine in World War II (
                                New York
                            , 1994), 251–52, 260, 264. 
                                German
                             SS units were more likely to fire at ambulances.
                  
                     3 Stephen E. Ambrose, Band of Brothers: E Company,
                                506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normany to
                                Hitler's Eagle's Nest (
                                New York
                            , 1992), 184.
                  
                     4 Cowdrey, Fighting for Life, 154–55,
                            160–61, quotation 175.
               
                     necessary war, and a war the good guys won. The generations
                    that came after World War II are forever in their debt for that victory and now for setting down in
                    print some of their stories for us to read and ponder.
         
         
         
            Recollections of a World War II Combat Medic
            
                    Bernard L. Rice
                    *
                
            She sobbed, "I don't want you to go!" The young man fought back his own
                    tears as he wiped the salty stream from his wife's face. A dozen about-to-be soldiers stood
                    in the predawn fog by the Red Car interurban in Van Nuys, 
                        California
                    . Most were exchanging good-byes with parents, friends, or family. Red eyes were
                    everywhere. I had said my last good-byes the night before at Ducky Dingler's rooming house,
                    but my eyes, too, were misty.
            The conductor picked up his light and with sadness in his voice said, "Boys, it's
                    time to go." He waved his light, a bell on the front of the car clanged as the last hasty
                    kisses were exchanged. Silent men filed into the car and sat down. Wheels squealed and the little
                    knot of well-wishers vanished into the fog. There were no dry eyes as we moved down Van Nuys
                    Boulevard. This was the last chance for tears, for in a few hours we would all be soldiers. And
                    soldiers did not cry, did they? Little did we know. It was January 2, 1943. Our date of return was
                    unknown.
            Thirty-nine months later I came back to my old boarding house on Van Nuys Boulevard. Ducky Dingler
                    had a bed for me. The morning after I returned, the San Fernando Valley was
                    again engulfed in fog. After breakfast I went out to Ducky's front porch and lay down in
                    her porch swing and daydreamed about buying civilian clothes. I drifted off to sleep.
            Then I heard them. 
                        German
                     jet bombers! And a voice came to me: "Red, what in the world are you
                    doing?" That was Ducky's voice, but what was she doing over here in 
                        Germany
                    ? She had no business in combat. Slowly I realized I was back in Van Nuys, on
                    Ducky's porch, with paint and wood under my fingernails from digging into her floor with my
                    bare hands.
            As I slept, the fog had dissipated, and a flight of Lockheed P-80 jets had taken off from Burbank.1 In my sleep the noise of those American jet fighters became the only jet
                    fighters I had ever seen, the 
                        German
                    
                    
                  
                     * Bernard L. Rice is a retired chemical engineer living in
                            Osceola, Indiana. He spent nineteen years with Bendix Aerospace, 
                                Mishawaka
                            , Indiana, and thirteen years with Dwyer Instruments, 
                                Michigan City
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 The P-80 was the first operational jet fighter in the 
                                United States
                             Army Air Corps. It did not see combat until the Korean War, when it was
                            designated the F-80.
               
                     man Messerschmitt 262s.2 I was scared to
                    death of them and had tried to dig a hole with my bare hands to hide in. I tried to explain this to
                    Ducky, but I was certain she did not understand at all. I know she thought, "I am going to
                    have to watch this kid. He's crazy."
            In the following pages I will describe a few of the incidents that changed a twenty-year-old airplane
                    lover into a man who could be scared by the sound of a jet. During those thirty-nine months I was to
                    find out how the Army worked and how men reacted to high stress as my buddies and I were bombed,
                    strafed, shelled, mortared, sniped at, and on occasion forced into playing God.
            
                    I'm in the Army Now
                
            I went to war a Hoosier, born in 
                        Elkhart
                    , raised in Osceola and 
                        Mishawaka
                    . My father was a baker, but during the depression he often worked at manual labor. My
                    dream of a college education and of becoming a chemist had to be financed by my own earnings. After
                    graduation from 
                        Mishawaka
                     High School in 1940, I worked as a physical testing technician in the laboratories of
                    the Ball Band Plant of the 
                        United States
                     Rubber Company.3 For the next two years I tested materials used in
                    flying boots, rubber fuel tanks for airplanes (some for Jimmy Doolittle's raiders who
                    bombed 
                        Tokyo
                     in April, 1942), military raincoats, deep-sea diving suits, rubber boots, tennis shoes,
                    and more. I started at fifty cents an hour and soon received a two-and-a-half-cent raise. I paid my
                    mother five dollars a week for room and board, bought a 1937 Ford, and enrolled at the Indiana
                    University extension at 
                        South Bend
                    . Working with aviation products whetted my appetite for flying, so I learned to fly a
                    Piper J-3 Cub, soloing on October 10, 1941.4 My instructor, Zenith Barber, soon
                    after left to ferry 
                  
                     2 The Messerschmitt 262 (Me 262) was the world's first
                            operational jet fighterbomber. It was much faster than the American piston-engine fighters,
                            but its time in the air was limited. A controversy over how the plane was to be used delayed
                            development and production of the Me 262. Hitler wanted it to be equipped as a fighterbomber
                            in order to use it against the Allied invasion of 
                                France
                            . Others in the 
                                German
                             government envisioned it as strictly a fighter plane. Had it been used as a
                            fighter plane earlier, the Me 262 could have caused great damage to Allied bombers and their
                            fighter escorts. Jeffrey Ethell and Alfred Price, The 
                                    German
                                 Jets in Combat (
                                London
                            , 1979), 10–71.
                  
                     3 The Ball Band Plant in 
                                Mishawaka
                             once employed over three thousand workers. During World War II the plant
                            manufactured gas masks, flying boots, gasoline bladders for aircraft, self-sealing gasoline
                            tanks for most bombers and fighters, raincoats for soldiers, a nylon-resin composition
                            called V-board to support fuel cells in aircraft, and deep-sea diving suits for the Navy.
                            After the war the company name was changed to Uniroyal.
                  
                     4 The Piper J-3 Cub was one of the best planes for primary training in
                            the early 1940s. It was a high-winged, fabric-covered aircraft. Early versions were powered
                            by a fifty-horsepower 
                                Franklin
                             or Continental engine. Instrumentation was sparse: oil temperature and
                            pressure, engine rpm, airspeed, and altimeter. The Cub could be stalled, spun, and looped,
                            and most students performed all of these maneuvers before flying it alone. It cost me four
                            dollars an hour to fly with an instructor and three dollars an hour to fly it solo.
               
                     military airplanes to overseas bases and encouraged me to try
                    to do the same.
            Then came America's entry into the war. Not having enough flying time to qualify as a ferry
                    pilot, I decided to become a celestial navigator. In April, 1942, I sold my 1937 Ford and bought a
                    one-way bus ticket to Van Nuys, 
                        California
                    . I enrolled in the Pan-American College of Celestial Air Navigation at the Van Nuys
                    Metropolitan Airport where I studied aerial navigation under Alan Zweng.5 I
                    supported myself by testing gasoline tanks for P-38s at Timm Aircraft, which was located at the same
                    airport.
            I developed a hernia that fall and had corrective surgery on October 1. Navigating was now on hold.
                    Then my draft number came up, and I reported for induction on December 28. All body openings were
                    poked, probed, and examined. The internist saw the red scar on my belly and inquired about it. After
                    my explanation, he said, "Well, Son, we can't put you on active duty for ninety
                    days after hernia surgery. You will be sworn in today and report for active duty on January 2, 1943,
                    at Fort MacArthur, 
                        California
                    ." This was not what I had planned. Could I now plan anything?
            The main gate of Fort MacArthur loomed out of the mist.6 A corporal met us. He
                    was God personified for the next three days. He told us, "You WILL draw your GI clothing.
                    Then you WILL send your civilian clothing home or donate it to charity. Then you WILL get your
                    haircut. DO NOT PLAN for your future. The Army will do that. And remember, the Army always has
                    'contingency plans' to take care of any emergency."
            Then he asked if there were any questions. I said, "I can fly and navigate. How do I get
                    into the Air Force from here?"
            "The Air Force is filled up, buddy. Everybody wants to fly. I want to fly. If an opening
                    comes up, I am going to get it!" He continued, "You will take your tests and wait
                    to see what the Army thinks it can do with such a sorry looking batch of misfits. But don't
                    think for a moment that we are going to throw any of you back. We ain't. In about three
                    days you will be assigned to a camp for your basic training. We are going to make fighting men out
                    of each of you. It's going to be hard on you but harder on us poor corporals who have to
                    teach you poor dumbs slobs."
            They issued us GI clothing. One of our groups, promptly nicknamed "Fashion Plate,"
                    relplendent in his obviously tailored "zootsuit," 
                  
                     5 Alan Zweng ran the Pan-American College of Celestial Air Navigation
                            in the 1940s. His father and Admiral P. V. H. Weems developed a system of aerial navigation
                            based on the use of an octant to measure the angle of a star, moon, or sun above the
                            horizon. The Zweng school was located at the Van Nuys Municipal Airport, but in the late
                            summer of 1942 the owners moved it to a new location near 
                                Universal City
                            .
                  
                     6 Named for General Arthur MacArthur, the father of General Douglas
                            MacArthur, Fort MacArthur was located on the Palos Verde peninsula in the town of San Pedro.
                            During World War II it was the reception center for men entering the Army from southern 
                                California
                            .
               
                     suit," yelled out, "Hey, sergeant, you made a
                    mistake here! I don't wear boxer shorts; I wear jockey shorts."
            The supply sergeant just rolled his eyes heavenward and yelled back, "There ain't
                    no jockey shorts in this man's Army!"
            Fashion Plate muttered under his breath, "That's uncivilized. Kee-rist! Boxer
                    shorts always ride up on me."
            Then came the shot line. Rumors and jokes about horse needles floated back to us. We embellished
                    them, adding blunt needles, and passed them on to the guys behind. Soon we all knew the cold hand of
                    doom was waiting just down the hall. We were handed a piece of paper and told, "If you lose
                    this, you will have to take your shots all over again!" Before we knew what was happening,
                    a medic scratch-scratched our left biceps, and as we stepped forward, zip-zap, unseen medics stabbed
                    needles into both arms. Then we were told to dress. I raised my arms to slip on my new olive drab
                    undershirt, and the next thing I knew I was lying on the floor wondering where in the world all
                    those soldiers had come from! Years later I recalled those unconscious seconds as the happiest
                    moments of my army career.
            On my third day in the Army, at exactly three o'clock, a sergeant posted lists on the
                    bulletin board alongside the toilet and showers. There was much shoving and pushing and
                    neck-stretching as everybody tried to learn his fate at the same time. There was mine:
                    "Pvt. Rice, Bernard L., Camp Wallace, 
                        Texas
                    . Coast Artillery, 26th AntiAircraft Training Battalion." I was not going to
                    fly airplanes. Oh, no, I was going to shoot them down! This was the first in a long series of
                    lessons on how the Army operated.
            After my basic training, I was selected by competitive examination to attend the Army Specialized
                    Training Program (ASTP) and assigned to New 
                        Mexico
                     A & M to study basic engineering.7 We were to remain
                    privates or privates first class (pfcs) until we finished the program; then we would be commissioned
                    second lieutenants.
            A year later, however, the ASTP was disbanded abruptly, and we were shipped to the 12th Armored
                    Division, which was preparing to go overseas.8 In early 1944 the 12th had
                    received a call for volunteers 
                  
                     7 The Army Specialized Training Program was created at the urging of
                            educators and industrialists who were worried about a dearth of well-trained technicians and
                            engineers in the 
                                United States
                            . President Franklin D. Roosevelt, worried that the program would become a way
                            for the wealthy to keep their sons out of combat, insisted that admission be by competitive
                            examination and available only to men with IQs of 115 or higher. During preparations for the
                            invasion of 
                                France
                            , much of the ASTP was disbanded in order to free more men for combat duty. Most
                            ASTP soldiers were scattered among combat units then in the final stages of training in the 
                                United States
                            . ASTP men in the medical schools continued to study and did earn their degrees
                            and commissions as promised.
                  
                     8 Armored divisions were all nicknamed. The 1st Armored was
                            "Old Ironsides," the 3rd was "Hell on Wheels," and the
                            12th was "Hellcats." We went from one extreme to another, from the
                            "Sword and Lamp of Knowledge" of the ASTP to "Hellcats."
                            It was quite a change for all of us.
               
                     for a hazardous duty assignment. Several hundred men had
                    volunteered and participated in the invasion of Normandy, June 6, 1944. The depleted ranks of the
                    12th were filled with about one thousand ASTP men. Most of those who had volunteered to leave the
                    division were privates or pfcs, leaving the 12th top-heavy in rank. We ASTP men found we had no
                    chance for advancement. I asked to be placed in the field artillery so I could fly their observation
                    planes, which were Piper Cubs gone to war. The pilot and observer radioed corrections to the aiming
                    of our big guns. When my orders came, however, they read, "Company C, 82nd
                    Medics."
            
                    I Become a Pill Roller
                
            The 82nd Armored Medical Battalion had been activated as a unit of the 12th on September 15, 1942, at
                    Camp 
                  Campbell, Kentucky
               . Most of the men in the 82nd had been with it since its
                    formation. They had received their basic and advanced medical training at 
                        Campbell
                    .9
            
            The 82nd provided medical support for the 12th Armored. The large vehicles-such as tanks and
                    half-tracks, tank retrievers, and self-propelled guns-and other specialty vehicles plus their fuel
                    posed hazards different from those in standard infantry divisions. In addition to tending the wounds
                    inflicted by enemy weapons, we were faced with treating casualties from vehicular accidents and
                    burns.
            All training, equipment, and treatment techniques were under the direction of our division surgeon,
                    Colonel Alf T. Haerem. He worked with medical personnel in the headquarters of the army corps to
                    which the 12th was assigned. The 82nd was headed by a battalion headquarters that supplied the
                    division with medical equipment and drugs, performed major repairs to all our medical vehicles, and
                    maintained medical records of casualties as they flowed through the battalion. There were three
                    letter companies-A, B, and C-composed of about 120 men each. Each company had two treatment platoons
                    that operated the mobile medical and surgical facilities. Composed of four doctors and about one
                    dozen technicians, a treatment platoon stabilized the sick and wounded men so that they could be
                    transported farther to the rear, usually to an evacuation hospital. One of the doctors was a dentist
                    who had an assistant.
            
               
                  9 Medics, both officers and enlisted men, had myriad stories about their
                        training at Camp 
                            Campbell
                        . A strong bond between these men was apparent when we arrived. One of our first
                        lectures was on the history of the 82nd Armored Medical Battalion by the C Company commanding
                        officer, Captain Walter Wiggins. All of us newcomers to the 82nd had a lot of catching up to do
                        even though we had had first aid courses in basic training and more while in the ASTP. We sewed
                        up orange peels as they were supposed to be a realistic substitute for human flesh. At least we
                        learned how to thread a needle properly and could bring the edges of the orange peel together
                        even if they were a bit mismatched. We were divided into two-man teams, and we practiced giving
                        shots and drawing blood from each other. Believe me, there was a lot of squirming on the part of
                        the guy being shot or stuck.
            
            
            
               SOLDIERS OF THE 12TH ARMORED DIVISION, ABILENE, TEXAS,
                            MARCH 1944
               THE AUTHOR IS KNEELING ON ONE KNEE AT THE LEFT OF THE FRONT ROW.
               Courtesy Max Eagelfeld and the author.
            
            Each letter company had ten ambulances. During training and in the first weeks of combat, the
                    ambulance platoon carried casualties from the forward aid stations to the treatment station. Later,
                    as we swept across 
                        Germany
                    , we fought as a "task force" composed of a company of tanks, a
                    company of infantry, an artillery battery, plus specialists from ordnance, engineering, and signal
                    companies. One or more of our ambulances usually brought up the rear.
            The ambulances of C Company were directed by First Lieutenant Bill Roark, who was assisted by Second
                    Lieutenant Joseph L. Pittari. Staff Sergeant Arthur Long helped manage the platoon. Under Long were
                    two sergeants, Clyde Robinson and Clarence Fread, and Corporals Chester Higgs, Tom Rhodes, Byron
                    Young, and Alan Horowitz. The ambulance drivers were either privates first class or technicians
                    fifth class.10 Each ambulance driver had an assistant driver or aid man. Once in
                    combat, an aid man who survived thirty days or more with an infantry, tank, reconnaissance, or
                    artillery unit became a combat medic. He could be a private, private first class, or technician
                    fifth class.
            
               
                  10 Men who had taken courses in the various medical or surgical
                        specialties were rated as skilled technicians, and their rank was noted as technician fifth,
                        fourth, or third class. They were referred to as T5, T4, or T3. A T5 was equivalent to a
                        corporal, a T4 to a sergeant, and a T3 to a staff sergeant.
            
            
            I well remember my chagrin at being told I was to be a "pill roller." As we trained
                    to save the lives of the wounded, injured, and sick, however, I began to accept the role. We learned
                    which injury to treat first and how to stop the flow of blood, how to sew and protect damaged
                    tissue, and how to administer morphine and blood plasma. We could splint a broken bone using army
                    equipment or improvise when issued equipment was not available. We were also taught the value of
                    prophylaxis, the prevention of disease.
            We spent the summer of 1944 in intensive training. We attended classes on medical and surgical
                    techniques and worked on field problems with a combat command. We transferred simulated casualties
                    over rough terrain from the "battlefield" to our treatment stations. There were
                    also real casualties from injuries and accidents during this time. One man was nearly cut in half
                    when his "grease gun," a new machine pistol, went off by itself while lying on the
                    back seat of a jeep. Another ran through a barbed wire fence, severely slashing his throat.
            On September 3, 1944, we boarded a troop train and were sent to Camp Shanks, 
                        New York
                    . From there we boarded the navy troopship Tasker H. Bliss and landed
                    at Avonmouth, 
                        England
                    , on October 1. After five weeks of further training at a British army base at
                    Tidworth's Windmill Hill, we were given our assignments; mine was to drive Lieutenant Bill
                    Roark, our ambulance platoon leader.11
            
            We waited on the docks at Southhampton to board Landing Ship Tanks (LSTs) on November 11. In those
                    days we all observed a moment of silent prayer at 11:00 a.m. on that date in remembrance of those
                    who had died in wars. As the somber notes of taps echoed off the hulls of ships at the wharf, we
                    wondered what our fate would be. How many of us would be among those being revered a year later? I
                    thought, "I'm going to miss you guys."
            Our LSTs crossed the English Channel and were the first military cargo to go up the Seine
                        River to Rouen, 
                        France
                    , where we arrived in mid-November. Assigned to the 7th Army, we convoyed across 
                        France
                     to Luneville. In the first week of December we went into combat for the first time on
                    the Maginot Line near Bitche. We relieved the 4th Armored Division, destined to fight the Germans in
                    the Ardennes in a few days.12
            
            
               
                  11 Located between Southampton and 
                            Salisbury
                        , Tidworth Barracks was originally a training camp for the British army. After the 
                            United States
                         entered the war, American forces occupied a tent city called "Windmill
                        Hill." When my unit stayed there, the equipment was in bad repair. We heard that we
                        were the last men to occupy the site, since with the invasion of 
                            France
                        , American forces arriving in Europe could go directly to the mainland.
               
                  12 The 7th Army was the spearhead of the Allies' 6th Army Group,
                        which had invaded southern 
                            France
                         from the Mediterranean in August, 1944. After quickly securing beachheads on the
                        Riviera and taking the port city of Marseilles, the 6th Army Group had driven north toward
                        Grenoble and beyond. American forces had reached Dijon in mid-September and then had turned
                        northeast to link up with George Patton's 3rd
            
            
            Our training period may have been over, but now we were truly learning. We quickly discovered war was
                    not what we had experienced on maneuvers.
            
                    Herrlisheim
                
            We were finally in combat. Now our casualties were real. We bandaged and carried men torn by bullets
                    and shrapnel. Our tank warfare expert, Lieutenant Colonel Montgomery Meigs, was decapitated when he
                    stuck his head from the turret of his tank to direct the attack. On our first day of combat, two out
                    of ten C Company ambulances were fired on and one medic, Louis Kaducak, was wounded. It was an
                    ominous beginning.13
            
            In mid-December the Germans broke through the Allied lines in the Ardennes Forest in an attempt to
                    retake the major port of Antwerp. This was called "The Battle of the Bulge."14 The 12th, meanwhile, had been assigned the task of eradicating a small pocket
                    of Germans at the Gambsheim bridgehead along the Rhine River north of
                    Strasbourg. We were told this area was defended by a few hundred ill-equipped Wehrmacht. A quick
                    victory here would give this green division experience and confidence for future combat.
            However, Hitler knew the Allies had rushed all their reserves north to the Bulge. When it became
                    obvious the Germans would not recapture Antwerp, he decided to smash into our weakened southern
                        
                  Army, which had raced across northern 
                                France
                            . The Allies had then struck east toward the Rhine River.
                            In late November the 7th Army had led the 6th Army Group in taking Strasbourg. Robert
                            Leckie, Delivered from Evil: The Saga of World War II (
                                New York
                            , 1987), 757–58; L. F. Ellis, Victory in the West:
                            Vol. II, The Defeat of 
                                    Germany
                                
                      (
                                London
                            , 1968), 165.
                  
                     13 The death of Meigs is noted in Kenneth Bradstreet, ed., Hellcats (Paducah, Ky., 1987), 61. The details of his death are still
                            being debated by men who were there. The most popular version says that Meigs, having lost
                            several tanks to accurate 
                                German
                             fire from pillboxes on the Maginot Line, had surveyed the situation and
                            concluded that he could not take the assigned pillboxes from his position on the front. He
                            asked Major General Rodrick R. Allen, commanding general of the 12th Armored, to request
                            permission for his tanks to attack through the lines of the infantry division next door. He
                            was refused and told to stay within the 12th's boundaries. Leaving the meeting,
                            Meigs was reported to have said, "I'm a dead man." Men within the
                            tank told many times of the terror felt within the tank as the headless body dropped back
                            inside with blood spurting from the neck arteries. My driver, Hooper, and I were fired upon
                            by a 
                                German
                             eighty-eight millimeter gun while we were returning with our first load of
                            wounded that first day. Fortunately, either the gun crew was inexperienced or
                            Hooper's slow-down-speed-up tactics threw off the gunners' aim, for all of
                            the shells fell behind us. The ambulance carrying Louis Kaducak was not as lucky. Kaducak
                            was in the passenger seat, and medic Andy Clemente was lying on a litter behind the driver.
                            A piece of shrapnel slammed into the side of the ambulance, whizzed above
                            Clemente's head, and imbedded itself into Kaducak's back just above the
                            left kidney. Kaducak, however, returned to duty a few weeks later and rejoined us.
                  
                     14 For the Battle of the Bulge, see Charles MacDonald, A
                                Time for Trumpets: The Untold Story of the Battle of the Bulge (
                                New York
                            , 1985); Robert E. Merriam, Dark December: The Full Account of the
                                Battle of the Bulge (
                                New York
                            , 1947); John Strawson, The Battle for the Ardennes (
                                New York
                            , 1972).
               
                     front from the Gambsheim pocket. He set up "Operation
                    Nordwind," to be led by Heinrich Himmler. Nordwind was to push the French out of newly
                    freed Strasbourg, breach the gap in the mountains at Saverne, then push on toward the sea.15
            
            Supreme Commander Dwight D. Eisenhower, keenly aware of his lack of reserves, wrote General Jacob L.
                    Devers, 21st Corps commander, that in the event of a 
                        German
                     attack in the south he should straighten the Allied lines and withdraw all American and
                    French forces from the Alsatian plain. This would strengthen the front, place the Allied forces in a
                    better defensive position, and free up two divisions that could be used as reserves. This decision
                    would come back to haunt Eisenhower.16
            
            In early January, Himmler assembled the 553rd Volksgrenadier Infantry Division, the 10th SS Panzer
                    Grenadier Division (Liebestandarte Adolph Hitler), the 17th SS Panzer Grenadier Division, 31st
                    Panzer Division, and several smaller battle groups in the Black Forest across the Rhine opposite us.
                    These units were ferried across the Rhine at night.17
            
            The panzer divisions were equipped with the newest 
                        German
                     Tiger and Panther tanks, whose guns could blast through an American Sherman
                    tank's front armor from five thousand yards away. The Sherman's guns could not
                    penetrate the frontal armor on these 
                        German
                     tanks, but if they had the opportunity to attack from the side at ranges of two
                    thousand to four thousand yards, they could blow the tracks from the Tigers and Panthers. This was
                    not an even match.
            The Germans had discovered early in the war that our Sherman tanks would burn when hit at a rear
                    sprocket. When Shermans appeared, the Germans called out, "Here come the Ronsons!"
                    ("Ronson" was a famous American cigarette lighter.)
            Working with these disadvantages, we used our tanks primarily against infantry and avoided
                    tank-versus-tank battles. Our tank destroyer battalions and infantry with bazookas were to take care
                    of the 
                        German
                     tanks. The bazooka was a rocket-propelled projectile that could burn a hole through the
                    thick armor of the Tiger tank. (The Germans had earlier developed the Panzerfaust which destroyed
                    our tanks the same way.) The TDs (tank destroyers) manned "Hellcat" vehicles that
                    had a large bore gun mounted on a Sherman tank chassis.18
            
            
               
                  15 Bradstreet, Hellcats, 67.
               
                  16 Dwight D. Eisenhower, Crusade in Europe (
                            New York
                        , 1948), 362–63.
               
                  17 Bradstreet, Hellcats, 77.
               
                  18
                        
                            Shelby
                         Stanton, Order of Battle, U. S. Army, World War II (Novate,
                        Calif., 1984), 64–65, 337; Keith E. Bonn, When the Odds Were Even
                        (Novato, Calif., 1994), 58. Two of my ASTP buddies, the Mancill twins, Robert and Allan, were a
                        bazooka team in C Company, 66th Armored Infantry Battalion. Allan was killed on February
                        16,1945, and Robert was captured the same day near Weyersheim, 
                            France
                        .
            
            
            The Germans moved across the Rhine at night into the Gambsheim area and hid in the wooded area known
                    as the Stainwald. In the meantime, the 12th was preparing to attack the supposedly small 
                        German
                     force. We were about to find out what hell really was.
            When 
                        German
                     prisoners of war told of the build-up taking place in the south, Devers ordered all
                    divisions, French as well as American, to retreat to the Vosges Mountains. This
                    would abandon Strasbourg and the surrounding area, an act condemning three hundred thousand loyal
                    Frenchmen to death when the Germans strode back into the area. French commander Charles de Gaulle
                    found this unacceptable, and he ordered his men to hold Strasbourg at any cost. De Gaulle also
                    telegraphed British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and President Roosevelt to request their
                    support in halting the planned withdrawal. Roosevelt deferred the query back to Eisenhower who was
                    furious at de Gaulle's insubordination.19
            
            Things came to a head on January 3. Churchill flew to 
                        France
                     and met with de Gaulle and Eisenhower. Both de Gaulle and Eisenhower later wrote
                    accounts of that meeting. De Gaulle related that Eisenhower opened the meeting by stating his
                    reasons for the withdrawal: the Bulge, the emergence of 
                        German
                     jet- and rocket-powered fighter planes, and the new 
                        German
                     Panther tanks. While Allied ground troops would be slaughtered if the armies met on the
                    flat plains, the Panthers would be at a disadvantage in the Vosges Mountains.
                    Moreover, the Germans had attacked in the Colmar pocket just south of the 12th Division over the
                    previous two days.20
            
            When de Gaulle told Eisenhower he could not condemn thousands of Frenchmen to certain death,
                    Eisenhower responded with, "You give me political reasons … to change military
                    orders."
            De Gaulle argued, "Armies are created to serve the policy of states. And no one knows better
                    than you yourself that strategy should include not only the given circumstances of military
                    technique, but also the moral elements. And for the French people and the French soldiers, the fate
                    of Strasbourg is of an extreme moral importance."21
            
            De Gaulle wrote that Churchill chimed in, "All my life I have noted the significance Alsace
                    has for the French. I agree with General de Gaulle that this fact must be taken into
                        consideration."22
            
            Eisenhower pressed de Gaulle further, asking what the French First Army would do if the Americans cut
                    off all the supplies to the 
                  
                     19 Charles de Gaulle, The Complete War Memoirs of Charles
                                de Gaulle (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1955), III, 164–67.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 169. Although the 6th Army Group had successfully pushed the
                            Germans across the Rhine in an area around Strasbourg, there remained a substantial 
                                German
                             bridgehead east of the Rhine to the south of the city. This was known as the
                            Colmar pocket, since the city of Colmar was at its center. Ellis, Defeat of 
                                    Germany
                                , 165.
                  
                     21 De Gaulle, Complete War Memoirs, III,
                            169–70.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 171.
               
                     French. De Gaulle replied that the French people might be
                    forced to deny the Allies the use of the roads and railroads if the war was not conducted in the
                    best interests of 
                        France
                    . He wrote later: "Rather than contemplate the consequences of such
                    possibilities, I felt I should rely upon General Eisenhower's strategic talent and on his
                    devotion to the service of the coalition of which 
                        France
                     constitutes a part."23
            
            De Gaulle won his point. Eisenhower telephoned General Devers that the retreat was to be cancelled
                    immediately. Eisenhower, in his account of the conference, wrote: "He [Churchill] sat in
                    with us as we talked but offered no word of comment. After de Gaulle left, he quietly remarked to
                    me, 'I think you have done the wise and proper thing.'"24
            
            The 12th Armored Division stayed and fought. Not only were we badly outnumbered, we were also not
                    equipped to dig in and hold against an enemy attack. An armored division's strength is its
                    ability to move, strike, and then move again.
            The "Hell of Herrlisheim" lasted eight days before troops from the 36th Infantry
                    Division relieved us. In memory, everything runs together, but here are incidents I cannot forget.
            We attacked over a broad, flat, frozen plain covered with snow. The plain ended at the Stainwald. We
                    whitewashed all our tanks and other front line vehicles so they would blend in with the snow. The
                    tankers soon found Sherman tanks uncontrollable on the snowcovered ice.
            The infantry had no picnic either. Soldiers fell while running over those flat and slippery fields.
                    It was impossible to dig in. They waded or swam the ice-clogged ditches and canals that crisscrossed
                    the plain. Sometimes they used the canals as trenches. Some infantry platoons were cut off and
                    sliced up piecemeal. Others were captured intact as they were overwhelmed.
            The casualty list of the 1st Squad, 2nd Platoon, C Company, 56th Armored Infantry at Herrlisheim
                    tells the story of those foot soldiers. Of the eleven men, Platoon Sergeant Leslie T. Silvering and
                    Privates First Class Alex A. Palma and William P. Desmond were killed. Priest, 
                        Knox
                    , Hinojosha, Pilings, and Platoon Corporals Dewitt and Oaks were wounded. Only T 5
                    Conkling and Simmons went unscathed.
            I helped the medics of the 56th Infantry pick up some wounded along the canal near Rohrwiller. Dozens
                    of burned-out and flaming tanks screened the field with smoke. We evacuated our wounded under fire
                    and came back into town. Then I saw an ASTP buddy, Joe Lentz, of 
                        South Bend
                    , climbing aboard a halftrack, his M-l rifle slung over his back. I ran over and said,
                    "Be careful, Joe. I just came back from the canal. It is hotter than hell up
                    there."
            
               
                        23
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  24 Eisenhower, Crusade in Europe,
                    362–63.
            
            
            He looked down at me and said, "Don't worry. I'll be OK."
            About an hour later someone walked into the aid station and told us that the last halftrack had been
                    ambushed and that all aboard had been killed. I felt pretty bad about Joe. But this story has an
                    epilogue. Two years later I thought I saw the ghost of Joe Lentz walking toward me in downtown 
                        South Bend
                    . This was no ghost, just one bitter man. He said that he had been wounded and left for
                    dead by someone from the 12th. He was later picked up by a medic from the 36th Infantry.
            One night at the 56th Infantry aid station, two wounded were brought in. One, a lieutenant, had his
                    left arm severed just below the shoulder. He was conscious and talking. The other GI had several
                    holes in his abdomen and was unconscious. The aid station surgeon, Captain William Zimmerman, said,
                    "Let's get the arm first." I applied sulfa powder and helped bandage the
                    stump. I lit a cigarette for the lieutenant and placed it between his trembling lips.
                    "Thanks," he whispered. He sat on a litter with his back against a box.
            We then worked on the lad with the belly wounds. There was little hope for him. There were vital
                    organs in that area, and he had so many holes. We sprinkled sulfa powder all over his belly and put
                    on a compression bandage.25
            
            We heard a "clunk" and checked the lieutenant. He was lying on the floor, dead. The
                    GI with the belly wounds, however, lived and returned to his company a few months later. You never
                    bat a 
                  
                     25 Combat medics provided very basic first aid. We were to protect
                            wounds from infection, control pain, and stabilize the wounded man so that he could be
                            transported back to a medical clearing station where he could receive emergency medical care
                            from a physician or surgeon and other trained medical personnel. The combat medic had to
                            adjust to the rapid transition from periods of relative quiet to the hellacious, feverish
                            activity of diagnosis, stabilization, and evacuation of the wounded under enemy (and
                            sometimes friendly) fire. We had minimal equipment. All training and supplies were
                            predicated on the assumption that there would be no running water. Each soldier carried an
                            all-purpose Carlyle bandage on his belt. The combat medic carried several Carlyles plus
                            packets of sulfa powder, a few morphine syrettes, and a supply of emergency medical tags. If
                            possible, the medic would fill out a form (EMT) so that the next person treating the wounded
                            would know what the injury was and what treatment had been given, for often the wounded
                            would be unconscious upon arrival at the next station. The empty morphine syrette was
                            attached to the EMT or the patient's clothing to insure that the patient did not
                            receive a second dose. Bleeding was stopped with pressure and the wound securely bandaged.
                            The tourniquet was used sparingly to prevent oxygen starvation to limbs. Sucking chest
                            wounds were not readily treated by the combat medic for the vaselined gauze used to stop the
                            flow of air through the hole was not always available. Broken bones were immobilized with
                            whatever the environment provided. First choice was an army medical splint, followed by
                            sticks, rolled papers, or a blanket, each bound tightly to immobilize the joint above and
                            below the fracture. Sulfa powder was sprinkled on open wounds. Water was not given to
                            wounded men with abdominal perforations, for that could lead to partially digested material
                            within the abdominal organs being flushed out into the abdominal cavity, compounding the
                            problems and even causing the death of the man. Combat medics were told that when they were
                            faced with a situation for which they had not received training, they should still do
                            something. Chances were that you would do the right thing even if you did not know why. We
                            were instructed never to let a man die because we did nothing.
               
                     thousand when you play God. At Herrlisheim, hell and health met
                    at the hands of the combat medic and were forever after united.
            Late one night Colonel Ingrahm Norton, commander of the 56th Infantry, came into the aid station.
                    Captain Zimmerman offered him a canteen cup of hot coffee. As the colonel hugged the warmth of the
                    stainless steel container, he passed his haggard eyes over the scene: our sparse aid station, an
                    unconscious wounded GI on a litter. He had already passed the pile of bodies awaiting the Graves
                    Registration team. After a few minutes the captain asked how things were going.
            The colonel spoke in halting phrases. "I can account for … about 100 men
                    … of the 56th … right now." He choked back dry sobs as he spoke. He
                    was a very miserable man.26
            
            Aid stations treated more than body wounds. Combat took its toll on the mind, too. It was not that
                    everybody went crazy, but many men needed a kind word and a little reassurance. It was not easy to
                    accept the loss of buddies that you had slept, eaten, worked, and played beside for months or years.
                    Even the most hardy had difficulty facing the fact that they might die in the next hour, the next
                    day, the next week.
            Into this Hell the hand and voice of the chaplain was sometimes the best medicine. The following is a
                    condensation of a recollection by First Lieutenant Lee Ghormley of the 66th Infantry about a night
                    at Herrlisheim: 
                        God, it's cold. Today is tomorrow and yesterday is today and Rohrwiller is
                            Bischwiller and Herrlisheim is Hell on earth. A Sergeant moved along the remnants of his
                            platoon, selecting one, then another, for a short rest back at the 82nd Medical Battalion
                            Aid Station in Bischwiller.
                        There, those tired and bearded men of mercy, the Medics, moved about, zephyr-like,
                            administering aid, comfort and relieving the pain of the wounded, frozen and exhausted.
                            Saving lives, that's what they were doing. God Yes, saving lives!
                        In another room, a group of tired, cold men with hollow hearts and sunken eyes, sat and
                            smoked a cigarette in peace. These were the darkest days of that grim, horrible war for most
                            of the men; for many, their last.
                        They were gathered around a Chaplain frying cheeseburgers on a small stove. He placed them
                            into grimy hands, offering words of encouragement, reminders of home or some sincere tribute
                            to a fallen or missing comrade; speaking their language, renewing their faith and fanning
                            the embers of the will to live within the bodies of bearded things that had almost forgotten
                            that they were men, human beings.
                        A GI muttered, "This is the best kind of religion." Grimy, battered GIs,
                            most of whom had not smiled in days, looked at each other and grinned. They were ready to go
                            back up. The Chaplain had done his work well.27
                  
                    
                
            Private first class Robert Hooper, my ambulance driver, was 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Dutch. He looked like Bing Crosby and played the guitar. He would sing
                    "He's Too Old to Cut the Mustard Anymore" and "The Big White
                    Bird" as he drove. The crew of a 
                        German
                     eighty-eight 
                  
                     26 Many of the missing men had been surrounded in Herrlisheim. Some
                            were captured, a few escaped, and many were killed.
                  
                     27 Bradstreet, Hellcats, 92.
               
                     millimeter gun would fire at vehicles as we sped along a short
                    stretch of road. Eventually Hooper was dodging wrecks along the way. We would both sing to take our
                    patients' minds off the danger of a shell that might blast us into oblivion at any instant.
                    Hoop always got us through.
            One night after taking a load of wounded back to our clearing station, a primitive emergency room,
                    Hoop had to service the ambulance. Captain Campbell asked me to hold the plasma bottle while he
                    amputated the leg of a badly shattered young man. As 
                        Campbell
                     proceeded with the surgery, I felt tunnel vision setting in and knew it was just a
                    matter of time until I passed out. I focused on the eyes of a surgical technician and prayed he
                    would notice me. As my legs buckled, he rushed up and grabbed the plasma bottle as I fell. In a
                    couple of minutes, I got up and drank a cup of hot coffee. Hoop stuck his head in the door and
                    hollered for me, and we went back for another load of wounded.
            A tired bunch of survivors left the Herrlisheim area. As we pulled out, we realized we had neither
                    changed clothes nor slept for eight days. How did we stay awake? Well, if you were as scared as we
                    were, you would not sleep either!
            After the battle the 12th was rated by the 7th Army as "at onethird effective strength and
                    unsuitable for combat." We immediately received 13 officers and 1,089 enlisted men as
                        replacements.28
            
            The 82nd Armored Medical Battalion was awarded the Presidential Meritorious Service Unit Plaque for
                    its role during Herrlisheim. The 12th was awarded a battle star.
            As an inexperienced and green division, we had made a lot of mistakes but not as many as the enemy.
                    We also learned a lot. We had been outnumbered and had possessed inferior tanks. We may have bent,
                    but the Germans did not break through our thin line. Hitler did not get his Atlantic port. The
                    battle of Herrlisheim did not receive much notice in the press. All the correspondents were up north
                    covering the big story, the mop-up of the Germans in the Ardennes. Had the Germans broken through
                    our lines, all the correspondents would have flocked down to cover the story. But the Germans had
                    taken notice: they now respectfully called us "The Suicide Division."29
            
            
                    In the French First Army
                
            After Herrlisheim we were assigned to the French First Army, commanded by General Jean de Lattre de
                    Tassigny, later Marechal de 
                        France
                    . This was one of the few times in 
                        United States
                     history that American troops served under a foreign flag. Our mission was to drive the
                    Germans from the Colmar pocket.
            
               
                  28
                        Ibid., 77.
               
                        29
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            
            
            
            
            Hooper and I took Lieutenant Riley and a billeting party of three into the city of Colmar. Later we
                    found we were the first six GIs to enter that historic town. Riley picked the University of Colmar
                    building for our treatment station.
            That night a small group of 
                        German
                     soldiers who had holed up in a building across the street from us tried to escape in
                    the darkness. Within a few moments we had several casualties right on our doorstep. Later, huge
                    shells from a railway gun across the Rhine dropped into our area. One shell hit the roof of our
                    building. Tile and bricks rained down upon our ambulance.
            The next day Hoop and I supported the 17th Infantry Battalion. We served alongside the French
                    Moroccan troops. They fought from horseback, and we witnessed what may have been the last cavalry
                    charge on the western front. It was quite a sight as a few hundred white-robed men armed with long
                    rifles mounted their steeds and raced down the hill onto a plain to charge a 
                        German
                     outpost.
            During this action, ambulance driver T 5 Lawrence Keller and his aid man, Fred Santoro, were wounded
                    when a shell dropped beside their ambulance. Fred jumped into the ditch and discovered he was next
                    to an old high school buddy whom he had not seen in years. Surprised, Fred yelled, "Joe,
                    what in the world are you doing here?!"30
            
            After smashing the Colmar pocket, the 12th rested and trained near Nancy, 
                        France
                    . C Company, 82nd Medics spent a couple of weeks in the small village of Basse Vigneulle
                    on the Maginot Line. While here, I had a serious discussion with our combat command surgeon, Major
                    Pennock, about getting an aerial ambulance. I knew the Germans had one called a Storch. I told
                    Pennock that I could fly patients back in minutes in relative comfort compared to the hours it took
                    to drive over rough fields and torn-up roads. The groans of the wounded as we jostled them in the
                    ambulance told us we were compounding the injuries that they had already received. Pennock told me
                    to keep my eye open for a Storch, and if I found one, to hold it and notify him.
            
                    With Patton's Third Army
                
            On March 17, 1944, we were transferred to the 3rd Army. All division markings were removed from our
                    vehicles and all 12th Armored patches were removed from our clothing. We were now "The
                    Mystery Division" spearheading Patton's drive to the Rhine.
            We broke through the 
                        German
                     lines near Trier heading east. Patton's strategy was simple: once you were on
                    the move, keep going. Keep the enemy off balance, never give him time to dig in, and set 
                  
                     30 In 1985 the widow of Jean de Lattre de Tassigny, Marechal de 
                                France
                            , sent me a picture of her late husband with a handwritten note:
                            "Bernard L. Rice, En souvenir de la victoire de Colmar-2 Fevrier 1945. G. de
                            Lattre. 1985."
               
                     up a line of defense. Just keep going until you ran out of
                    gasoline or until you met too much resistance. Once more, we went without sleep, but this time it
                    was only for three days.
            It was here that we observed the close cooperation between the ground troops and the P-47s of the 9th
                    Air Force. The planes came in right over the trees and shrubs and strafed the 
                        German
                     convoys fleeing ahead of us.
            Until now we had not realized the wide range of 
                        German
                     modes of transportation. They had many bombers, the Messerschmitt Me 262 jet fighter
                    and the Me 163 rocket-powered fighter, yet a lot of their ground equipment was horse-drawn. After a
                    pass by four P-47s, the roadside was littered with dead and dying horses. Many were still harnessed
                    to struggling survivors. Once, we cut a struggling horse free from its dying mate after giving aid
                    to the 
                        German
                     wounded.
            When the drive to the Rhine was over, we had captured thousands of 
                        German
                     soldiers. Our losses were light. We joined up with the French on March 24 and reverted
                    back to the 7th Army.
            
                    No Turning Back
                
            We crossed the Rhine on the pontoon bridge at Worms on March 28. Now there was no turning back. We
                    had to attack and keep moving east. The only alternative, as we saw it, was drowning in the Rhine.
            Our first objective was Wiirzburg. Hooper and I were sent along with the 92nd reconnaissance
                    squadron. Most of the time we were miles ahead of the main body of troops. Evacuating the wounded
                    led to some harrowing moments.
            Three B Company men never forgot George Wenrick, of A Company 714th Tank Battalion, and George never
                    forgot them. In one horrible instant George's lower jaw had been removed by a burst from a 
                        German
                     machine pistol. Sergeant Frank Thomas, T 4 Richard Hendry, and Pfc. Menzo Van Slyke
                    found him.
            They tried to lay George down so they could determine the extent of his injuries and stop the
                    bleeding, but George kept struggling to sit up. Menzo then realized that George's
                    unsupported tongue was falling back into his throat, blocking his air.
            Once more Hell and heroism met at the fingertips of a combat medic. Menzo stuck a safety pin through
                    the tip of George's tongue and closed it. Then he tied the safety pin to a shirt button
                    with a piece of string. This kept George's tongue from strangling him when laid down. Then
                    they were able to stop the bleeding.
            Back in the states surgeons reconstructed a new jaw from George's hip bone. Muscle and skin
                    from his abdominal wall were sculpted into facial tissue. It took them six years to form
                    George's new face.
            
            
               PONTOON BRIDGE OVER THE RIVER RHINE AT WORMS, 1945
               Photograph by Robert Spring. Courtesy the author.
            
            
               MEDICAL SUPPLY TRUCK ENTERING SAARBRUCKEN,
                            GERMANY
               
               Photograph by Robert Spring. Courtesy the author.
            
            
            Menzo Van Slyke was written up for a Silver Star for saving George's life, but a combat
                    command surgeon vetoed it because the proper antiseptic procedures had not been followed!31
            
            Lieutenant Bill Roark, our ambulance platoon leader, decided to give his driver, Corporal Byron
                    Young, a rest and asked Private Kenny Zaraco to drive him. Zaraco wondered if he could finish his
                    coffee first. Roark replied that he would find someone else. Company Clerk Loren Cluff jumped at the
                    chance to drive the jeep, but his superior, Lieutenant George Reilly, objected because Cluff had to
                    file a report. Roark then asked Corporal Tom Rhodes of 
                        Rochester
                    , Indiana, if he could drive. Tom responded, "Sure, Sir."
            They picked up Sergeant Arthur Long and took off for the front. They came to a fork in the road, and
                    Tom took the left fork because he had been at that same route the evening before. Roark told Tom to
                    stop, back up, and take the righthand road. Tom told Roark he had taken the left fork the day
                    before, but Roark insisted he was correct and ordered Tom to go right. About a half mile down the
                    road, 
                        German
                     soldiers popped up from foxholes along the road. They were captured. Eventually Long
                    escaped, but Tom and Roark were not freed until the end of the war. Lieutenant Joe Pitari, our
                    assistant platoon leader, now took over the ambulance platoon.
            I was with the 17th Infantry near Lorsch, 
                        Germany
                    , on April 6, 1945. Two Messerschmitt 262 jet fighter-bombers dived in on us. As I lay
                    facedown on the bank of a small stream, one of their bombs lifted me off the grass. When I finally
                    shook the cobwebs from my brain, I heard the familiar call of "Medic!" I helped
                    pull a wounded GI from a burning halftrack. During the next few minutes the wounded man and I
                    discovered we had both worked for Timm Aircraft back in Van Nuys in the summer of 1942. He had a bad
                    leg wound and a perforated belly. He could have no water. As we evacuated him, he begged for a
                    drink. All I could do was wet his lips with a handkerchief dipped in water. He died shortly after we
                    got him back to the treatment station. I wished I had eased his last moments with a drink, but I
                    would have felt responsible for his death. I still have nightmares about him.
            April 8, 1945, was a bad day for A Company, 82nd Medics. They set up a large canvas tent marked with
                    red crosses on its top as a treatment facility. A Luftwaffe pilot strafed the tent, killing both
                    Captain John E. Edge and his patient and wounding another medical officer and four technicians.
            Still in early April, as we penetrated deeper into 
                        Germany
                    , litter bearers brought into our station two wounded GIs whose jeep 
                  
                     31 In the early 1950s George Wenrick went to the 12th Armored Division
                            Association reunion in 
                                Chicago
                            . In an elevator he met Menzo Van Slyke. By this time George had a new face.
                            Neither man forgot this meeting, but it was another thirtyfive years before they met again.
                            In 1988 the 82nd Medics held their reunion in 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     . George
                            Wenrick and his wife, Sarah, attended our reunion, and he and Menzo met again. George came
                            because he wanted to thank Menzo, Hendry, Thomas, and the 82nd Medics for saving his life.
                            It was an emotional reunion.
               
                     had run over a land mine. Both were so badly hurt that I did
                    not immediately recognize my platoon leader, Lieutenant Joe Pittari, and his driver, motor pool
                    Staff Sergeant Fran Charpentier. Charpy had volunteered to drive Pittari, so Corporal Young once
                    more could have a few hours rest. Pittari died of his wounds, but Charpy recovered and lived another
                    fifty years.
            A task force of the 12th raced to the Danube and captured the bridge at Dillingen. Hellcats poured
                    over it and secured the ground on the other side. Our task force, situated a few miles south, was
                    not as fortunate. The Germans blew the bridge at Lauingen, and we had to wait for the engineers to
                    put in a prefabricated steel Bailey bridge.
            I was assigned to give medical aid to the engineers for a few hours. While walking along the river
                    bank, I spotted a strange object. I picked it up and hastily discarded it when I realized it was a
                    human ear and a small section of hairy scalp!
            I was relieved by one of the best combat medics I knew, Clarence Thornhill. He was a big, hulking
                    young man from 
                        Alabama
                    . He was fearless. We called him Churchill. He refused to crawl when lead was flying,
                    saying, "If God wanted me to crawl, he would have put scales on my belly." Shortly
                    after I left, an engineer was shot by a sniper on the opposite side of the river. Thornhill crawled
                    onto a tank to radio for help when the sniper put a bullet through Thornhill's helmet. I
                    sketched his sheet-draped body and helmet as it lay in the aid station.
            As this was happening, I had my own problem. The first thing we did upon entering a town was to order
                    all small arms to be turned in at a central spot. Fine hunting rifles and fowling pieces were later
                    smashed by a Sherman tank. This day, a small boy was carrying a shotgun to the collection point. He
                    had it over his shoulder, barrel down. It accidentally discharged, striking another boy about eight
                    or ten years old in the right leg. Luckily, the gun was loaded with small bird shot, not buck shot.
                    Hearing the shot, I ran out and carried the wounded lad in for treatment. The captain said we should
                    not treat him as this was a case of one civilian shooting another. He directed me to a hospital
                    located on a side street a few blocks down the street. I gave the lad a stick of Wrigleys Doublemint
                    chewing gum and he quieted down. I picked him up and started for the hospital. Glancing down a side
                    street, I saw a red cross on a flag flying in front of a building and walked to it. The ground was
                    covered with snow, and the stone steps were icy. The building entrance was one story up from the
                    street. As I carefully ascended, I paid no attention to what was above me until a pair of 
                        German
                     boots came into my line of sight. I looked up into the eyes of a 
                        German
                     soldier with his rifle at his side.
            Still thinking this must be the civilian hospital, I was taken by surprise. I asked the soldier to
                    bring his officer. He stepped inside and returned in a moment with a 
                        German
                     medical doctor who spoke 
                    
                  THE AUTHOR'S SKETCH OF A MEDIC KILLED IN ACTION
                  
                  Courtesy the author.
                English. I explained my mission, and he told me to bring the lad in; he would remove the
                    shot and bandage the leg. I followed him into a corridor and soon discovered wounded 
                        German
                     soldiers standing at each doorway. I knew right then that the wounded boy was my ticket
                    out of there. I followed the doctor to a small operating room where he removed the shot while I kept
                    the boy calm. It did not take long, although the lad began to cry. I sure did not want to walk the
                    gauntlet with a crying 
                        German
                     boy. I gave him another stick of gum; he quit crying; and with the 
                        German
                     doctor leading the way, we walked back down the corridor to the front door. By now my
                    presence must have been known to everybody, for the corridor was lined with 
                        German
                     wounded. I kept my head high, looked straight ahead, and walked out, negotiating the
                    slippery steps with deliberate care and walked to the main street of town. I turned the corner and
                    only then did my legs turn to rubber! I had blundered into the 
                        German
                     military hospital by mistake.
            That night Hooper and I were sent to an interrogation center in Dillingen, where a wounded 
                        German
                     soldier awaited evacuation to a hospital. We found our patient lying on a litter, fear
                    etched on his face. As we picked up the litter, one of the intelligence officers who had been
                    questioning the wounded man remarked, "I'd like to  shoot that son of a bitch." I thought to myself,
                    "Somebody beat you to him, don't you see?" Apparently the 
                        German
                     had not cooperated with his questioner. After we loaded him into the ambulance, I
                    shined my flashlight onto his face, and he smiled his thanks. He was just another wounded man, glad
                    the war was over for him. He was no threat to anyone.
            On April 12 Hooper and I were winding among some small hills in our ambulance. A jeep driver told us
                    a plane had been shot down ahead of us. Hoop and I raced past the line of vehicles and found one of
                    our Cub artillery spotter planes in a small meadow alongside the road. (You may remember that flying
                    a spotter plane was the duty I had asked for a year before.) A shell had hit the plane just behind
                    the observer, who received a sucking chest wound, and the pilot was also in pretty bad shape with
                    head wounds. We sprinkled the hole with sulfa powder, plugged the chest hole with vaselined gauze,
                    and taped it securely. We then treated the pilot's wounds and bandaged him. Both men
                    appeared to be survivors when we transferred them to an evacuation hospital ambulance, so I figured
                    we had saved their lives. In 1986, however, another artillery pilot, Pete du Pont, told me that both
                    had later died. Had someone been looking over me?
            
                    Dachau
                
            On April 26 strange people wearing ragged clothing began straggling to the 12th Division's
                    rear. They were obviously fleeing something. Up close we saw that they were emaciated; their bodies
                    were just skin over bone. They spoke in high-pitched, almost birdlike voices. They carried nothing.
                    They could hardly put one foot ahead of the other. Their only clothing was thin, striped rags
                    although the air was cold.
            Words cannot describe their eyes. They, too, had seen death daily, but not as we had. They had been
                    staring at their own deaths for years. The death they saw, however, was a light at the end of a very
                    dark tunnel.
            This was our first encounter with the 
                        German
                     concentration camps. The people we met were inmates who had escaped from a satellite of
                    the Dachau camp as the Germans retreated.32 We were not prepared for this. We
                    had seen death almost daily during the previous 
                  
                     32 Dachau, located about ten miles northwest of Munich, was one of the
                            first concentration camps established by Nazi Germany. It opened in March, 1933, and
                            originally housed political opponents of the Nazis and criminals. With the rise of
                            systematic persecution of Jews and the beginning of 
                                German
                             expansion, Dachau's inmate population swelled with Jewish prisoners
                            and those who resisted 
                                German
                             expansion. During the war, Dachau became an important source of slave labor,
                            especially in arms industries. Thirty-seven subsidiary camps, along with other smaller
                            installations, were built to house armaments workers. Toward the end of the war Dachau
                            received large numbers of inmates from other camps the Germans were forced to abandon as
                            they retreated. Plans were drawn up for the killing of all prisoners, but before they could
                            be carried out, elements of the American 7th Army began to overrun the Dachau
               
                     five months, but the dead up to now were mostly one or two at a
                    time. Even our bloodiest battle could not prepare us for Dachau. There we found hundreds of dead.
                    Some lay in grotesque piles, some neatly stacked like cordwood, others thrown helter skelter into a
                    pit.
            This was Hitler's "Final Solution," eliminate all of Europe's
                    Jews and anyone else who opposed Hitler. Words cannot describe what we saw nor the feelings of
                    revulsion we felt.
            Combat Medic Fred Santoro, of Sandusky, Ohio, said the task force he was supporting opened the gates
                    at a railroad siding that led into Dachau. He saw boxcars loaded with bodies.
            Ambulance driver Alan Starck from Darian, 
                        Illinois
                    , and his aid man, Pfc. Edmund Sorola from 
                  San
                            Antonio, Texas
               , arrived at
                    a locked gate. Starck opened it. He thought he was a liberator, the finest person in the world. He
                    was promptly ordered by a lieutenant to close that gate! Al's protests that these people
                    should not become "our captives" bounced off deaf ears.
            As I approached the camp, a building was burning inside an open gate. The 
                        German
                     guards had herded a bunch of captives into a barracks and set it on fire only minutes
                    before. Then the guards had vanished, blending into the civilian population. Some survivors told of
                    their mothers, fathers, and children being burned alive. An occasional moan from the pitiful pile of
                    scorched bodies and the twitch of an arm or leg testified that not all had met their final moment of
                    doom.
            The jumble of black, scorched bodies lying in the smoking embers contrasted with the hundreds of
                    white, naked bodies nearby. The Germans probably intended to dispose of these bodies in a nearby
                    crematorium. A horse-drawn wagon, minus the horse, stood partially loaded alongside a stack of
                    bodies. Had a guard run off with the horse?
            The next day Pfc. Al Pheterson, of 
                  Rochester, New York
               , who had been in the ASTP with me,
                    entered that same gate. Al had a camera. He knew that if he asked an officer for permission to take
                    pictures, he would be told, "No," so he just took pictures without asking. Later
                    he developed them himself at a 
                        German
                     photo lab. He brought the negatives back home with him. I met him on June 19, 1997, at
                    our annual reunion in 
                        Louisville
                    . He asked me if I would like to see his scrapbook. I did. There were the scenes I had
                    been trying to bury for fifty-two years. The burned bodies. The dead lying in the area.
            The events in the following paragraphs occurred after we passed through, but the stories were told
                    around the division.
            
               camps. The main camp was liberated on April 29, 
                            Israel
                         Gutman, ed., Encylopedia of the Holocaust (4 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1990), I, 339–43. See also Paul Berben, Dachou,
                        1933–1945: The Official History (
                            London
                        , 1975); Feig Konnilyn, Hitler's Death Camps (
                            New York
                        , 1981); Marcus J. Smith, Dachau: The Harrowing of Hell
                        (Albouquerque, N. M., 1972).
            
            
            
               BURNED BODIES LAID OUT FOR BURIAL AND GERMAN
                            CIVILIANS AT DACHAU
               
               Photograph by Al Pheterson. Courtesy Al Pheterson and the author.
            
            
               VICTIMS OF DACHAU
               
               Photograph by Al Pheterson.
            
            
            
               VICTIM OF DACHAU
               
               Photograph by the author.
            
            
               BURNED BODIES IN THE ASHES OF A BURNED-OUT BUILDING AT DACHAU
               
               Photograph by Al Pheterson. Courtesy Al Pheterson and the author.
            
            
            The administrators of the Landsberg camp had fled. A search team, however, soon found the camp
                    commandant and brought him back. He said he had been responsible only for what happened outside of
                    the enclosure. He blamed a doctor as the real culprit.
            Colonel Edward Seiller, the head of the 12th Armored Division military government team rounded up a
                    bunch of local civilians and brought them into the camp. They, of course, protested their ignorance
                    of what had gone on inside the camp. Seiller asked them why they could not smell the camp as we
                    could. Did these "good Germans" feel the same horror and revulsion that swept
                    through us? We wondered.
            Seiller then produced the camp commandant, stood him among the partially burned corpses, and told the
                    Germans that this man was responsible for the deaths.33
            
            The civilians, seeing our strength and feeling that Hitler's dream of a "Thousand
                    Years of Enlightenment" was now over, made quite a show of wanting to kill the camp
                    commandant right on the spot. What else should we have expected?34
            
            Once we crossed the Rhine, the division was covering a wide front. There were many roads heading east
                    and south, so they split the combat commands into task forces, usually a company each of infantry,
                    tanks, and artillery. These task forces were then assigned an objective and a route and were under
                    the command of the ranking officer. Usually each task force had an ambulance attached to it. We
                    stayed with the task force as much as possible but had to leave it occasionally to take wounded back
                    to the rear.
            
                    I Find My Storch
                
            May 1 found us on the autobahn south of Munich. As we drove alongside a 
                        German
                     airfield, I was amazed to see hundreds of airplanes of all types sitting on the ground.
                    The task force stopped as the lead tank met some resistance. Huge snowflakes drifted gently down
                    upon everything, making a fairyland of the war zone. I enjoyed the enchanting moment.
            Then, faintly through the snow, I saw a red cross on an airplane. My brain could not believe what my
                    eyes were telling it. There was a 
                        German
                     ambulance plane, the Feisler Storch. At last Major Pennock and Pfc. Rice would have
                    their aerial ambulance. I left Hooper 
                  
                     33 Bradstreet, Hellcats, 115.
                  
                     34 In 1986, at the 12th ADA Reunion aboard the Hotel Queen Mary,
                                    
                        Long Beach, California
                     , I met Harold Gordon and his wife of
                            Salinas, 
                                California
                            . The 12th had liberated Harold while he was a captive of the Nazis at the
                            Landsberg camp. He addressed the assembled Hellcats and thanked us for the last forty-one
                            years of his life. Harold has since written a book about his life in a concentration camp,
                            his struggle to get himself and his father to the 
                                United States
                            , and his meeting with his wife. Harold Gordon, The Last Sunrise, a
                                True Story: Biography of a Ten-Year-Old Boy in Nazi Concentration Camps during World War
                                II (Salinas, Calif., 1989).
               
                     in the ambulance and ran to the plane. I stuck my bare hand
                    under the cowling and felt the warm cylinders. It had been flown within the past half hour. I
                    crawled up into the fuselage, noted a stretcher in place behind the pilot's seat, and sat
                    down. As I studied the instruments, I saw the gas gauge read empty. That was why the pilot did not
                    fly it away.
            My concentration was broken by a strange noise. Glancing out the left window, a Sherman tank was
                    roaring down on me. It was crushing the tails of the planes into the mud. I jumped out and tried to
                    stop the tank driver. I was yelling at the wind. He could not hear me. The tank ran over the
                    Storch's tail, and I watched the steel tubes bend, then poke through torn fabric. Tank
                    treads flattened the aft of the plane into instant junk. There went my dream of an aerial ambulance.
                    It made no practical difference, for our fighting days were numbered and we would evacuate just a
                    few wounded in the following days.
            
               YOUNT GERMAN SOLDIERS NEAR THE END OF THE WAR
               
               Photograph by Robert Spring. Courtesy the author.
            
            
            
                    Werner von Braun
                
            On May 2 Colonel Frederick P. Fields, 714th Tank Battalion, commanding Task Force Fields of the 12th
                    was about to move out of Benediktbueren, Bavaria, when a gray jeep slid to a stop in the foot of
                    snow beside him. He looked down at a 
                        United States
                     Navy captain and his pea-jacketed driver. Our navy? In southern 
                        Germany
                    ? The captain said he needed a battalion of tanks and a battalion of infantry to capture
                    and secure a 
                        German
                     supersonic wind tunnel guarded by an SS unit up in the mountains.
            When Fields said he did not have a force that large, the captain showed him some impressive letters
                    signed by President Roosevelt, Admiral Ernest King, General George Marshall, Generals Eisenhower and
                    A. M. Patch, each requesting that all possible aid be given to the captain.
            Fields assigned him one platoon of tanks and one platoon of infantry, requesting they keep in radio
                    contact with him. He then left as he had been assigned to capture Innsbruck, 
                        Austria
                    . He lost radio contact with his splinter group soon after. Later, Fields ran into a
                    blown bridge that he could not get around, and as he had no bridge building equipment with him, he
                    backtracked into Kochel.
            There on the veranda of a hotel was the navy captain, talking to a civilian with a broken arm. The
                    captain introduced Fields to Dr. Werner von Braun. Von Braun showed Fields his wind tunnel, but
                    Fields was not very impressed. He told me a few years before he died that it looked like a lot of
                    junk to him. But he did remember that von Braun complained loudly that someone had stolen his
                    bicycle!
            That was how the men of the 12th happened to capture the rocket scientist who decades later would
                    help the 
                        United States
                     place men on the moon. He was just one of the estimated eight thousand Germans taken
                    prisoner that day by the 12th.35
            
            
                    Overtime
                
            Did you know that World War II went into overtime? It did for the 12th.36 This
                    story features Captain John C. Lee, Jr., Lieutenant Harry Basse, two tank crews from the 23rd Tank
                    Battalion, and four infantrymen.
            Captain Lee was the commanding officer of B Company, 23rd Tank Battalion. His unit stopped at
                    Kufstein, where a captured 
                        German
                     major told Lee several important French people were captives in Castle Itter near
                    Worgl, 
                        Austria
                    . Lee and the 
                        German
                     left in a jeep and approached Worgl under a flag of truce. The 
                        German
                     soon convinced the commandant in Worgl that the war was over, many 
                  
                     35 Personal conversation with Colonel Frederick P. Fields. His story
                            is documented in Bradstreet, Hellcats, 175.
                  
                     36 Bradstreet, Hellcats, 53, 175.
               
                     American tanks were coming, and this was the time to surrender.
                    Lee decided to rescue the people in Castle Itter.
            The duo returned to Kufstein, crawled into Lee's tank, "Besotten Jinny,"
                    and led six other tanks and a half-dozen infantrymen toward Worgl. 
                        German
                     soldiers surrendered to them, and Lee's men found explosives wired to the
                    bridge into town. The prisoners defused the explosives and threw them into the river below.
            "Besotten Jinny" and Lieutenant Basse's "Boche Buster"
                    crossed the quivering bridge. They decided the engineers would have to reinforce it before another
                    tank could pass over. Lee took four infantrymen atop his two-tank task force and headed into Worgl.
                    The rest of his troops returned to notify the engineers of the bridge.
            Once in town, Lee left "Boche Buster" and three infantrymen in command of Tech
                    Sergeant William Elliot to secure the town. Lee and his tank crew, Basse, the 
                        German
                     major, and the remaining infantryman took off in "Besotten Jinny" for
                    Castle Itter.
            "Boche Buster" was to relay radio messages between "Besotten
                    Jinny" and headquarters back in Kufstein. The infantryman led the way around the curving
                    mountain road. He discovered that the SS had set up a roadblock just short of the castle. Rather
                    than sit and fight it out, Lee decided to charge the roadblock. Firing his guns to keep the 
                        German
                     defenders' heads down, he ran the gauntlet of fire and sped up the road.
                    "Besotten Jinny" slid to a stop in the driveway of the castle, blocking the
                    entrance.
            An eighty-eight millimeter gun concealed in the brush along the mountainside fired at the tank. Lee
                    fired back. "Besotten Jinny" was hit six times. The last shell hit the gas tank
                    and flames erupted. As the crew bailed out of the burning tank, they grabbed the thirty-caliber
                    machine gun and some ammunition. A hail of SS bullets followed the men as they dashed to the castle
                    gate. It opened at once, and they felt safe behind those stone walls.
            Then they met the "important people" they had come to rescue. There were two former
                    French premiers, Edouard Daladier and Paul Reynaud; Madam Alfred Cailliau, a sister of Charles de
                    Gaulle; French Generals Leon Jouhax, Maxime Weygand, and Maurice Gustave Gamelin; Madam Weygand;
                    former French minister M. Caillaux; Jean Borotra, tennis star and French minister of sports and
                    Madam Borotra; French fascist Colonel de la Roehe; Michel Clemenceau, son of the French leader
                    during World War I, and a few others who were lesser known.
            To this impressive list must be added some unnamed but very important people. There was a second 
                        German
                     major and his dozen Wehrmacht soldiers who had guarded these prisoners for many months.
                    They had surrendered to the inmates just before the American tank arrived at the castle gate. These 
                        German
                     soldiers were afraid the SS would now kill them for not continuing to fight, so they
                    volunteered to help fight off the SS that were attacking the castle  from all sides. Captain Lee immediately gave the Germans their rifles
                    and assigned them to windows where they began to take a toll on their former brothers-in-arms.
            It was a strange alliance of American, French, and 
                        German
                     peoples: soldiers, diplomats, politicians, and ordinary citizens, fighting together in
                    common defense against a hated, vicious, and unscrupulous enemy.
            That night the battle tapered off, and little firing took place. With the dawn the SS moved in. They
                    were crack shots, and the number of wounded within the castle began to mount. The ladies within
                    tended to the wounded and tried to rouse someone at the telephone exchange in Worgl. As the morning
                    wore on, the situation became truly serious. Their only link to the outside world was that one
                    telephone line into the castle, but no one in Worgl was answering.
            When things looked bad, Jean Borotra volunteered to jump over the castle wall, run forty yards across
                    an exposed field to the woods, and dash through the mountain pass to contact the troops in Worgl.
                    Lee vetoed the plan, saying it was suicide.
            Half an hour later, however, their ammunition was low; there were more wounded; and the 
                        German
                     major who had led them to the castle had been shot in the head and killed as he fought
                    alongside Lieutenant Basse. Lee concluded that they might all be annihilated if help did not arrive
                    soon. So Borotra took off.
            As Borotra disappeared over the wall, the women yelled that someone in Worgl had opened the telephone
                    line. They would be rescued after all! But before they could utter a word, the line went dead.
                    Borotra's dash was not suicide, for he was reported to be with the rest of the released
                    captives that night at a hotel on the shore of Lake Constance where they were welcomed back by
                    General Jean de Lattre de Tassigny.37
            
            That little coalition within Castle Itter had held off the SS for sixteen hours before they saw
                    Sherman tanks working their way up the road. Lee assumed the tankers coming up the road did not know
                    who was in the castle. But he knew his tankers would see the burnedout hulk of the
                    "Besotten Jinny" and, assuming the castle was still a 
                        German
                     stronghold, simply blast away at him.
            Lee and General Weygand teamed up on the thirty-caliber machine gun and opened fire into the woods
                    far ahead of the lead tank. This message was understood. Sergeant Elliot in the lead tank had his
                    ninety-millimeter gun trained on the castle when he recognized the sound of the American machine gun
                    and decided it was a signal instead of a threat.
            The relief column, assisted by men from the 36th Infantry Division, broke through at 3:00 p.m. on May
                    5. They rounded up the surviving SS and took them prisoner. Lee and his men returned to 
                  
                     37
                            ibid., 122.
               
                     Kufstein to learn that the Germans had signed a surrender
                    document and that the war was to end at noon on May 5. These men of the 12th had gone into
                    "overtime" by three hours!
            This was the last combat sortie on the southern front of the European theater in World War II.
            
                    Peace
                
            What a time. Hoop and I sat down and tried to figure how many days we had spent behind the 
                        German
                     lines. We agreed that it was up to thirty, but from there on our memories differed. But
                    we had survived. We had to drink to that! (Just about everybody drank. Some drank to forget what
                    they had seen, and some drank to forget what they had done. Some fellows said only a fool had a
                    hangover: you should never sober up in the first place!) We quickly worked our way through that
                    phase of life and settled down to occupation duty in a small town of Sneidheim, just north of
                    Heidenheim.
            Late that summer I was notified that I had qualified for the Combat Medic Badge, which later led to
                    my being awarded a Bronze Star by direction of President John F. Kennedy.
            The 12th was then broken up, and the GIs sent to various military outfits. I went to the 47th Medical
                    Battalion of the 1st Armored Division, then based at Mannheim, 
                        Germany
                    . Most of the men of the 1st had seen combat in North Africa and 
                        Italy
                     and in the invasion of southern 
                        France
                    . They had earned their trip home and left early that summer. I spent a couple of months
                    in Idstein before moving to Bensheim.
            My turn to go home came in February. I arrived in Antwerp, 
                        Belgium
                    , ready to board a ship when they declared me "essential." I had to
                    work at the dispensary at the port until another surgical technician came through with fewer points.
                    After a delay of a couple of weeks, I boarded the Robin Victory bound for 
                        New York
                    . I was now a part of the three-man medical staff of the Robin. After
                    a stormy crossing, we passed the Statue of Liberty and disembarked at 
                  Hoboken, New
                    Jersey
               . After a fast train ride to Fort Dix, I was informed that they would fly
                    me to 
                        California
                     that night on an Air Transport Command DC-4. During the last days in the Army, I
                    finally got to flyas a passenger. That was okay with me. I was discharged on March 23, 1946, and
                    spent the day riding a bus back to Van Nuys, 
                        California
                    . I returned to Indiana the next week.
            
                    Looking Back
                
            December, 1997, will mark the fifty-fifth anniversary of my induction into the Army. Looking back, it
                    seems as though I am watching a young man I used to know go off to war. I had no idea when I left
                    home that I would share experiences that would last a lifetime. I am amazed at the depth of feelings
                    born of those days in combat  For the first thirty-five years
                    after the war, I tried desperately to forget. I was only partially successful; there was much that
                    refused to be forgotten. When I was contacted in 1980 to attend a reunion of the 82nd Medics, I had
                    no interest in stirring up old memories. My wife Norma, however, wanted to meet the men I had
                    mentioned over the years. We went. I found it to be good therapy. I learned that I had handled
                    things pretty well by myself, although not as well as Tom Rhodes and Art Long, who cannot recall
                    much about being prisoners of war. I met once again Truman Stivers; Max Eagelfeld, a genius who
                    could not dig his own foxhole; Eddie Sorola; Sergeant Curtiss Slaughter, who was never born but
                    quarried from solid granite; and others. Many more are simply among the missing.
            At our first reunion I asked one of my old sergeants why he had sent Hooper and me out on what looked
                    like suicide missions, those days with the reconnaissance troopers when we had to fend for ourselves
                    in enemy-infested territory. His answer was simple: you kept coming back!
         
         
         
            "It would break my heart to see you behind a counter!" Business and Reform at L.
                    S. Ayres & Company in the Early Twentieth Century
            
                    Richard Lindstrom
                    *
                
            Mrs. Durland was worried. Although she recognized the precarious financial situation created by the
                    loss of her husband's job as an engineer, she still found it difficult to accept that her
                    youngest child would have to leave Indiana University and work for a living. Her daughter, Grace,
                    managed to face the situation more optimistically. Although disappointed, she returned bravely from 
                        Bloomington
                     to her parents' home in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and resolved to find a job. Deciding that she was suited for a career in sales, Grace
                    announced to her parents that she would seek a job at Shipley's, a large downtown
                    department store. Mrs. Durland found that prospect frightening and told Grace, "It would
                    break my heart to see you behind a counter!" Mrs. Durland feared that working at
                    Shipley's would place Grace in an undignified and servile position that would force her to
                    associate with salesgirls of questionable morality.1
            
            Brushing aside her mother's concerns, Grace secured a job at Shipley's through the
                    assistance of her friend Irene Kirby, whose family's relative poverty had forced her to
                    seek a job in a department store immediately after high school graduation. Besides showing Grace the
                    world of the department store, Irene introduced her to the social world populated by her lover,
                    Tommy Kemp, a wealthy-and married-manufacturer. At a party at Kemp's house Grace met Ward
                    Sutton, a brilliant and kind engineer. Sutton was married to a feminist author who claimed to
                    disdain conventional marriage and morals. He quickly fell in love with the honest and beautiful
                    Grace, a situation that presented her with a conflict between the values she learned from her
                    parents and her desires for Sutton. Convinced that Sutton's wife would
                    "free" him if he fell in love, Grace and Ward began a romantic relationship. Of
                    course, Mrs. Sutton's free-love convictions failed her when it came to her own family, and
                    she refused to divorce her husband and allow him to marry Grace. Following this devastating turn of
                    events, Grace fled to a new position as the manager of 
                  
                     * Richard Lindstrom is a Ph.D. student in history at Purdue
                            University, West 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, where he studies twentieth century 
                                United States
                             social and labor history.
                  
                     1 Meredith Nicholson, Broken Barriers (
                                New York
                            , 1922), 1–11.
               
                     a home for unmarried department store clerks that a wealthy
                    friend, Mrs. Reynolds, had established in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Fortunately for Grace and Ward Sutton, Sutton's first wife soon died, leaving
                    the two free to marry. In a final fortunate turn, Grace's father revived his own career and
                    the family's fortunes through the assistance of Sutton, who used his expertise as a
                    mechanical engineer to perfect Mr. Durland's new invention.2
            
            Grace Durland, the heroine of Meredith Nicholson's 1922 novel Broken
                    Barriers, represents a common image of young urban working women in the early twentieth
                    century. Forced into the workplace by financial necessity, Grace finds both independence and
                    temptation. If she avoids falling into moral and social ruin, she does so only by having the good
                    fortune to fall in love with a man possessing the financial resources and moral sturdiness to marry
                    her. While Nicholson's resolution of Grace's moral and financial dilemmas might
                    seem a bit fantastic, Broken Barriers nevertheless reflected the concerns of many
                    middle-class Americans about the young women working in the department stores of America's
                    large cities during this period. How would young and inexperienced girls like Grace Durland be able
                    to resist the temptations that their newfound financial and social independence offered them? What
                    would happen to them if they became involved with men who were less sincere and scrupulous than Ward
                    Sutton? Did the growth of retail districts and of department stores like the fictional
                    Shipley's contribute to the social problems of "fallen" women and
                    dissipated youth?
            Since they first began appearing in the 1850s and 1860s, giant department stores have fascinated
                    writers, historians, and social critics. Observers from Emile Zola to such contemporary historians
                    as William Leach and Susan Porter Benson have examined the interaction among different social and
                    cultural groups within the "palaces of consumption" erected by entrepreneurs like
                    Marshall Field in 
                        Chicago
                    , A. T. Stewart in 
                        New York
                    , and John Wanamaker in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Many scholars have concentrated on the economic history of these stores and the
                    entrepreneurs who built them or on the complex interaction among stores, customers, and employees
                    that helped create middle-class cultures of consumption. Other historians have examined the way that
                    department stores operated as businesses where goods-in the form of sales-were produced. These
                    scholars have explored employers' efforts to minimize the social distance between
                    middle-class consumers and the working-class "girls" who served them. They have
                    also untangled the complex gender relationships that developed between male managers and their
                    female employees and customers.3
            
            
               
                  2
                        Ibid., 12–402.
               
                  3 Emile Zola, Ladies' Delight, trans. April
                        Fitzlyon, (
                            London
                        , 1957). Business histories of department stores and their owners include Ralph M.
                        Hower, History of Macy's of 
                                New York
                            , 1858–1919: Chapters in the Evolution of the Department
                    Store
               
            
            
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                    's L. S. Ayres and Company, perhaps the model for Nicholson's
                    fictional Shipley's, represented an important component of the city's central
                    retail district from its opening in the 1870s until the closing of the company's downtown
                    store in 1992. Ayres experienced a business history very similar to those of the more famous stores
                    of 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        New York
                    , and Ayres employed labor policies quite similar to those used by other large stores.
                    As such, the history of Ayres presents an opportunity to examine the interaction among customers,
                    clerks, and managers in a setting outside the familiar locales of 
                  New York, Boston
               , and 
                        Chicago
                    . Company records provide insight into the ways that department store executives in 
                        Indianapolis
                     manipulated ideals of social division to create a store that would appeal to the
                    middle-and upper-class clientele they cultivated. Because Ayres employed a number of black men and
                    women, its records offer a means of exploring the role that race played in the world of the
                    department store. Most importantly, the activities of reform organizations like the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA) demonstrate the connections between
                    business and reform in early twentieth-century 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            From the store's founding to 1950, L. S. Ayres and Company developed a variety of employee
                    training and welfare programs. Through these programs, Ayres executives promoted a particular
                    understanding of proper race, class, and gender roles in an effort to eliminate the unease created
                    by the presence of women like Grace Durland in the store's work force. In their attempt to
                    build a larger store and sell more material goods, Ayres executives emphasized a familiar, yet
                    hierarchical, relationship between customer and salesperson. Among the most important goods sold by
                    L. S. Ayres and Company, therefore, were particular conceptions of class, race, and gender. 
                    
                  (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1943); Robert W. Twyman, History of Marshall Field
                                & Co., 1852–1906 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1954); Henry C. Classen, "T. C. Power and Bro.: The Rise of a Small
                            Western Department Store, 1870–1902," Business History
                                Review, LXVI (Winter, 1992), 671–722; Michael B. Miller, The Bon Marche: Bourgeois Culture and the Department Store, 1869–1920 (
                                Princeton
                            , N. J., 1981). A work that examines the founding, growth, and management of a
                            particular department store in light of the particular ethnic makeup of a community is June
                            Webb-Vignery, Jacome's Department Store: Business and Culture in
                                        
                           Tucson, Arizona
                        , 1896–1980 (
                                New York
                            , 1989). A work of sociology that examines the role of women managers in the
                            development of Macy's in 
                                New York
                             and Filene's in 
                                Boston
                             is Judy K. Miller, "Hidden Within: Women's Managerial Role in
                            the Rise and Development of Two Major 
                                United States
                             Department Stores, 1870–1920" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                            University of 
                        Tennessee, Knoxville
                     , 1980). For histories of department stores in
                            the context of the growth of urban society and consumer culture, see Gunther Barth, City People: The Rise of Modern City Culture in NineteenthCentury America (
                                New York
                            , 1980); William Leach, Land of Desire: Merchants, Power, and the
                                Rise of a New American Culture (
                                New York
                            , 1993). Works that discuss the department store within the context of class
                            interaction, labor history, and women's history include Kathy L. Peiss, Cheap Amusements: Working Women and Leisure in Turn-of-the-Century 
                                    New York
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1986); Elaine Abelson, When Ladies Go A-Thieuing: Middle-Class
                                Shoplifters in the Victorian Department Store (
                                New York
                            , 1989); Susan Porter Benson, Counter Cultures: Saleswomen,
                                Managers, and Customers in American Department Stores, 1890–1940 (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1988).
                While the various employee training and welfare programs developed at Ayres certainly were
                    intended to promote discipline, improve sales technique, and develop a loyal work force, Ayres also
                    used such programs to make the store into an environment that separated production from consumption,
                    enforced social distance between black and white people, and reinforced a patriarchal gender ideal.
            Importantly, these efforts to promote particular social identities moved beyond the world of work and
                    into the hours employees spent away from their jobs and beyond the offices of Ayres executives.
                    Organizations like the 
                        Indianapolis
                     YWCA, working with store executives, offered programs that reinforced training efforts
                    initiated within the store. That the attempts of Ayres executives to regularize and define class,
                    gender, and race relations found assistance and parallels in the city's reform movement
                    reveals important connections among business, reform, and the creation of social status in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the first part of the twentieth century. In meeting the concerns of social
                    critics like Meredith Nicholson, Ayres managed to serve both ideals of social reform and perceptions
                    of business interest. Ayres executives' attempts to create economic growth by meeting the
                    expectations of their customers reveal the fluid boundaries between business interest and social
                    reform in the first decades of the twentieth century.
            The growth of L. S. Ayres and Company followed a trajectory similar to that of retail dry goods
                    businesses like A. T. Stewart's in 
                        New York
                     and John Wanamaker's in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , small establishments that grew into giant urban centers of consumption. During the
                    1850s and 1860s these stores began to emphasize advertising, low prices, easy returns, and wide
                    selections of goods. Retailers discovered that shopping itself could become an event and moved out
                    of their cramped, dark quarters and into ornate and elaborate "palaces of
                    consumption" that emphasized elaborate displays and enticing bargains. These huge stores
                    also offered female shoppers many amenities to entice them into the store. Marshall Field's
                    downtown 
                        Chicago
                     store, for example, was valued in 1907 at eight million dollars and covered thirty-five
                    acres of floor space, had a large staff of greeters, maintained a daycare center for the children of
                    shoppers, and offered free delivery of all purchases. In order to attract customers to his
                    "New Kind of Store" in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , John Wanamaker staged free exhibitions of French painting; he claimed that his store
                    became a "vast public museu[m] … reaching a larger number than many of the
                    museums owned and controlled by the city or state."4
            
            With their wide array of services, these stores required large staffs and consumed a great deal of
                    money in overhead costs. Macy's, 
                  
                     4 Twyman, History of Marshall Field & Co.,
                            123–33, 159; John Wanamaker Company, Golden Book of the Wanamaker
                                Stores (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1911), 249. For histories of the growth and development of department stores,
                            see Leach, Land of Desire; Benson, Counter Cultures,
                            especially chapter 1; Miller, The Bon Marche.
                  
               
                     which maintained buying offices in 
                  Paris, London
               ,
                    Belfast, and Berlin, had 1,500 employees in 1888. By 1922 this number had grown to 5,000
                    "regular" employees staffing 118 departments; at Christmas, Macy's hired
                    2,000 more "extras." Marshall Field employed 300 women as "sewing
                    girls" during the 1880s. Employers, needing high-volume sales to offset the costs of
                    maintaining such large staffs, saw that sufficient profits could be made only by developing an
                    efficient and persuasive sales force. Beginning in the early twentieth century, and flourishing in
                    the 1920s, many sales manuals, retailing schools, and in-store training programs appeared to address
                    this problem. For example, William Amelius Corboin, a former instructor in salesmanship at
                    Wanamaker's, Strawbridge and Clothier's, and Gimbel Brothers, in 1906 published
                        Principles of Salesmanship. The book offered insights into the personal
                    virtues and psychological appeals that would help increase sales. The Wanamaker stores went so far
                    as to open a "John Wanamaker Commercial Institute" and an "American
                    University of Trade and Applied Commerce," schools that promised to prepare young workers
                    "to fill honorable positions in life and thereby increase personal earning
                        power."5
            
            L. S. Ayres and Company was founded in 1872. Lyman S. Ayres, born in 
                  Oswego, New
                    York
               , on September 24, 1824, owned small stores in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        New York
                     before buying an interest in the "Trade Palace," an 
                        Indianapolis
                     dry goods establishment, in 1872. At first Ayres remained in 
                        New York
                     as the company's eastern buyer. By 1874 Ayres had bought out his partners and
                    moved to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the Trade Palace-soon renamed L. S. Ayres and Company-under his control. Following
                    methods of retailing similar to those that had helped other department stores grow, Ayres steadily
                    expanded his business. In 1874 L. S. Ayres was a small establishment that offered dry goods, shawls,
                    cloaks, suits, furs, dressmaking, and millinery. By 1883 the firm employed sixty people in eleven
                    departments. A move in 1905 to a new eight-story building with six elevators, 250 feet of show
                    windows, a soda fountain, a grillroom and tearoom, and a bargain basement made Ayres one of the
                    largest retail establishments in the city.6
            
            
               
                  5 Twyman, History of Marshall Field & Co., 69;
                        Edward Hungerford, The Romance of the Great Store (
                            New York
                        , 1922), 31,116,156, 202; William Amelius Corboin, The Principles of
                            Salesmanship, Department and System (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1906), 24–38, 191–96. A vast literature of training and
                        service manuals, efficiency surveys, and organizational aids exists. See, for example, Ada
                        Lillian Bush, The Education of a Retail Sales Force (
                            United States
                         Department of Commerce Trade Information Bulletin No. 303; 
                            Washington
                        , 1924); Arthur Brewster Emmons, Health Control in Mercantile Life (
                            New York
                        , 1926); National Retail Dry Goods Association, Want Slip Policies and
                            Systems in Department Stores (
                            New York
                        , 1936); Helen Baker, Personnel Programs in Department Stores (
                            Princeton
                        , N.J., 1936).
               
                  6 L. S. Ayres & Co., Publicity Division," undated
                        document, L. S. Ayres & Company Records, 1872–1992 (Indiana Historical
                        Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ), box 5, folder 9 (L. S. Ayres & Company Records, 1872–1992,
                        hereafter cited as Ayres Records); receipt, circa 1874, Ayres Records, box 1, folder 3;
                        "1883," Ayres Records, box 1, folder 11; L. S. Ayres & Company, We Tell Our Story (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1972), 3–10.
            
            
            Continued expansion of store facilities and services in the early twentieth century brought fleets of
                    delivery trucks, affiliation with the 
                        Boston
                    -based Retail Research Association, and an arrangement with a number of other large
                    stores that offered access to overseas fashion markets. Ayres continued its expansion until by 1929
                    the store occupied one hundred times its original space at the Trade Palace. By 1931 Ayres had 1,400
                    employees, a number that increased to an annual average of 2,600 by 1943. Ayres continued as a
                    profitable corporation into the 1950s, enjoying annual net profits in excess of $900,000
                    through the late 1940s and early 1950s. The 1950s brought expansion away from the downtown store and
                    into suburban malls. Ayres grew aggressively during the next two decades; it opened several branch
                    stores and a series of discount outlets called "Ayr-Ways." In 1972 the Ayres
                    corporation was sold to the Associated Dry Goods Corporation, a chain that controlled various
                    department store groups. 
                  L. S. AYRES BUILDING ON WASHINGTON STREET, 1875
                  Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                             (Neg. no. C7616).
               
                    
                    
                  DELIVERY MEN (CIRCA.
                            1920)
                  Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                             (Neg. no. C7615).
               
                    
                  MARKING ROOM, 1929
                  Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                             (Neg. no. C7617).
               
                     Since then, Ayres has passed through several owners and sold
                    most of its Ayr-Way stores to Target Stores. In 1992 the company closed its downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                     store, which had been losing millions of dollars a year.7
            
            The rapid growth that L. S. Ayres and Company experienced at the end of the nineteenth century and
                    beginning of the twentieth century required a number of adjustments in the store's labor
                    relations policies. With a vastly expanded sales force, store executives had to maintain discipline,
                    ensure proper service to customers, promote increased sales, and cultivate employee loyalty. In the
                    first decade of the twentieth century, Ayres issued a set of store rules for its employees that
                    established such basic guidelines as where and when to enter the store and at what time lunch breaks
                    would be permitted. These rules also prohibited "reading, eating, chewing gum or tobacco,
                    cleaning finger nails, or dressing hair … outside their proper places." The
                    store set out basic rules for customer relations, rules demanding that employees "wait upon
                    customers pleasantly; never misrepresent anything … [and] answer all questions politely
                    and truthfully." Following such principles, the store promised workers, "will help
                    your rates." Employees were also required to "instruct, assist and encourage all
                    new clerks in every possible way."8
            
            As early as the 1910s, the store moved beyond these simple admonitions to workers and established a
                    formal training department. In 1919 that department came under the control of Eunice Johnson, who
                    had been an 
                        Indianapolis
                     teacher before attending the Prince School of Retailing at Simmons College in 
                        Boston
                    . Under her direction, the training department by the early 1930s conducted a week-long
                    initial training program for new employees that included instruction in such subjects as store rules
                    and organization and the store selling system, as well as a tour of the store's facilities.
                    The department promoted continuing education and sales efficiency through formal classes on such
                    topics as the history and uses of lace and the prevention of breakage and through storewide sales
                    competitions. One such competition held during the 1920s featured a flyer made to look like the
                    front page of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star and filled with stories on the baseball "teams" managed by store
                    executives competing for a turkey "victory dinner." The training department 
                  
                     7 "1914," Ayres Records, box 1, folder 41;
                            "Harrodian Gazette," 1926, Ayres Records, box 1, folder 53; L. S. Ayres
                            & Company, We Tell Our Story, 17; Ayrograms,
                            August, 1931, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 7; "Ayres Statisticklers of
                            1943," Ayres Records, box 2, folder 13; L. S. Ayres & Company, Ayres (L. S.) and Company Annual Reports, 1946–1950 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950); L. S. Ayres & Company, Ayres (L. S.) and Company Annual
                            Reports, 1952–1955 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1955); "L. S. Ayres and Company, Merchandising vision,
                            civic-mindedness, service integrity and quality," 1981, Ayres Records, box 5,
                            folder 3. The space formerly occupied by Ayres now contains the Circle City Center
                            development.
                  
                     8 "Store Rules," booklet, circa 1900, Ayres Records,
                            box 28, folder 2.
               
                     also promoted loyalty and interest in the store by sponsoring
                    parties for the workers from different departments.9
            
            The training department used Ayrograms, an employee magazine published during the
                    1920s, 1930s, and 1940s, to help these efforts to increase the sales ability of Ayres employees.
                    Professing a "belief that the greater the spirit of comradeship the better we shall work
                    together for our common interest-a greater L. S. Ayres & Company," and appearing at
                    least monthly except during the worst years of the depression, Ayrograms offered
                    employees a mixture of advice on selling, inside information on the store, articles on the
                    manufacture and history of goods, feature stories on executives and non-selling employees, and store
                    gossip. The magazine also sponsored suggestion contests on such subjects as "How Can
                    Customers Be Encouraged to Do Their Christmas Shopping Early?" and prizes for those who
                    recommended friends for employment by Ayres. Usually written in an informal, friendly manner,
                    Ayrograms sought to encourage a spirit of cooperation and loyalty that would make employees more
                    willing to promote their store and its sales.10
            
            Ayres used employee welfare and recreational programs to complement in-store training efforts. The
                    first employee welfare programs actually appeared at Ayres before any sort of elaborate system of
                    training. Company officials contended that welfare programs began in 1874, the first year that Lyman
                    S. Ayres actually lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and controlled the store at the Trade Palace. At Thanksgiving, according to store
                    legend, L. S. Ayres gave each employee who was the head of a household a stuffed turkey. As turkey
                    prices, delivery costs, and store staff grew, this tradition was replaced by the custom of giving
                    each employee a silver dollar as a reminder of the company's generosity. The tradition of
                    the "turkey dollar" finally ended in 1934, when the demands of the depression
                    convinced employees that a donation of five hundred dollars to the Ayres Samaritan Fund was a more
                    useful contribution to employee welfare than a silver dollar.11
            
            Beyond the economically meaningless custom of the "turkey dollar," Ayres initiated
                    a number of other programs that promoted employee welfare in the late nineteenth and early twentieth
                    centuries. Beginning in 1894, Ayres employees were given half-holidays 
                  
                     9 Clipping, 1947, of a story on training director Eunice Johnson,
                            Ayres Records, box 29, folder 19; Baker, Personnel Programs, 21; sales
                            promotion flyer, undated [1920s], Ayres Records, box 2, folder 8. Another example of such
                            promotions can be found in Ayrograms, September 13, 1929, Ayres Records,
                            box 7, folder 5. For examples of training classes, see Ayrograms,
                            November, 1920, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 2; ibid., March 22, 1929,
                            Ayres Records, box 7, folder 5.
                  
                     10
                            Ayrograms, November, 1931, Ayres Records, box 2, folder 1; ibid., November, 1920, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 2; ibid.,
                            August 16, 1929, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 5.
                  
                     11 "1874," Ayres Records, box 1, folder 3;
                            "1930," Ayres Records, box 1, folder 57; "turkey dollar"
                            envelope, Ayres Records, box 1, folder 28.
               
                     on summer Saturdays, perhaps because few customers were willing
                    to spend Indiana summer afternoons in a stuffy department store but also as a means of allowing
                    employees an opportunity to enjoy 
                        Indianapolis
                    's parks. Formed in 1899, the voluntary Ayres Relief Association offered
                    employees sick benefits of three-fourths their salaries for up to thirteen weeks in any one year.
                    Though the relief association was partially funded by employee contributions, the Ayres company also
                    contributed to the benefits fund. By 1914 Ayres had also hired the first "industrial
                    nurse" in Indiana, opened employee lunch and rest rooms, and operated a store infirmary.12
            
            An employee credit union, formed during the 1920s, offered employees both short-term cash loans and
                    home mortgage financing. The Ayres Aid Association, chartered in 1924, provided employees with death
                    benefits until the company's later purchase of group life insurance for its employees.
                    Banquets and celebrations became parts of the sales competitions during the annual anniversary sale,
                    and Ayres initiated a "Twenty Year Club" that honored long-term employees with a
                    special ceremony, extra paid vacation time, and service pins. Employee golf outings, orchestras and
                    choral societies, women's exercise classes, and men's and women's store
                    clubs added to the long list of employee activities available during the 1920s. Such activities
                    continued during the Great Depression, with men's bowling and basketball leagues added to
                    the schedule of activities. Christmas bonuses appeared for the first time during the 1930s. During
                    the 1940s Ayres continued to promote employee recreation and welfare by sponsoring orchestra
                    concerts, employee hobby shows, and group hospitalization insurance.13
            
            
               
                  12 "1894," Ayres Records, box 1, folder 21;
                        "1899," Ayres Records, box 1, folder 21; "1915," Ayres
                        Records, box 1, folder 42. Changes in Indiana law may have prompted these closings. An 1893
                        amendment to an earlier law limited the hours that children under fourteen could work to eight
                        in any one day. Indiana, Laws (1893), 147–48. A 1918 report by the
                        Women's Bureau of the 
                            United States
                         Department of Labor stated that Indiana had no laws limiting the number of hours
                        women over the age of eighteen could work. In addition, Indiana had no restrictions on
                        women's night work in non-manufacturing jobs in this year. U.S., Department of Labor,
                        Women's Bureau, Labor Laws for Women in Industry in Indiana (
                            Washington
                        , 1918).
               
                  13 "1924," Ayres Records, box 1, folder 51;
                        "1936," Ayres Records, box 2, folder 6; "1941," Ayres
                        Records, box 2, folder 11; "Ayres Aid Association," Ayres Records, box 29,
                        folder 14; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, October 31, 1922, clipping in Ayres Records, box 1, folder 49; ibid., October 31, 1923, clipping in Ayres Records, box 1, folder 50; ibid., October 23, 1928, clipping in Ayres Records, box 1, folder 55; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, November 12, 1933, clipping in Ayres Records, box 2, folder 3; clipping
                        of a newspaper story on an employee barbeque, November 11, 1925, Ayres Records, box 1, folder
                        521; clipping of a newspaper story on an employee dinner, October 2, 1926, Ayres Records, box 1,
                        folder 53; Ayrograms, August 24,1928, April 12,1929, Ayres Records, box 7,
                        folder 5; ibid., February 1, November, December, 1930, Ayres Records, box 7,
                        folder 6; ibid., February, 1932, box 7, folder 8; ibid.,
                        August, 1948, Ayres Records, box 8, folder 2; program for an 
                            Indianapolis
                         Symphony Orchestra concert, January 5, 1945, Ayres Records, box 2, folder 15;
                        program for "Ayres Hobby Show," January 16–18, 1940, Ayres Records,
                        box 29, folder 18. For studies of welfare capitalism, see David Brody, "The Rise of
                        Welfare Capitalism," in Workers in Industrial America:
               
            
            
            While the overall purpose of employee training and welfare programs at L. S. Ayres may have been to
                    promote increased sales and profits for the corporation, those policies also promoted labor
                    discipline and loyalty to the store and its leaders. Sometimes efforts to use training to prevent
                    labor conflict in the store were quite direct. The cover of the November, 1920, issue of Ayrograms,
                    for example, carried a stark headline: "Work or Quit." Underneath that headline
                    the magazine's editor printed a few lines from writer, editor, and business expert Elbert
                    Hubbard: "If you work for a man [who] pays you wages that supply you your bread and butter,
                    work for him, stand by him, and stand by the company he represents."14
            
            Company publications often reminded readers of the benefits available to Ayres workers. A 1920s
                    edition of Ayrograms contained a list of the "privileges" that
                    employees at Ayres "enjoyed … that are not enjoyed by employees of other
                    department stores." Among the benefits listed were the employee lunch room, the
                    "liberal" vacation plan that allowed for one week's paid vacation after
                    two years of employment, store parties, men's and women's clubs, relief programs,
                    and employee merchandise discounts. The 1935 program of the Ayres "Minstrel Show and
                    Follies" presented employees with a similar list of privileges enjoyed by Ayres workers.
                    The publication of such lists was intended to promote employee loyalty and serve as a preventative
                    against the introduction of unions into the Ayres store. An undated booklet sent to "all
                    supervisory personnel" listed the benefits Ayres employees enjoyed and warned supervisors
                    that "Unions are eager to find trouble. It is our job … to recognize trouble if
                    it develops, and to do something about it at once."15
            
            Ayres used promotions to improve the productivity of its work force. The profits of large-scale
                    department stores like Ayres depended on high rates of turnover. Like other American department
                    stores, Ayres attempted to ensure this turnover through advertising. Beyond the constant sales
                    promotions, spectacular building expansions, and ever-expanding services and product lines, the
                    executives of Ayres also tried to sell their store as a place where customers could shop with the
                    confidence that the clerks and support staff they encountered in 
                  
                     Essays on the Twentieth Century Struggle (
                                New York
                            , 1980), 48–81; Stuart D. Brandes, American Welfare
                                Capitalism, 1880–1940 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1976); Daniel Nelson, Managers and Workers: Origins of the New
                                Factory System in the 
                                    United States
                                , 1880–1920 (
                        Madison, Wise
                     , 1975);
                            Gerald Zahavi, "Negotiated Loyalty: Welfare Capitalism and the Shoeworkers of
                            Endicott Johnson, 1920–1940," Journal of American
                            History, LXX (December, 1983), 602–21; Lizabeth Cohen, Making a
                                New Deal: Industrial Workers in 
                                    Chicago
                                , 1919–1939 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1990). For an examination of employee relations and welfare policies in
                            a department store, see Mary La Dame, The Filene Store: A Study of
                                Employes' Relation to Management in a Retail Store (
                                New York
                            , 1930).
                  
                     14
                            Ayrograms, November, 1920, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 1.
                  
                     l5
                            Ibid.; program for the "1935 Minstrel Show and Follies,"
                            Ayres Records, box 29, folder 17; L. S. Ayres & Company, "This We
                            Believe," undated booklet, Ayres Records, box 28, folder 4.
               
                    
                    
                     the store were treated fairly. Department stores like Ayres
                    built their reputations as much through their employees as through the goods they provided. Store
                    owners felt that they needed to promote good will in the community in order to attract and keep
                    customers. Recognizing the fears of potential customers for the moral state of the people who served
                    them, Ayres was careful in its advertising to emphasize its many programs to promote the health and
                    welfare of employees. A 1927 Ayres advertisement demonstrated the public image that the store sought
                    to establish; it described a store where "One rarely meets a surly or discourteous person
                    in the store's forces. They all like the store, think it's the best place to be,
                    and show their spirit in their work."16
            
            The store's leaders sometimes learned quite directly the value of their employment policies
                    in promoting public good will. In 1913 the store sent its customers brochures detailing the reasons
                    for closing Ayres on Saturday afternoons in the summertime. One impressed customer, Mary N. Walcott,
                    responded by writing, "This notice makes me happy. It will be a pleasure to shop in the
                    shorter hours knowing the clerks are having some respite from their long days. I hope you may double
                    your profits." Similarly, Sidelights, the store's early
                    twentieth-century catalog, told customers of the education department, reading room, hospital, and
                    other benefits that the store provided for its workers and promised that "These and other
                    opportunities will enable the employees of L. S. Ayres and company to equip themselves successfully
                    to win in the battles of life."17
            
            Advertising in the 1920s also pointed out the enlightened personnel policies of L. S. Ayres. A 1923
                    advertisement emphasized that a change in the opening hours of the store came after a vote of
                    employees, while a January, 1925, 
                        Indianapolis
                     News article told of the "Credit Society" that Ayres employees were
                    soon to have. Ayres recognized the importance of these employee welfare programs to its public image
                    even in the midst of the Great Depression. A 1931 advertisement reprinted in Ayrograms urged customers, "Let's Not Go Back." In its promise to
                    keep the tradition of closing on summer Saturdays, Ayres told its customers, "We think we
                    give better service to you when our store force is happy and contented … So we
                    don't intend to go back to the horse-car age for our Depression remedies." Later
                    in the decade, during a period of labor unrest in the city, Ayres produced a radio show on WIRE, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     radio station. The show highlighted the career of Robert Reilly, who had worked in the
                    store for more than fifty years. Reilly told of his loyalty to the store and promised that
                    "I would do it again and … if I did it again, 
                  
                     16 L. S. Ayres & Company advertisement, Retail
                                Review, V (December 12,1927), clipping in Ayres Records, box 1, folder 54.
                  
                     17 Mary N. Walcott to L. S. Ayres & Company (note written on a
                            copy of a notice of early summer closings), July 2, 1913, Ayres Records, box 1, folder 40;
                                Sidelights, January, 1918, Ayres Records, box 1, folder 45.
               
                     I would want to start with L. S. Ayres & Co."
                    A short history issued by the company on the occasion of its seventy-fifth anniversary in 1947
                    continued this tradition of using employee welfare programs to promote public goodwill. Lyman S.
                    Ayres, grandson of the founder, promised readers that Ayres would continue to use these policies to
                    promote a cheerful and contented work force, the store always moving in "the direction of
                    bringing to those who work at Ayres' a fuller life and a measure of security."18
            
            L. S. Ayres, then, used employee training and welfare programs not just to improve the sales
                    technique and morale of its sales force but also as an element of store advertising that promoted
                    the store as a place where employees were content and justly treated. Through such advertising,
                    Ayres hoped to convince its customers that they did not have to worry that they were shopping in a
                    place where workers were discontented and might succumb to the temptations involved in living and
                    working in a growing city. The focus of such advertising shifted over time. It emphasized employer
                    paternalism in an era of welfare capitalism, while later it stressed worker loyalty during days when
                    labor unrest threatened the city. Employee welfare programs, however, consistently helped Ayres
                    remind its customers that in the store's world, at least, all was peaceful and just.
            The efforts to make the store a comfortable environment for shoppers extended beyond advertising.
                    During the 1920s Ayres printed a "mission statement" that expressed the most
                    important goals of the employee training and service programs developed in that decade.
                    "The Ayres Ideal," according to that statement, was "To create a store
                    personality based upon sincerity, friendship, and courtesy, the foundation stones of real
                    service." The idea that a store could have a personality presented an imperative to
                    employers: in order to attract the "right" sorts of customers, they needed to
                    present their stores in a manner that met the expectations of those patrons, not just in terms of
                    the goods available for purchase but also in terms of the appearance and manners of the employees
                    who sold those goods. Modern retailing required that store owners create in their establishments an
                    environment of social comfort for shoppers. While training and welfare programs at Ayres promoted
                    more efficient sales techniques and inculcated a sense of loyalty to the store, a closer look at
                    those programs reveals that store owners worked to create particular identities for their employees
                    that met customers' expectations of proper race, class, and gender roles.19
            
            
               
                  18
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, November 8, 1923, clipping of an L. S. Ayres & Company
                        advertisement in Ayres Records, box 1, folder 50; ibid., January 24, 1925;
                        "Let's Not Go Back," advertisement reprinted in Ayrograms, July, 1931, Ayres Records, box 2, folder 2; script for a program broadcast
                        on radio station WIRE-AM, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , December 20, 1937, Ayres Records, box 5, folder 7; L. S. Ayres & Company,
                            We Tell Our Story, 35.
               
                  19 Store directory, Ayres Records, box 1, folder 56. This formulation
                        appears on the masthead of nearly every issue of Ayrograms. For an excellent
                        discussion of
            
            
            Ayres's definition of service stressed the ability of clerks to help shoppers discover their
                    needs and wants. The reporter who covered the opening of Ayres's new downtown store in 1905
                    was struck by the "ease with which the clerks attended to [customers'] wants.
                    Every article was in its place and every clerk knew every article and every place." The
                    reporter who covered another Ayres expansion in 1915 contended that the store had
                    "perfected the element of service," which he defined as enabling the customer to
                    "get what she wants, precisely as she wants it, exactly when she wants it." By the
                    1920s, the definition of service for clerks had expanded far beyond the notion that they should
                    merely know where goods were located and bring them to shoppers when they were requested. Sidelights advertisements in 1925 for Ayres's shopping service told
                    customers that "our expert shoppers make every effort to determine your exact needs and
                    desires and strive intelligently to assure you complete and immediate satisfaction." A
                    clerk now had to have such a complete knowledge of customers' tastes that they offered
                    appropriate goods and services almost before they were requested.20
            
            This ideal of service presented a dilemma for Ayres executives. On one hand, their clerks needed to
                    demonstrate a knowledge of the social world that shoppers occupied in order to assure customers that
                    those who served them understood the latest styles and fashions. On the other hand, clerks had to
                    maintain the sort of social distance that customers expected from those who sold them goods. Clerks
                    needed to show that they understood the style and language of the world of fashion without implying
                    that their knowledge and taste exceeded that of their customers. The problem for Ayres management
                    thus became one of training their clerks to occupy what executives considered their proper social
                    status. Store training in the language of style and fashion became central to this process of
                    inculcating status.
            Training for status often focused on the language that clerks used with customers. From the advice
                    and education aimed at store clerks during the 1920s in Ayrograms, it is apparent
                    that the training department of Ayres felt that employees needed education in such fundamentals as
                    English pronunciation and grammar. For example, Ayrograms urged employees to
                    participate in a class held by the "Better English Institute of America." The
                    August 30, 1929, issue of Ayrograms reminded employees of the correct
                    pronunciation of "similar" (not "simular") and used that word as
                    an object lesson for other words. The store magazine also offered phonetic aides for the
                    pronunciation of the names of French designers and fashionable 
                  executives' efforts to create ideal relationships within their stores, see Sarah
                            Smith Malino, "Faces Across the Counter: A Social History of Female Department
                            Store Employees, 1870–1920" (Ph.D. dissertation, 
                                Columbia
                             University, 1982).
                  
                     20
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Sun, October 5, 1905; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 26, 1915; Sidelights, May, 1925, Ayres
                            Records, box 7, folder 1. See also Benson, Counter Cultures.
                  
               
                    
                    
                        Paris
                     streets like the Champs Elysees. If such training tended to bring clerks socially
                    closer to their customers, Ayrograms reminded clerks to keep their distance. One
                    issue pointed out that customers were not impressed to hear clerks say, "I wear that kind
                        myself."21
            
            Store management also concerned itself deeply with the grooming and appearance of selling floor
                    employees. The April 26, 1926, edition of Ayrograms urged "Every woman in
                    the store who wishes to make the best of her looks" to contact the manager of the newly
                    opened beauty store. Explanations of the year's fashions in the employee magazine
                    frequently addressed readers as if they were considering purchasing such clothing. While Ayres
                    published formal dress codes in the 1920s, by 1929 dress regulations were relaxed, Ayres executives
                    claiming that they preferred to leave such decisions to the "good taste and judgment of our
                    people." These eased restrictions led to some inappropriate dress, and the store warned
                    women that "the store expects [you] to know what is smart and what is in good taste and
                    dress accordingly." In 1931 Ayres established a committee that determined standards for
                    employee dress. Ayres executives, it seems, were torn between their desire to promote at least the
                    appearance of employee decision making and the need to ensure that employees dressed in a manner
                    acceptable to customers. When women workers proved incapable or unwilling to dress in an approved
                    way, managers stepped in to ensure that dress again became appropriate.22
            
            Ayres also used its employee discount policy as an economic incentive to dress as the store directed.
                    By the 1940s, the employee discount stood at 16.67 percent in all departments except service, where
                    no reductions were available. Employees who purchased clothing approved for store wear received 25
                    percent off the ticketed price.23 Employee discounts had long been a source of
                    friction between management and employees. If Ayres executives used this welfare policy to promote
                    loyalty and establish standards of conduct among employees, Ayres workers found the reduced prices
                    available to them to be useful for other ends. Some women combined their 25 percent store discount
                    with sale prices to purchase goods at a price less than wholesale level, a practice prohibited by a
                    1942 store directive. In the 1920s the store complained the many of the "extras"
                    hired during holiday and other sales periods made use of the employee discount, an act not allowed
                    under store regulations. Other women used 
                  
                     21
                            Ayrograms, May 10, August 30, October 11,1929, Ayres Records, box 7,
                            folder 5; ibid., August, 1922, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 2.
                  
                     22
                            Ayrograms, April 26, 1926, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 5; ibid., August 10, 1928, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 4; ibid.,
                            February 28, 1930, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 6; ibid., March, 1931,
                            Ayres Records, box 7, folder 7; ibid., November, 1931, Ayres Records, box
                            2, folder 1; Albert N. Collins to All Saleswomen, Policy Bulletin #136A, May 5,1925, Ayres
                            Records, box 24, folder 8; Policy Bulletin #291A, October 24,1929, Ayres Records, box 24,
                            folder 3.
                  
                     23
                            Ayrograms, May 1, 1946, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 9.
               
                    
                    
                  MAIN FLOOR, SPRING,
                            1923
                  Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                             (Neg. no. C7619).
               
                    
                  SELLING STAFF, MARCH,
                            1924
                  Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                             (Neg. no. C7621).
               
                     their discount to supplement their income; a store directive
                    from September 2, 1942, reminded workers that they could not use their discount "for
                    another person who actually pays for the item, directly or indirectly."24
            
            The directives of store managers to saleswomen to dress in a "conservative" and
                    "businesslike" manner and to use "proper" English reveal the
                    ways that Ayres executives used training and welfare in their attempt to inculcate certain social
                    identities among their employees. Store owners sought to create a distinct group of saleswomen who
                    could dress, talk, and act in a manner that appealed to their customers. Ayres cultivated the types
                    of customers who could take advantage of its 
                        Paris
                     shopping service and expected the latest fashions from that city. In the eyes of their
                    employers, the training that could create employees conversant in this language of taste and fashion
                    separated clerks from their co-workers. The very fact that executives felt a need to train their
                    employees in matters as apparently simple as speech and dress points both to employers'
                    perceptions of workers' levels of education and sophistication and to the standards by
                    which employers separated one social group from another. Ayres executives hoped through training and
                    education to eliminate at least some of the social distance between their customers and their
                    selling employees. That they used language and dress as major markers of that status reveals the
                    important role that such social goods played in determining social status in the early twentieth
                        century.25
            
            The concern for placing clerks in a social context that customers found comfortable extended to
                    clerks' relationships with those employees who worked in non-selling departments such as
                    the alteration and fur workshops, building maintenance, and furniture repair. The records of
                    Ayres's Twenty Year Club offer evidence that distinctions existed between those who worked
                    in selling and non-selling departments. The October 17, 1946, edition of Ayrograms offered a list of
                    "Who's Who in the Twenty Year Club," profiled those employees who had
                    worked in the store more than thirty years, and listed club members by department. All those who had
                    been in the store more than forty years were white men who held executive positions. Among the
                    thirty-one with thirty or more years of service were twenty women, only four of whom worked in
                    sales. Most of the other women worked either in secretarial roles or as needle workers in
                    alterations or the fur workroom. Most of the men who were long-term employees worked as sales
                    executives or managers; only one held a job as a delivery 
                  
                     24 Policy Bulletin #73A, February 23,1942, Ayres Records, box 25,
                            folder 1; Policy Bulletin #47B, undated [1920s?], Ayres Records, box 24, folder 1;
                            "Employees Discount Privilege," memo to executives, merchandise managers,
                            department heads, and section managers, September 2, 1947, Ayres Records, box 28, folder 7.
                  
                     25 For an examination of the importance of dress and manners to the
                            emerging middle class in the nineteenth century, see John F. Kasson, Rudeness
                                & Civility: Manners in Nineteenth-Century America (
                                New York
                            , 1990).
               
                    
                    
                  L. S. AYRES & COMPANY, 1936
                  Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                             (Neg. no. C7620).
                driver. The listing of Twenty Year Club members reveals that certain departments, such as
                    porters, the fur workroom, receiving and marking, warehouse and delivery, and the tea room and
                    kitchens had large numbers of club members. Few departments in the merchandise division, with the
                    exception of infants' and children's apparel and the millinery section of the
                    French Room had more than one Twenty Year Club member, a distribution that may reflect the higher
                    wages paid by these departments and the sense that moving to such departments represented a
                        promotion.26
            
            If Twenty Year Club members were older than the average store worker, in 1946 at least, a salesperson
                    was more likely to be younger and less experienced than either non-selling workers or executives.
                    The relatively low representation of the sales force in the Twenty Year Club also points toward a
                    higher turnover in selling than in 
                  
                     26
                            Ayrograms, October 17, 1946, Ayres Records, box 29, folder 8.
               
                    
                    
                  THE TWENTY YEAR CLUB PARTY, 1949
                  Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                             (Neg. no. C7612).
                the non-selling branches. In some departments when employees arrived at Ayres, they
                    stayed, while in others jobs at Ayres served mostly as temporary expedients. The large number of
                    "extras" hired during sale and holiday seasons also contributed to the large
                    turnover in many parts of the store. Such evidence hints that hiring practices, training programs,
                    and the attitudes of employees themselves at L. S. Ayres contributed to the development of two
                    fairly distinct groups of workers in the store: selling and non-selling employees.
            In 1914 the Bureau of Labor Statistics published a survey of wages and working conditions for women
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     department stores and garment factories. The survey examined such demographic
                    characteristics as age, conjugal condition, and living arrangements among workers in these two
                    industries. Average weekly wages and work hours were calculated, as was the average number of
                    workers per toilet. Most importantly, the survey broke down these categories in the department store
                    by selling and non-selling staff. The survey reveals only slight differences in the pay received by
                    selling and nonselling employees in department stores. While salespersons in some departments
                    received wages considerably higher than the average worker in alterations or the millinery room,
                    workers in other departments received far less. While workers in the workrooms were on average a
                    year or two older than saleswomen, members of both groups  were
                    in their twenties, usually single, and often lived with their parents, just as did women who worked
                    in garment factories.27
            
            In the twenty-eight retail establishments surveyed, 665 men were employed in selling capacities and
                    1,820 women, 1,720 of whom were older than sixteen. Only 31 men worked in alterations in these
                    stores, while 372 women, including three who were younger than sixteen, served in that capacity. The
                    survey also broke down occupations by the average age of workers: cash girls, bundle wrappers,
                    inspectors, and stock girls formed the youngest group of workers, with an average age of 15.3 years.
                    Saleswomen averaged 26.7 years, while alteration and millinery hands averaged 28.8 years. Office
                    workers were a younger group (21.9 years) than both saleswomen and alteration hands. Of 331 women
                    department store workers surveyed, 83.7 percent were single, 7.6 percent married, 4.2 percent
                    widowed, and 4.5 percent divorced or separated. Most of these women (256) lived with their parents,
                    although 22 lived with other relatives, 32 lived in boarding houses, and 21 "kept
                    house." Employers reported that saleswomen with commissions averaged $9.77 per
                    week in pay. The women themselves claimed an average of $8.95 per week with commissions.
                    This information also reveals a wide range in wages by departments, from coats, suits, and skirts,
                    where saleswomen averaged $12.84 per week, to notions, where workers averaged
                    $5.67 per week. The highest-earning departments also had the highest average age of
                    workers, with coats, suits, and skirts averaging 32.8 years. Workers in notions were only 22.2 years
                    old on the average. Those working in alterations and the millinery workroom averaged
                    $9.99 per week, with alteration department workers averaging $9.77 per week.
                    The lowest-paid workers in the store were cash girls, messengers, bundle wrappers, packers,
                    inspectors, and stock girls, who averaged only $3.85 per week. Buyers were the best paid;
                    they averaged $25.87. By contrast, women working in the garment industry reported an
                    average pay of $7.42 per week, with employers' records contending that they
                    earned $8.01.28
            
            Such information reveals that workers in non-selling and selling jobs often enjoyed similar material
                    circumstances. Saleswomen and alterations workers reportedly received identical weekly wages. The
                    training and welfare programs employed at Ayres, however, insured that selling and non-selling
                    workers occupied different social positions. First, employees who did not deal directly with
                    customers were often absent from store literature. "Non-selling" employees who
                    worked in management did receive considerable attention in employee publications, but employees
                    whose jobs required physical labor or 
                  
                     27 Marie Louise Obenauer and Frances W. Valentino, Hours,
                                Earnings, and Conditions of Labor of Women in Indiana Mercantile Establishments and
                                Garment Factories (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1914).
                  
                     28
                            lbid., 8, 10–11, 33–34, 41, 44,
                        45–46.
               
                     manual skill existed in the Ayres literature mostly as
                    interesting fixtures of the store about whom clerks could learn in order to improve their selling.
                    Store literature of the 1920s told readers of the "airy" workshop and
                    "large, well-lit workroom" where those employed in drapery making at Ayres plied
                    their trade. In the same year, an issue of Ayrograms that was intended to prepare
                    workers for a summer inventory reported that the non-selling staff, "who are supposed to be
                    rather dumb about merchandise," were allowed to participate in the process as recorders of
                    stock information. During the 1930s nonselling workers were finally addressed directly when employee
                    publications urged them to participate in the selling activities of the store through their efforts
                    to "make the customer happy." Only after World War II did Ayres begin to offer
                    classes in work skills for nonselling employees.29
            
            Store literature thus attempted to create a clear distinction between two types of workers at Ayres,
                    the men and women who sold goods and the men and women who made sure that those goods reached their
                    proper destinations. While these two groups of workers probably received a very similar weekly pay
                    envelope, they nevertheless differed considerably in terms of average age and length of service at
                    the store. Clerks tended to be younger and newer employees. While such distinctions surely resulted
                    in part from the choices about work and social life made by the men and women who worked in the
                    store, programs that taught salespeople to speak, dress, and behave in a manner that employers felt
                    distinguished clerks from people of similar social origins (like their
                    "non-selling" co-workers) surely helped to determine the social profile of the
                    store. Working to meet customer's expectations, Ayres tried to create social distinctions
                    among its employees based on age, gender, language, and dress.
            Ayres executives did more than simply attempt to inculcate proper modes of speaking and dressing
                    among their employees in their efforts to make the store a socially comfortable place for the
                    affluent shoppers who patronized it. Ayres training and welfare programs also manipulated
                    expectations of gender identity in order to present the world of the store as an ideal one. These
                    training and welfare programs promoted roles for women and men in the workplace that stressed
                    traditional, domestic identities for women and patriarchal identities for the male leaders of the
                    store. Male employees who occupied a less exalted position possessed a more ambivalent identity than
                    store leaders. If some women chafed under the constraints of the understandings of femininity
                    promoted by the store, others found in these "old" notions of female identity a
                    means of creating a new, business-oriented female professionalism.
            
               
                  29
                        Ayrograms, June 1, July 7,1928, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 4; ibid., September, 1931, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 7; Ayrograms,
                        May, September, 1932, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 8; ibid., September, 1947,
                        Ayres Records, box 8, folder 1.
            
            
            Depictions of the ideal female employee that appeared in employee publications stressed women
                    workers' politeness, beauty, and ability to care for fellow employees. Ayrograms described assistant coat buyer Mary Ives, who left the store upon her marriage
                    in 1928, as "one of the most beautiful girls in the store, but also one of the most
                    popular, because of her unfailing courtesy to everyone with whom she came in contact." Upon
                    the 1948 death of salesperson Helene Levin, Ayrograms praised her for being
                    "sincerely interested in people." Above all, Ayres stressed that women married and
                    that married women stopped working. Employee publications highlighted the role of women as wives by
                    printing engagement announcements, even if the women involved at times were reticent about their
                    altered circumstances. The January 3, 1930, edition of Ayrograms, for example,
                    announced that "Frances Zaring, of the stationery department, is wearing a new diamond
                    which she got for Christmas. We have not been able to discover who the lucky man is." Ayrograms also printed birth announcements from former employees and letters from
                    ex-workers who had enjoyed their jobs but were "now very happy" as housewives and
                        mothers.30
            
            In its advertising, Ayres attempted to connect the work that its employees did in the store to more
                    traditional roles for women. Advertisements seemed to assure customers that even as women employees
                    assumed new roles they maintained their feminine identities. During World War I, clerks were allowed
                    to knit socks for soldiers on the front when they were not waiting on customers. An advertisement
                    compared the activity of these "young women," whose "business it is to
                    wait upon you, to serve you as patrons in every possible way," to the activities of their
                    pioneer grandmothers-and the grandmothers of their customers-who knitted the clothes for the entire
                        family.31
            
            Women were often denned in relation to the men who worked at Ayres. For the most part, employee
                    publications depicted men either as executives or as non-selling, service employees. Not
                    surprisingly, executive men appeared as strong providers ready to aid and care for their employees.
                    On the death of Lyman S. Ayres, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News quoted a memorial from his employees, who "felt, instinctively, that
                    any trouble, real or imagined, if carried to Mr. Ayres, would be speedily and satisfactorily
                    adjusted." Male employees of a more humble sort could be praised for such
                    "manly" virtues as power and strength but were expected to "attend
                    quietly to business" and comply cheerfully with the requests of their supervisors. One
                    worker, "Dick," came in for praise for being "powerful physically 
                  
                     30
                            Ayrograms, February 24,1928, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 4; ibid., January 3, 1930, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 6; ibid.,
                            November, 1948, Ayres Records, box 8, folder 2; ibid., December, 1949,
                            Ayres Records, box 2, folder 19.
                  
                     31 L. S. Ayres advertisement, 1917, Ayres Records, box 1, folder
                        44.
               
                    
                    
                  "BOOTH GIRLS" AT THE
                                TOILET GOODS FAIR, JUNE, 1928
                  Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                             (Neg. no. C7618).
                and a stickler for his rights, but no scrapper; [he was] genial and obliging."
                    Men (and women) who worked in sales often assumed a similarly ambivalent position. Most departments
                    were identified as male or female, regardless of the people who sold in those departments. Of
                    course, the "gendered" definitions of these departments did not always match up
                    with the realities of the store. In May, 1924, for example, the store gave a party for the
                    "salesmen" in the washing machine department who had recently completed a Maytag
                    selling contest. The workers in that department were indeed men, except for the winner of the
                    contest, Mrs. Marie Douglas.32
            
            Thus, the rigid sex separation that existed in the gender ideology promoted by Ayres did not exist in
                    store practice. Store recreation and welfare policies served in part to reimpose this separation in
                    the lives of store workers. Recreation at Ayres featured many events open to men only, such as golf
                    tournaments and bowling 
                  
                     32
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 8, 1896, clipping in Ayres Records, box 5, folder 10; Ayres Log Book, March-April, 1918, Ayres Records, box 1, folder 25; Ayrograms, January, 1922, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 2; ibid., May,
                            1924, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 3.
               
                     leagues. Ayres featured two employee organizations in the
                    1920s, a men's club called the El-Es-A and the Ayres Association of Women. Beginning in the
                    1920s, women were often urged to attend games and cheer for the men who played on store basketball
                    and Softball teams, but were not allowed to (or did not) form their own competitive athletic
                    organization, a bowling team, until 1949. Earlier depictions of men's teams had featured
                    pictures of male bowlers in action and game scores. The Ayrograms story on the women's
                    bowling team, however, offered a posed picture of the women of the team, who "[made] an
                    outstanding looking team in their neat maroon colored bowling dresses."33
            
            The realities of the store and its work force often did not match the ideals promoted by Ayres
                    executives. Many women continued to work after marrying, and many women chose never to marry at all.
                    Miss Pauline Gauss, a former Ayres petticoat buyer who took a similar 
                  
                     33
                            Ayrograms, October, 1949, Ayres Records, box 8, folder 3.
               
                    
                  BASKETBALL TEAM, 1931–1932
                  Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                             (Neg. no. C7614).
               
                     position at Himmelhoch's in 
                        Detroit
                    , wrote to Ayrograms in May of 1923, wondering when "married
                    women who work all day and do housework at night find time to be nice to their
                        husbands."34 An Ayres advertisement, probably from the 1950s, that
                    highlighted the benefits of closing the store on Mondays hinted that some women separated their
                    professional and feminine identities. It suggested that women found work and their understanding of
                    marriage and motherhood incompatible. One woman wrote that the Ayres policy of closing on Mondays
                    made her a "better business woman five days, and a better home-maker and family person the
                    whole year." Another simply wrote, "For a day I'm a lady."35
            
            Some women, like Flora Krauch, managed to manipulate this idea of women's roles to create
                    well-paying jobs for themselves within the Ayres organization. Unmarried, Flora Krauch came to Ayres
                    in 1909 from 
                        Chicago
                     to take over the infants department. Krauch used a variety of methods to build up her
                    department, including a series of newspaper columns on such subjects as "How to Bathe the
                    Baby" and "How to Dress the Baby Without Buttons or Pins." These stories
                    quoted scientific experts on childrearing and emphasized Krauch's own professional
                    experience in clothing for infants. When she left the store, Krauch began editing a journal entitled
                        Bigger Business, which promised to inform readers of the methods that allowed
                    her to build, in "seven short years, a department in which she has under her direction
                    forty clerks."36
            
            Krauch's success as a merchandiser, while undoubtedly a result of her skills in promotion,
                    display, and buying, owed a great deal to her ability to use and manipulate the notion of
                    women's roles promoted by L. S. Ayres. The department that she headed, infants and
                    children, embodied a role for women recognized by the store and society as an important and natural
                    one for women. While unmarried, Krauch could use her identity as a woman to legitimate the advice
                    that she gave women on raising their children. Women achieved success as buyers and managers in
                    other departments of the store as well, but Krauch's case clearly illustrates the ways that
                    the role of women workers in the store promoted by Ayres training and advertising could aid the
                    advancement of women whose personal lives did not fit that ideal.37
            
            
               
                  34
                        Ibid., May, 1923, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 3.
               
                  35 "An Employee Report," brochure, Ayres Records, box 2,
                        folder 16.
               
                  36 L. S. Ayres & Company advertisement, March 25, 1909
                        (advertisement discusses Flora Krauch's arrival at Ayres), Ayres Records, box 1, folder
                        36; "1909," Ayres Records, box 1, folder 36; Flora Krauch, columns,
                        1911–1913, Ayres Records, box 1, folder 6; Flora Krauch, "Your Baby: A
                        Series of Heart to Heart Talks to Mother," 1912, Ayres Records, box 1, folder 39;
                        clipping from Bigger Business, Ayres Records, box 1, folder 41.
               
                  37 Many women's historians have examined the way that women
                        manipulated the ideal of the nurturing, domestic woman in order to gain access to the public
                        world and political debates in the early twentieth century. Excellent examples of such work can
                        be found in Seth Koven and Sonya Michel, eds.,Mothers of a New World: Maternalist
                            Politics and the Origins of the Welfare States (
                            New York
                        , 1993).
            
            
            The realities of race relations also entered into the social order that managers hoped to maintain in
                    the store. As with women, Ayres attempted to place its African-American employees in socially
                    acceptable spaces and to define roles for those workers that allowed them to fit comfortably into
                    the expectations of shoppers. Black workers formed an important part of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     work force during the early twentieth century. African Americans began settling in 
                        Indianapolis
                     after the Civil War, the migrants finding conditions in the city an improvement over
                    those in the South. By 1900 
                        Indianapolis
                     had the seventh-largest African-American community among northern cities. These blacks
                    settled in distinct neighborhoods on the north side of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In the north side's Fifth Ward, for example, blacks made up one-third of the
                    population in 1910 and two-thirds by 1930. By 1918, after the Great Migration from the South that
                    occurred as a result of the wartime expansion of job opportunities, the city's black
                    population had reached 35,000. Before the war, black men and women had been employed mostly in
                    low-paying and low-status service jobs. While black men gained some access to manufacturing jobs
                    during the war, the majority of black workers remained employed in these lower-paying positions.38
            
            African Americans worked in just these types of jobs at Ayres. They played an important role in the
                    store from at least the beginning of the twentieth century; the first black workers were inducted
                    into the Ayres Twenty Year Club in 1928. From pictures in employee magazines, most of them published
                    in the 1940s, it appears that blacks worked at Ayres in non-selling, service jobs. All of the store
                    porters, who worked mostly as janitors, were black men. The store's elevator operators were
                    all black women. Food preparation was performed exclusively by black men and women, although the
                    supervisors of the employee lunch rooms and public cafeterias were usually white women. Until 1948,
                    employee activities were also rigidly separated by race. When the Twenty Year Club initiated its
                    first black members in 1928, the store held a separate party to welcome them. The porters had their
                    own service club, bowling team, and glee club. When elevator operator Anna Paige celebrated twenty
                    years in the store in 1946, her fellow workers recognized that achievement at a special banquet at
                    the Flanner House, a segregated local settlement house. While the Ayres carolers were integrated by
                    two black men in 1948 and the employee basketball team experienced the same change in 1949, a 1948
                    publication on expanded employee lunchroom services assured white readers that the all-black cooking
                    staff had their own dining room and "[did] not eat where food is being
                        prepared."39
            
            
               
                  38 Ruth Hutchinson Crocker, Social Work and Social Order: The
                            Settlement Movement in Two Industrial Cities, 1889–1930 (
                            Urbana
                        , 111., 1992), 76–83.
               
                  39
                        Ayrograms, October, 1931, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 4; ibid., January 24, 1942, Ayres Records, box 2, folder 12; ibid., March,
                        August, 1946, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 9; ibid., January, 1948, Ayres
                        Records, box 8, folder 2; ibid., December, 1949, Ayres Records, box 2, folder
                        19; "Let's Meet at Ayres," May, 1948, Ayres Records, box 8, folder
                    2.
            
            
            
               ELEVATOR OPERATIONS, JUNE,
                        1928
               Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                         (Neg. no. C7622).
            
            That Anna Paige's Twenty Year Club induction was held at Flanner House is significant.
                    Flanner House had been founded by white reformers in 1898 on land donated by Frank Flanner, a
                    mortician and leader in the Charity Organization Society. In 1902 Flanner House came under the
                    control of black reformers, but by 1912 financial necessities had forced the "Flanner
                    Guild" to turn to middle-class white reformers for financial assistance. Historian Ruth
                    Crocker finds that by 1917 the house was firmly under the leadership of these white reformers. From
                    its earliest days Flanner House sponsored programs that concentrated on improving the condition of
                    black workers, programs that helped them acquire skills to compete in the job market. When the Great
                    Migration brought increased social tensions to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the white leadership sought to use the social welfare programs of the settlement house
                    to help "control and contain" these problems and avoid conflict over such legal
                    issues as segregation. During the 1920s, Flanner House programs concentrated on improving the living
                    and working conditions of 
                        Indianapolis
                     blacks, especially the increasing number of black women who worked in domestic service.
                    This emphasis on social welfare and gradual improvement in working conditions, Crocker contends,
                    meant that the conservative whites and their black allies who controlled Flanner House  in the 1920s were interested in "adjustment rather than
                    empowerment." In the late 1940s Flanner House in many ways continued to promote this kind
                    of alliance between whites and blacks. During these years the settlement house encouraged gardening
                    and canning in the black community and helped to build low-income housing for those displaced by 
                        Indianapolis
                    's slum clearing plans. Among the white community leaders who offered a
                    visiting group of Texans a tour of the house's facilities was Theodore B. Griffith,
                    president of L. S. Ayres. In the 1950s, W. Rolland Allen, an L. S. Ayres director, also served on
                    the board of directors of Flanner House.40
            
            Thus, Ayres was at least to a degree involved in the world of conservative racial reform. Images that
                    store publications produced about African-American workers reflected this involvement. While few
                    descriptions of the attitudes of black workers exist, black male workers received occasional praise
                    for being "cheerful, courteous, and loyal," and women kitchen workers were praised
                    as a "quiet group who always has everything in readiness."41
            
            It appears that the boundaries between black and white workers were much more rigid than those
                    between white male and female workers. It also seems that black jobs at L. S. Ayres were much more
                    rigidly gendered than white ones; no black men worked as elevator operators, just as no black women
                    were porters. Perhaps this more rigid distinction grew out of the exclusion of blacks from the sales
                    force: it was in this field that gendered job identities were the most fluid. Such clear
                    distinctions hardly seem surprising in a society that systematically segregated whites and blacks
                    both socially and economically. Nor is the limited postwar integration of Ayres's social
                    life surprising when considered within the context of national events. That black workers remained
                    confined to the lowest-paying and least prestigious jobs in the store offers a powerful
                    representation of the limits of integration.
            What seems most important about the roles prescribed for black workers at Ayres, though, was their
                    relationship to the identity that managers and executives tried to create for the store. Black
                    workers formed a definite and visible part of the store's identity. Providing direct
                    services to customers in the subservient roles of doormen and elevator operators, they assumed very
                    "proper" roles at Ayres. During the 1920s, customers and white employees alike
                    might have used such positions as evidence that Ayres understood and practiced the
                    "correct" racial relations. Ayres could also enhance its image as a progressive,
                    yet cautious, store during the late 1940s by promoting a limited degree of integration within its
                    employee recreation activities 
                  
                     40 Crocker, Social Work and Social Order,
                            68–93; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 4, 1951, November 26, 1952, clippings in scrapbook #OM513,
                            Flanner House Records, 1946–1954 (Indiana Historical Society).
                  
                     41
                            Ayrograms, September, 1930, Ayres Records, box 7, folder 6;
                            "Let's Meet at Ayres."
               
                     while retaining more traditional African-American economic
                    roles. In that way, Ayres's training and employment policies demonstrate the connections
                    between social reform and business interest in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the first decades of the twentieth century.
            Flanner House was not the only institution of social reform that assisted the efforts of Ayres
                    management to improve the material circumstances and moral well-being of their workers. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     YWCA, like Meredith Nicholson, expressed concern about the moral lives of young women
                    in the department stores. In 1914 the YWCA began offering "girls … good,
                    wholesome recreation under the supervision of good teachers and trainers," an opportunity
                    happily endorsed by the El-Es-A Log Book of April, 1914. These YWCA programs
                    helped define the role of female workers in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They stressed both the need for training in successful business methods and education
                    in a social, cultural, moral, and religious context that fit traditional understandings of the role
                    of women.42
            
            The YWCA's concern with department store workers was part of its larger interest in the
                    lives of young working women in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Education programs for these women in such subjects as business English and
                    arithmetic, first aid, millinery, and dressmaking became part of the YWCA's efforts.
                    Classes in other subjects equipped a woman to "work and sing; finding from art, music and
                    literature resources within herself for real pleasure." The YWCA also operated a rooming
                    house in 
                        Indianapolis
                     for young working women; in January, 1918, it was occupied in part by two clerks, six
                    stenographers, five office workers, two bookkeepers, and two telephone operators. Some programs
                    sponsored by this organization concentrated specifically on department store workers, such as the
                    clubs organized at various 
                        Indianapolis
                     department stores. These clubs offered classes in cooking, first aid, physical
                    education, Bible dramatics, fancy work, and English. Reports of these activities to the YWCA board
                    emphasized that stores and the association worked together on these programs. Olga Steeg,
                    Ayres's education director in 1914, participated by lecturing and promoting a sales course.
                    While it does not seem that Ayres workers were as active in these programs as those at some other
                    stores, notably William H. Block, an Ayres employee lived in the YWCA residence as late as 1929.43
            
            
               
                  42
                        El-Es-A Log Book, April, 1914, Ayres Records, box 29, folder 11.
               
                  43 Report to Board of YWCA by Mrs. Hutchins, chairman of Education
                        Department, 1913–1914, 
                            Indianapolis
                         Young Women's Christian Association Records, 1896–1986, box 7,
                        folder 10 (Indiana Historical Society) (
                            Indianapolis
                         Young Women's Christian Association Records, 1896–1986,
                        hereafter cited as YWCA Records); report of YWCA residence, January, 1918, YWCA Records, box 7,
                        folder 15; department store report, October, 1914, YWCA Records, box 7, folder 11; Lianne [A.?]
                        Rush to Mrs. Harry Miller, April 3,1918, YWCA Records, box 7, folder 5; annual report,
                        1914–1915, YWCA Records, box 7, folder 12; General Secretary's report,
                        October, 1914, YWCA Records, box 7, folder 11; Residence Committee minutes, February 13, 1929,
                        YWCA Records, box 7, folder 12.
            
            
            The YWCA programs addressed two concerns that reformers had for young working women. Like the
                    stores' internal efforts, YWCA programs focused on improving the selling skills of store
                    clerks. As part of this effort, programs brought higher education to workers. One Ayres employee who
                    participated in a domestic science class became so inspired that she signed up for summer school
                    class and eventually became a high school domestic science teacher. In addition to these concrete
                    business and training issues, classes for store clerks addressed the social and cultural lives of
                    workers. The YWCA organized art appreciation classes and provided supervision for coeducational
                    outings, like a skating party held for Block's workers.44 The
                    department store division also held prayer circles and Bible classes, often in the stores
                    themselves. Internal YWCA reports told many stories of young single women who were sorely tempted to
                    adopt immoral ways during their lonely days and nights in the city. These potential Sister Carries
                    found their salvation in the training and social activities available to them through the
                    YWCA's programs. Finally, YWCA programs promoted a spirit of charity among department store
                    workers by encouraging philanthropy among the members of store clubs. The club at Block's,
                    in fact, gave $2.50 to the family of an injured co-worker, an act that "put them
                    in the spirit of doing for others." Like the efforts at Ayres, then, improvement programs
                    at the YWCA combined business education, moral betterment, and social adjustment in an attempt to
                    train department store workers to occupy an acceptable status in 
                        Indianapolis
                     society.45
            
            In establishing a place of shelter and instruction for single female workers in the city, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     YWCA both acknowledged the problem created by "broken barriers" and
                    offered a solution. That the solutions the YWCA offered closely mirrored the business and social
                    training available at Ayres reveals the close relationship between early twentieth-century social
                    reform and business practice in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Ayres executives had a much more difficult time solving the problems of the social unease created by
                    the presence of young women working in their downtown department store than Meredith Nicholson did
                    in finding a means for Grace Durland to overcome her moral dilemmas. If Nicholson could simply
                    introduce a plot turn in the form of a wealthy suitor and a convenient illness for that
                    suitor's wife, Ayres executives were forced to confront the demands of modern retailing
                    through other means. Concerned with the social and economic 
                  
                     44 Report of the Girls' Department, March, 1918, YWCA
                            Records, box 7, folder 15; Education Department annual report, 1914–1915, YWCA
                            Records, box 7, folder 11; report of YWCA meetings at Herron Art Institute, winter,
                            1916–1917, YWCA Records, box 7, folder 14.
                  
                     45 General Secretary's report, February, 1915, YWCA Records,
                            box 7, folder 12; report for stores, January, 1918, YWCA Records, box 7, folder 15;
                            department store report, December, 1914, YWCA Records, box 7, folder 11.
               
                     consequences that might result from a store that allowed
                    "immorality" and "improper" social relations to exist among its
                    employees, Ayres used training and welfare programs in an attempt to ensure that employees assumed
                    their "proper" social distance from shoppers, that gender relationships met the
                    expectations of customers, and that African-American workers occupied positions that seemed natural
                    and comfortable to white patrons. That such efforts extended to segregated settlement houses and
                    moral reform associations like the 
                        Indianapolis
                     YWCA reveals that reform in the twentieth century had many roots and causes and that
                    among them were the interests of business leaders.
         
         
         
            Looking Back Rereading and Rewriting History
            
                    Annette Atkins
                    *
                
            
               American Retrospectives: Historians on Historians. Edited by Stanley I. Kutler. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1995. Pp. x, 341. Notes. Clothbound,
                    $48.50; paperbound, $16.95.)
            Some years ago editor Stanley I. Kutler commissioned for Reviews in American
                    History a series of retrospective reviews of the important books in a variety of fields. He has
                    collected here twenty-four of those reviews. They consider works published as early as Richard
                    Morris's Studies in the History of American Law (1931) and as late as
                    Nathan Huggins's Black Odyssey (1977). Not surprisingly, the collection
                    emphasizes earlier works, examining only a few of the "new" histories. Anyone who
                    reads Reviews in American History regularly will be familiar with these essays and
                    will no doubt be grateful to have them collected here.
            The essays were single in assignment-to "explain the present vitality and usefulness of the
                    work" and to "explore the original reception and impact of the works" (p.
                    ix)-and are varied in execution. Some of the essays serve as excellent summaries of the contents and
                    arguments of the book under review. Donald B. Cole's essay on Arthur Schlesinger,
                    Jr.'s Age of Jackson (1945) does this nicely, demonstrating the extent to which this is a
                    big-theory book in its anti-Turnerian emphasis on class. Other essays focus more fully on the
                    book's influence. Alan Brinkley argues that Richard Hofstadter's Age
                        of Reform "is the most influential book ever published on the history of
                    twentieth-century America. For more than a decade after its appearance in 1955, its interpretation
                    shaped virtually every discussion of modern American reform. For longer than that, its
                    methodological innovations helped recast the writing of history in many fields" (p. 45).
                    Brinkley is persuasive and his argument is borne out in the collection as a whole: no other author
                    is mentioned more often.
            Like the books that they reviewed, the essays by James T. Kloppenberg on Morton White's Social Thought in America (1949) and Aviam Soifer on Willard Hurst's The Growth of the American Law
                    
                  
                     * Annette Atkins is professor of history at St.
                            John's University, 
                        Collegeville,
                                    Minnesota
                     . She is currently
                            working on a book that looks at the adult sibling relationships among a variety of different
                            families in nineteenth-century America.
               
                     (1950) are really directed at specialists in philosophy and
                    law. Also, like their authors, they offer fascinating if sometimes overly abstruse meditations.
            Some of the essays focus on only one book of the many produced by a prolific historian. Merle
                    Curti's Growth of American Thought (1943), Bernard De Voto's Year of Decision (1943), and Mary Beard's Woman as Force in
                        History (1946) are reviewed without reference to their other writings. This is hardly
                    Beard's best book and Suzanne Lebsock offers a clearer statement of Beard's
                    argument than Beard herself did. The selection of The Image as the Daniel Boorstin
                    book to be reviewed is peculiar. Stephen J. Whitfield's essay on this book persuades me
                    that the work is interesting without convincing me that it is either especially important to or
                    emblematic of Boorstin's body of work. In some cases the historian only wrote one
                    remarkable book. Eleanor Flexner's Century of Struggle (1959) has been
                    essential reading for historians of women because of its "simple elegance and its scholarly
                    reliability" (p. 117) not because it profoundly influenced the historiography of
                    women's history. Jon Gjerde examines the fullness of Paul Gates's writing on
                    American land policy and the continuing relevance of that work. Similarly, Thomas K. McCraw looks at
                    Alfred Chandler's formative contributions to business history and locates them in the
                    context of the author's life. McCraw did not trace the influence of Chandler's
                    work on other historians but does demonstrate his affection and admiration for Chandler, his 
                        Harvard
                     Business School colleague. I missed this kind of personal context in the other essays.
            Some of these books inspired a school (even a factory) of research. As Martin Ridge remarks about
                    John D. Hicks's The Populist Revolt (1931), "far from being the
                    last word on Populism, it proved to be an evocative book that produced a variety of valuable case
                    studies" (p. 29). Some of the books reviewed are in such a school: Robert
                    Starobin's Industrial Slavery (1970) in response to and development of
                    Kenneth Stampp's studies, for example. In other cases the book stands almost alone. As
                    James Campbell and James Oakes wrote about Winthrop Jordan's White Over
                    Black (1968), "it cast a narrow historiographical shadow" (p. 282). This is
                    the one book in the collection that I still assign to students and find amazingly provocative,
                    admittedly in its briefer White Man's Burden (1974) form.
            Finally, while some of the books reviewed here were probably meant for a particular audience (Merrill
                    Jensen's for historians of the Revolution), others were intended to cast new light on all
                    of the American past. Reviewed here by Robert M. Collins, David Potter's People of Plenty (1954) invites the reader to rethink the effect of abundance on the
                    development of America. According to reviewer David W. Blight, Nathan Huggins bids us to retell the
                    whole story in light cast by the slave experience. Robert Dawidoff, giving the kind of whole-souled
                    review that every author would die for, claims that  Merle Curti
                    in The Growth of American Thought "wrote the intellectual history on
                    which most of American history of the last forty years has been based" (p. 85).
            The best essay in the book may be Kenneth Cmiel's on Robert Wiebe's The Search for Order (1967). Cmiel rethinks the "search." He looks again
                    at Wiebe's modernization theory and rightly notes that "so preoccupied was he with
                    the system-building itself that he ignored the ways that the system interacted with human
                    beings." And, Cmiel continues, Wiebe left out "friendship, love, family,
                    neighborhood, work." Cmiel detects in Wiebe a deep sadness about the inevitability and toll
                    of modernization and comments that Wiebe forgot that "there are more things in the world
                    than order" (p. 308).
            The organizing principle of Kutler's book is not evident nor is the principle of selection
                    (why these from the Reviews in American History series and not others), but Kutler
                    does articulate a rationale for commissioning the reviews in the first place and for publishing this
                    gathering up: many of these books were for him profoundly important and, he says, "they
                    remain essential to my understanding of the American past, subject, of course, to the obvious caveat
                    that their successors have ably enhanced and expanded their contributions" (p. x). In this
                    thrust and parry Kutler reveals both the text and the subtext of this collection. These are
                    important books; nearly every one of them has been required reading for American history graduate
                    students in the last thirty years. Only a few of them, however, would currently be read or assigned
                    in a class or grappled with in our own writings-they are too old, or outdated, or superseded. This
                    kind of change is in the nature of the discipline. Even so, Kutler laments that historians
                    increasingly "cite only the work of their peers and contemporaries, often failing to
                    recognize how that work had evolved from apparently long-forgotten historians, some of whom had
                    produced the pioneer inquiry on a subject" (p. ix). Unfortunately, he doesn't
                    comment explicitly on the irony of historians ignoring their own historical past.
            Like many collections, this one probably will not generally be read from beginning to end nor in one
                    extended sitting, but will profitably be dipped into by graduate students and teachers who want to
                    recall a specific book or be reminded of a particular argument. When read altogether, however, the
                    essays present a fascinating retrospective on the larger field of American history and offer a
                    provocative commentary on the current state of historical writing.
            The collection demonstrates how fully each book was embedded in the ideas and events of its time.
                    Most of these books would certainly offend a modern reader's sensibilities about gender and
                    race. Louis P. Masur notes that Bernard De Voto reflects his era's attitudes about Indians
                    in the American West. The books are time related and reflective in other ways, too. Arthur M.
                    Schlesinger, Sr., took as the dominant image in his The Rise of the City,
                    1878–1898 the 
                    
                        White City
                     of the 1893 
                        Columbia
                     Exposition in 
                        Chicago
                    , but, as Terrence J. McDonald comments, the book appeared in 1933 when few Americans
                    resonated with such a hopeful, optimistic, even romantic view of the city. If Schlesinger noted the
                    irony, he didn't mention it, even in his introduction, but it is impossible not to be
                    struck by it today. By contrast, William Appleman Williams's indictment of American foreign
                    policy, first published in 1959 and reviewed here by Bradford Perkins, did speak to (and perhaps
                    even helped to crystallize) some discontents of his day. His work found an enthusiastic if not
                    overly generous reception as a result. Flexner had the misfortune of publishing her book on
                    women's political history just as some American women were declaring that the personal was
                    political and were taking their scholarly (and personal) questions in another direction, as Carol
                    Lasser's review aptly points out. In his book The Concept of Jacksonian
                        Democracy (1961), Lee Benson's distrust of appearances and his quest for
                    scientific precision mirror the early 1960s' rejection of artifice and the
                    period's slightly desperate embrace of science. As Daniel Feller notes, "Jabbing
                    italics, bolstered by an imposing display of social science terminology and numerical data,
                    intimidated even where they did not persuade" (p. 275). Wasn't Benson in a way
                    doing in his writing what architects Renzo Piano and Richard Rogers were doing in their design of
                    the Pompidou Center in Parisputting the construction methods on the outside so that the beauty was
                    in the function not in the form?
            Kutler's collection asks what our right relationship to these books ought to be but does not
                    really answer the question. Should we remember the works and their authors as Americans often think
                    about pioneers: with fondness and perhaps a little condescension (appreciating them for what they
                    did in their time but now finding them vaguely quaint or simplistic)? Kutler intimates that most of
                    us take a whiggish view of our own disciplinary past and feel justified in doing so. Clearly, our
                    discipline has been propelled by a commitment to the new-new methods, new sources, new questions,
                    new interpretations. Many of us who do American history today would not have found an intellectual
                    home among professional historians in the past but flourish in the present as a result of other
                    historians' willingness to break away from the trails laid out by earlier historians-some
                    of them among those here reviewed.
            The book demonstrates how often in the last sixty years the discipline has been invigorated by
                    something new-an economic interpretation where political ones have dominated; an emphasis on
                    conflict where consensus has prevailed; a reformulation of the questions. If we do not pay attention
                    to these earlier works because of the substance of their findings, we would do well to pay attention
                    to what has energized the profession in the past.
            The first lesson: think bigger; imagine in larger terms; take risks. Most of the books reviewed here
                    are remarkable for their ambition  and their vision. These
                    authors generally had big ideas and looked at them in a big way. "Let's rethink
                    all of this," they seemed to be saying to themselves. Asking how all reformers thought was
                    certainly a foolishly extravagant question, yet it was also a provocative and interesting one.
                    Making generalizations about the development of American thought seems to be a fool's
                    errand, but aren't we grateful that someone was willing? Of course contemporary historians,
                    committed to the importance of social, gender, race, and class categories in history, are bound to
                    be skeptical of generalizations about "Americans." But we continue to be hungry
                    for generalizations, if only to sharpen our wits and intellectual acumen to say nothing of our
                    research. Historians must find ways to make broad generalizations while at the same time maintaining
                    the integrity of the particulars. As Dawidoff says, "The general survey such as
                    Curti's reminds the historian that there is a larger picture into which the special
                    foreground must sooner or later fit" (p. 86).
            The reviewers repeatedly commend their authors for their largeness of vision. Reviewer Stephen Botein
                    praises Richard Morris for working "in bold strokes for the benefit of lay
                    readers." Chandler's work "represented a monumental historiographical
                    achievement: a tour de force of comparative research and conceptualization, and a
                    matchless example of a business historian's willingness to generalize" (p. 105).
                    "If [Rise of the City] is not the history of the city that we need today
                    it is still the place to start for a refreshing sense of the possibilities that the American city
                    once represented. If we no longer see those possibilities it may be less the result of our improved
                    historical practice than of the diminishing size of our moral universe" (p. 269). Cmiel
                    repeatedly praises Wiebe for the genius of his synthesis.
            Contemporary historians have gotten very careful, too careful. Too many books and articles are
                    published for the sake of tenure or promotion and authors are unwilling to risk rejection or bad
                    reviews. We might do well to listen when De Voto declares, "the reverence for fact that is
                    the necessary condition of research has too often become a screen for timidity" (p. 187).
                    We should listen to Suzanne Lebsock's judgment about the intellectual struggle that reading
                    Mary Beard's work requires. It is worth it, she argues, because "Beard took on
                    questions of enormous importance." Lebsock continues, "To study Beard is to
                    grapple with fundamental issues, for history, for feminism, for the future of us all" (p.
                    180). And we should take seriously Dawidoff s charge that Merle Curti's kind of thinking
                    has "been abandoned by a profession that lost its bearings in specialization and has sought
                    to recover them on too small, too high, and too undemocratic an intellectual plane" (p.
                    85).
            When historians write small, our audiences are small. David M. Kennedy compares Allen's Only Yesterday (1931) with The Great Crusade and After (1930) by
                    William Preston Slosson. Both books  covered the 1920s and both
                    appeared at about the same time. "Where Allen was selective, anecdotal, judgmental, and
                    unfailingly interesting, Slosson was comprehensive, scientific, objective, and a trifle boring. If
                    Allen's prose lilted musically along, Slosson's soldiered stolidly
                    forward" (p. 83). Which would you rather read? Kennedy is critical of the public that has
                    for sixty years opted for Allen over Slosson. He sees in the choice a somewhat deplorable public
                    preference for "style to substance." A little harsh on the reading public, I
                    think, and a little too forgiving of Slossen. The American public may be consumed by materialism and
                    a television culture. Nonetheless, there is out there a large history-reading public whose
                    historical interests are not currently being satisfied by professional historians but by writers
                    willing to hazard stories that speak to significant issues. No doubt these popular historians make
                    some mistakes along the way. Professional historians also make mistakes, but we can't let
                    our fear of them paralyze us. In our carefulness, in our precision, we have abdicated our authority
                    to speak and to be heard outside of the academy on important issues. That is one of the lessons of
                    this collection.
            The second lesson to contemporary historians is to write better. To be sure, not all the books
                    reviewed here are models of good writing. In a wonderful flash of good writing, reviewer Thomas
                    Slaughter notes that reading Merrill Jensen "is about as much fun as slogging
                    one's way through a Valley Forge winter in bare feet" (p.
                    143). But most of these books are noteworthy for their attention to the writing. Cole admires
                    Schlesinger's "ability to evoke the past in human terms," and argues that
                    "Schlesinger comes closer than anyone else to conveying the feeling and emotion of the
                    era" (p. 73). Whitfield lauds Boorstin: "It is so rare for a historian to be
                    clever that Boorstin's astonishing erudition at least dampens the suspicion that he is only clever. His books yield surprising and obscure information, related with such
                    sprightly wit and vividness that many a larcenous lecturer has cherished them for introductory
                    courses (and beyond)" (p. 220). And Cmiel praises Wiebe's
                    "extraordinarily graceful prose" (p. 294).
            Contemporary historical scholarship demonstrates the allure of research. Our own pleasure in data-and
                    the oft-reported dread of writing-may blind us to the need to give life, voice, and meaning to our
                    data when we turn it over to others. When our students complain that this or that work is boring,
                    don't we sometimes agreewhether or not we admit it to them? Aren't we asking a lot
                    of each other and of the reading public by writing in such deadly and deadening ways? That is
                    another of the questions these essays raise.
            Finally, the third lesson is that we must write with passion. We know why our work is important, why
                    a focused study of a welldefined subject is really relevant to much else, but we don't like
                    to tell anyone, or take the risk of showing it. The conventions of contemporary historical
                    scholarship require that the life be squeezed out of it or into the conclusion or epilogue. Giving
                    the reader a reason to  read the book may seem like pandering,
                    and expressing our personal stake may make us feel too exposed; but don't most of us do our
                    work because we really care in some fundamental way and because it touches our own deepest questions
                    and issues? What makes many of the books reviewed in this collection worthy of reconsideration is
                    that they tell passionate stories or they tell their stories passionately. Of course we know the
                    distortions of passion, and as historians we know the effects of passion. But as historians we
                    should know that the disguise of passionlessness is also a distortion.
            Each of these books is fired by some passion or another. In the judgment of reviewer Alex
                    Lichtenstein, Robert Starobin's commitment to the black liberation movement informed Industrial Slavery in an entirely responsible way. Starobin's political
                    commitment, Lichtenstein argues, "informed [his] scholarship without distorting
                    it" (p. 223). Merton L. Dillon contends that Dwight L. Dumond, a student of Ulrich B.
                    Phillips, wrote from a commitment to liberal values and an abhorrence of radicalism in any form. Did
                    these commitments blind them? Of course. Kenneth Koch observed that a way of seeing is always a way
                    of not seeing. Dumond did misunderstand Garrison. The Beards' commitment to economic
                    explanations blinded them to religion. At the same time, Starobin's political commitments
                    also helped him see. If his "numbers and economic theory were shaky his general conclusions
                    were not" (p. 229).
            Even, or maybe especially, would-be scientist Lee Benson had a passion in his work: "Benson
                    not only demanded a reexamination of old shibboleths like 'Jacksonian
                    Democracy,'" Feller writes, "he wanted historians to adopt a new way of
                    thinking and of writing, and indeed a new purpose" (p. 272). Isn't that passion,
                    too? We needn't choose between dispassionate and distorted. We have many choices in
                    between, and we can exercise good judgment on our own and in our community of scholars. If we want
                    our work to matter, to fuel interest in the past, to cast new light on some issue or another, we
                    have to stop banking our fires.
            Three lessons and lots of thoughtful writing-that is quite a harvest from one book. Of course, the
                    essays vary in quality. An index would have been helpful. I would like to have read a concluding,
                    interpretive essay by editor Kutler. That is by the by. This book is provocative, insightful, and
                    not a bad rendition of our own disciplinary story. Oh, yes, and a call to action that I hope we
                    heed.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Frontier Indiana. By Andrew R. L. Cayton. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1996. Pp. xii, 340. Maps, illustrations, essay on sources,
                    index. $35.00.)
            This volume, which is included in Indiana University Press's History of the
                    Trans-Appalachian Frontier series, traces the history of Indiana from 1750 through 1850. Based
                    primarily upon published primary sources and solid secondary works, the volume focuses upon a broad
                    spectrum of social, political, and economic issues and provides an excellent synthesis of the early
                    history of the state. It is written for a popular audience, and Hoosiers interested in this early
                    period will find the book both informative and enjoyable. Moreover, it seems ideally suited as a
                    textbook for courses in Indiana history.
            Andrew R. L. Cayton focuses his chapters upon particular places or individuals, using these subjects
                    as the media through which he discusses various periods in Indiana's history. For example,
                    chapter three is entitled "The Village of 
                        Vincennes
                    ," and Cayton utilizes his analysis of 
                        Vincennes
                     to discuss Creole society in Indiana during the late colonial period. Chapter eight,
                    "The World of Tenskwatawa," centers upon the Shawnee Prophet and his movement,
                    which Cayton uses to explore Indian-white relations in the period prior to the War of 1812, while
                    chapter nine, "The World of Jonathan Jennings," enables Cayton to focus upon
                    Jennings, an opponent of William Henry Harrison and early delegate to Congress, to illustrate the
                    issues and machinations of Indiana politics during the territorial period. Cayton's use of
                    these individuals or places as ploys to explore larger issues personalizes his text and illustrates
                    the impact of political or economic forces upon individual human beings.
            Cayton's volume provides an excellent discussion of Native Americans during the frontier
                    period, and his analysis of Native American strategies to maintain a balance of power between the
                    tribal communities and the competing colonial, or American, entities indicates that Native American
                    leaders were aware of the pivotal position they played in the region, particularly in the colonial
                    era. Cayton also provides some interesting insights into attempts by William Henry Harrison and
                    other landholders near 
                        Vincennes
                     to introduce slavery or extended indenture into the region, and although these efforts
                    were defeated, he illustrates that settlement patterns in Indiana remained predominantly southern in
                    origin. Unlike its neighbors, Indiana attracted fewer emigrants from the northeast or from Europe.
                    Consequently, Indiana remains the most "southern" of the midwestern states, and
                    Cayton argues that the origins of traditional Hoosier localism, attitudes toward race, lack of
                    support for education, religious fundamentalism, and subscription to rural values can be found in
                    the southern upland origins of its pioneer population.
            
            The volume has some shortcomings. Some scholars may fault Cayton for his heavy reliance upon
                    published sources, and historians of women may find his coverage disappointing. Although he includes
                    a chapter on "The World of Anna Tuthill Symmes Harrison, 1795–1810" and
                    provides some discussion of Native American women and Sarah Hill Fletcher, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     resident during the 1820s and 1830s, Cayton focuses primarily upon men during most of
                    his narrative. Yet the volume remains a very good synthesis of the history of the frontier period in
                    Indiana. Frontier Indiana is well written and should enjoy a wide audience.
                    Moreover, it will be welcomed by any historian who has an interest in Indiana or the Midwest.
            R. DAVID EDMUNDS is professor of history, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He has written extensively upon Native Americans in Indiana and the Great
                        Lakes states.
         
         
            
               Thomas Taggart: Public Servant, Political Boss, 1856–1929. By James
                    Philip Fadely. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1997. Pp. xii, 267. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $27.95.)
            Throughout the twentieth century, Thomas Taggart has been a personage of legendary stature to
                    Hoosiers interested in Indiana politics. Folk accounts and formal histories have uniformly
                    characterized Taggart as the dominant figure in the Democratic party of Indiana during the first
                    quarter of the century.
            Undoubtedly, Taggart's legend has endured in the popular mind because it has some of the
                    appeal of romantic fiction owing in part to the fact that Taggart exercised great political power
                    from an unlikely place; i.e., French Lick, then a resort town and gambling center
                    in rural southern Indiana. Actually, in some respects Taggart's life ran according to the
                    formula of an Horatio Alger novel. He began life in the 
                        United States
                     as a poor immigrant youth from northern 
                        Ireland
                    . Evidently he was a descendant of Scots-Irish Presbyterian folk. After one year of high
                    school Taggart began his working life as a floor sweeper for a railroad restaurant and hotel in
                            
                  Xenia, Ohio
               . Later he was employed in the position of railroad depot hotel
                    manager in 
                        De Kalb County
                    , Indiana, and then in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Subsequently, Taggart became the proprietor of 
                        Indianapolis
                     hotels and then owner of the French Lick Springs Hotel, a spa patronized by many of the
                    nation's rich and celebrated personalities. Ultimately, Taggart was a multimillionaire
                    whose property included family mansions in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , French Lick, and Hyannis Port, 
                        Massachusetts
                    .
            Taggart's increasing success as an entrepreneur coincided with his rise to power in Indiana
                    politics and government. He was 
                        Marion County
                     auditor (1887–1895) and mayor of 
                        Indianapolis
                     (1895–1901). Meanwhile, he served terms as 
                        Marion County
                     Democratic party chairman and as the Democrats' state chairman. He was also
                    chairman 
                    
                  THOMAS TAGGART, 1913
                  Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     of the Democratic National Committee (1904–1908)
                    while he was the committeeman from Indiana to that national committee (1900–1916).
            This is the first complete biography of Taggart. The full scope of the book's coverage is
                    not revealed by its title. While much of the biography focuses on Taggart's roles as an
                    officeholder and as a political boss, almost half of it concerns his business affairs and family
                    life. Although not uncritical, the volume presents a sympathetic view of Taggart as a genial,
                    generous, honest, and decent man who was devoted to his family and to public service. While
                    describing Taggart as the unrivaled Democratic boss in Indiana during an age when this
                    state's role in national electoral politics was perceived as pivotal, James Fadely
                    concludes, "He made governors, congressman, senators, vice presidents, and even
                    presidents" (p. xii).
            The book's endnotes cite a great variety of published material, several interviews, and some
                    manuscript collections, including the Taggart papers. Newspaper accounts furnished much of the
                    information about Taggart's life, especially for the period when he was approaching the
                    zenith of his success (1895–1905). The book provides fuller descriptions than analyses of
                    Taggart's achievements in business and politics.
            
               Thomas Taggart should be read by students of state and national political history.
                    James Philip Fadely tells an interesting life story in a readable style that may appeal to general
                    readers, as well as to scholars.
            WILLIAM W. GIFFIN teaches Indiana history at Indiana State
                    University, 
                        Terre Haute
                    . He is the author of a chapter in Peopling Indiana: The Ethnic
                    Experience (1996).
         
         
            
               Blue Lightning: Wilder's Mounted Infantry Brigade in the Battle of
                        Chickamauga. By Richard A. Baumgartner. (
                        Huntington
                    , W. Va.: Blue Acorn Press, 1997. Pp. iii, 244. Illustrations, maps, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $30.00.)
            In June of 1863, while fighting in their first real battle in Hoover's Gap, 
                        Tennessee
                    , a brigade of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     men advanced so rapidly and fought so aggressively they earned the nickname Lightning
                    Brigade. Richard A. Baumgartner has written the history of this Civil War brigade during the time
                    Colonel John T. Wilder was its commander, from December, 1862, through the Battle of Chickamauga in
                    September, 1863. During this time the brigade helped the Union's Army of the 
                        Cumberland
                     drive the Confederate army out of middle 
                        Tennessee
                     and then out of 
                        Chattanooga
                    . At the Battle of Chickamauga, Wilder's brigade managed by its tenacious
                    fighting to slow the Confederate advance at several crucial times, thus helping the Union army avoid
                    destruction.
            
            The Lightning Brigade was different from most Civil War units in two ways. The men were mounted
                    infantry, thus were pioneers in developing the new idea of fighting as infantry but using horses to
                    move about rapidly. They had better weapons than most of their opponents since they were equipped
                    with 
                        Spencer
                     breech-loading repeating rifles.
            The book should appeal to those interested in the military history of Indiana's Civil War
                    soldiers. The brigade included two Indiana mounted infantry regiments, the 17th and the 72nd; three
                    regiments from 
                        Illinois
                    , the 92nd, 98th, and 123rd; and the 18th Indiana Battery of Light Artillery commanded
                    by the young Captain Eli Lilly. Wilder, who before the war owned a foundry in 
                        Greensburg
                    , Indiana, is described as an innovative, aggressive, and effective commanding officer.
                    The book includes numerous photographs of men who were in the brigade. There is a list of those who
                    were casualties in the Chickamauga campaign. Throughout the text the author includes biographical
                    information about many of the men.
            A good feature of the book is that the author quotes very extensively from brigade members'
                    letters and diaries. The men describe skirmishing, scouting, and camp life as well as the ferocity
                    of battle, especially at 
                        Chickamauga
                    . There are lively, often humorous accounts of the difficulties that ensued when these
                    men, originally infantrymen, became mounted infantry and had to learn how to ride and deal with
                    horses and mules. The men acquired their mounts by simply taking them from civilians in the vicinity
                    who were presumed to be "disloyal inhabitants" (p. 19). Since they spent so much
                    time on foraging expeditions, their letters describe many encounters with civilians in 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            Baumgartner's descriptions of military actions are not always easy to follow. This is partly
                    because of the nature of the book. The author is focusing on the actions of many individual men in
                    one brigade in the midst of very complicated moving and fighting of two large armies. Readers need
                    to have some basic knowledge of the military events treated here, particularly the Battle of
                    Chickamauga. The maps in the book do not show sufficient details; most do not indicate position or
                    movements of various military units. Readers would have found it helpful if the author had
                    summarized in an appendix the details about the brigade's organization and officers,
                    explained how it fit into the Army of the 
                        Cumberland
                    , and noted the times when various units of the brigade, such as the 92nd 
                        Illinois
                    , were temporarily detached for special assignments.
            SHARON HANNUM SEAGER is professor of
                    history, Ball State University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, where she teaches courses on the Civil War, the South, and women in American
                    history.
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Kentucky
                        : Portrait in Paradox, 1900–1950. By James C. Klotter. (
                        Frankfort
                    : 
                        Kentucky
                     Historical Society, 1996. Pp. x, 424. Endmaps, illustrations, tables, notes, index.
                    $38.00.)
            Like many states, 
                        Kentucky
                     is a study in contrasts. Geographically, the mountainous east is antithetical to the
                    flat west. Northern Kentuckians are closer to 
                        Canada
                     than the Jackson Purchase. But Kentucky history, argues James C. Klotter, is chock full
                    of other kinds of paradoxes, and his new book, 
                  
                            Kentucky
                        : Portrait in Paradox, 1900–1950, examines many of them. Indeed, his
                    is the first work to look honestly at the state's past by examining and analyzing decline
                    as well as progress. The result is impressive.
            Klotter sees the city of 
                        Louisville
                    -an urban, cosmopolitan, modern center in an otherwise rural, traditional state-as a
                    prime example of the state's many paradoxes. It was 
                        Kentucky
                     and was not 
                        Kentucky
                    , he writes. The plateau counties of eastern 
                        Kentucky
                     were also paradoxical: rural and urban, agrarian and industrial, isolated and
                    cosmopolitan, homogeneous and heterogenous, poor and wealthy, beautiful and ugly. They were engaged
                    in stasis and revolution and were epitomized by both the hardship of Loretta Lynn and the success of
                    Jean Ritchie.
            Klotter's chapters go on to detail other examples of paradox. In 1945 two-thirds of
                    Kentuckians had no access to local libraries, but the state had produced an abundance of major
                    American writers. 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1900 produced the most manufactured goods in the South, but by 1929 it was tied with 
                        Arkansas
                     as the southern state with the slowest industrial growth. Prohibition, high railroad
                    rates, and poor political leadership were culprits, but agriculture refused to give up the fight. In
                    a chapter on minorities, Klotter notes that even the state's "United We Stand,
                    Divided We Fall" motto is paradoxical, as women and African Americans were anything but
                    welcomed into an otherwise patriarchal white society. Klotter uncovers a delightful vignette of
                    Madeline McDowell Breckinridge, a leading state suffragette, who once told the governor that "
                        Kentucky
                     women are not idiots-even though they are closely related to 
                        Kentucky
                     men" (p. 110). Eventually women had something to celebrate, but black
                    Kentuckians experienced little about which to cheer, especially during the heyday of segregation.
                    Yet paradoxically, perhaps, 
                        Kentucky
                     was the only southern state that never disfranchised its black voters.
            Much of the rest of Klotter's work focuses on politics, and his answer to "What was 
                        Kentucky
                     politics?" is replete with stories of a damned system, but one with
                    significant bright spots and with leaders intent both on personal gain and on courageous leadership.
                    The peculiarities of 
                        Kentucky
                     politics, Klotter argues, formed such a "complex labyrinth" that even
                    "Daedalus might have become lost" (p. 195).
            
            By 1950 reports were urging Kentuckians toward action-fix the schools, revise the Constitution, build
                    more highways, even introduce new plants, "such as kudzu" (p. 338). What the state
                    would do with those recommendations, of course, is the subject of another volume. But Klotter,
                    always sober and critically detached, reveals the state's difficulty with reform and
                    tradition between 1900 and 1950. He shows how the state could have done many positive things during
                    these years; "that it did not," he writes, "doomed 
                        Kentucky
                    , all too often, to retrenchment or retreat while too many other rivals were
                    advancing" (p. 344). 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1950, he concludes, had an opportunity to reverse "the negative trends of a
                    half-century" (p. 344), an honest assessment of a paradoxical state indeed.
            CHAD BERRY recently won the Richard H. Collins Award for
                    "The Great White Migration, Alcohol, and the Transplantation of Southern
                    Protestant Churches," which was published in The Register of the 
                        Kentucky
                     Historical Society. He is assistant professor of history, Maryville College,
                            
                  Maryville, Tennessee
               .
         
         
            
               Two Worlds in the Tennessee Mountains: Exploring the Origins of
                        Appalachian Stereotypes. By David C. Hsiung. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1997. Pp. xv, 239. Maps, illustrations, tables, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $32.95.)
            This book is a significant contribution to the growing body of grounded and nuanced scholarship on
                    the Appalachian region. It addresses the development and deployment of regional stereotypes about
                    Appalachia and its people-a core feature of the region's social, cultural, and political
                    history. And it carries the analysis beyond any study previously available.
            With a few exceptions, such as Rodger Cunningham's Apples on the Flood: The
                            Southern Mountain Experience 1987) and J. W. Williamson's
                        Hillbillyland: What the Movies Did to the Mountains and What the Mountains Did to
                        the Movies (1995), virtually all scholars have accepted Henry Shapiro's argument
                    in Appalachia on Our Mind (1978) that denigrating images of the region and its
                    people issued primarily from the local color literature of the late nineteenth century. David C.
                    Hsiung's work locates the origins of the images a full half-century or more earlier in
                    processes different from those of the local color movement.
            Mindful of recent scholarship that is skeptical of all generalizations about the Appalachian region
                    as a whole, Hsiung focuses upon the Unaka range of upper east 
                        Tennessee
                     between 1775 and 1865. He begins by asking whether mountaineers were as isolated and
                    unable to collaborate in cooperative ventures as the stereotypes have long held them to be. His
                    imaginative and meticulous research in court records, tax records, and lists of customers in local
                    store account books shows that even before 1800 the area's residents, far from  being isolated, connected with each other and with the world outside. A
                    network of roads enabled farmers, iron manufacturers, merchants, and livestock drovers to interact
                    simultaneously within a local community, a civil district, a county, and an array of interstate
                    markets. Thus, as early as the 1830s the area had "a thriving economy firmly anchored
                    within a broad geographical and commercial context" (p. 87).
            Despite their shared links to the larger market economy, upper east 
                        Tennessee
                     residents, Hsiung shows, were increasingly divided internally over a variety of issues.
                    These divisions came into broad relief in debates over internal improvements that many hoped would
                    facilitate further integration into broader markets. Chief among them was the East 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     Rail Road, which was completed in 1858. Hsiung's burdensomely detailed account
                    of the planning and building of the railroad illuminates the class-based politics of the process.
                    The majority of upper east 
                        Tennessee
                     residents proved to be "relatively unenthusiastic" about the
                    railroad, some of them at least partly for the practical reason that it did not serve the
                    mountainous northeastern section of the area.
            The conflict of perspective and interest that ensued from this unequal distribution of benefits,
                    Hsiung argues, generated some of the denigrating images of mountain people that became popular in
                    subsequent decades. Supporters of the railroad "saw themselves as an island of
                    enlightenment in a sea of ignorance" and viewed those who did not support it as inferior,
                    thus "signal [ing] the beginnings of modern characterizations of Appalachian
                        Mountain people" (p. 128). Only later, Hsiung maintains, did local color
                    writers and others tap into such images and disseminate them widely. Thus, by the time local color
                    writers appeared on the scene, the major outlines of the denigrating cultural arguments had long
                    since been in place, having developed primarily out of internal social, political,
                    and economic differences.
            What one might reasonably hope is that this new analytical perspective would lead Hsiung to read the
                    local color materials themselves in more nuanced ways than they have thus far been read.
                    Unfortunately, he does not do so. His consideration of the "creation of Appalachian popular
                    images" in the local color period consists essentially of a limited and derivative
                    comparison of an 1853 travel account by David Hunter Strother ("Porte Crayon") and
                    Mary Noailles Murfree's In the Tennessee Mountains
               
                    (1884). What the comparison actually proves is not clear, and several insistent questions remain
                    unanswered: precisely how were the mid-century images of the region and its people similar to or
                    different from the later local color ones? Did the former influence the latter, directly or
                    indirectly, and if so, through what channels or processes? And how would Hsiung's analysis
                    be modulated if one tried to factor either race or gender-or both-into it?
            
            Posing such questions does not detract from the considerable value of Hsiung's
                    accomplishment. One would hope that others would take this study as a model and carry out similar
                    analyses for other sub-areas of the Appalachian region. One would be very interested to know, for
                    example, whether the denigrating images that emerged from the coal fields of the 
                        Cumberland
                     plateau differ substantially from those that came out of the Blue Ridge. Prior to
                    Hsiung's work no one had thought to undertake such a carefully delimited analysis.
            DAVID E. WHISNANT is professor of English, University of 
                        North Carolina
                    , 
                        Chapel Hill
                    .
         
         
            
               Clergy Dissent in the Old South, 1830–1865. By David B. Chesebrough.
                    (Carbondale, Ill.: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1996. Pp. xiii, 136. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            Dissenting clergy were a minority in the Old South, and perhaps the slender size of this volume is
                    further evidence of that fact. David B. Chesebrough is quick to acknowledge that the overwhelming
                    majority of people living in the South supported slavery and, eventually, secession and war, but he
                    wants to remind the reader that "the South, even in the war years, was never a monolithic
                    society" (p. 86).
            Chesebrough sketches his case in four chapters. Chapter one details the majority position: southern
                    churchmen, especially from the 1830s onward, were vocal defenders of slavery. Chesebrough gives
                    ample voice to the participants in making his case, while touching briefly on key events, including
                    the Turner rebellion, abolitionist agitation, and denominational schisms. The second and third
                    chapters pick up the theme of dissent, first over slavery and then over secession. Again, much of
                    the story is told through the words of the participants, such as the final letter of Methodist
                    Anthony Bewley telling his wife, "you will have to spend the remaining part of your life as
                    a bereaved widow, with your orphan children" (p. 36). Soon after, a group of vigilantes
                    from 
                        Fort Worth
                     lynched Bewley. While there is little new in these first three chapters, historians and
                    other interested readers will find the brief stories of these dissidents intriguing.
            The last chapter is the best, but unfortunately the shortest, chapter of the book. Here Chesebrough
                    begins to gather and analyze the stories sketched in the previous pages. There were patterns to
                    dissent. To no one's surprise dissenting ministers were found more often in the Upper South
                    (p. 87). This fact leads Chesebrough to conclude that a common thread connected the dissenters
                    scattered across the South: "each of them had certain exposure to and links with the
                    North" (p. 90). This was true even after the dissenting issue switched from slavery to
                    Unionism. Though he does not document the numbers  Chesebrough
                    found that more Presbyterian ministers challenged the status quo than ministers from Baptist and
                    Methodist churches, and he reminds readers that the Presbyterian church was the one large
                    evangelical body that did not split before the war over exclusively sectional issues. But if
                    Chesebrough starts down the path of analysis, he leaves it far too quickly, with an abundance of
                    unanswered questions.
            There are other puzzles. The author opens the book by favorably quoting James Silver,
                    "Clergymen led the way to secession. … As no other group, Southern clergymen
                    were responsible for a state of mind which made secession possible" (p. 1). Later,
                    Chesebrough calls for historians of the nineteenth century to pay more attention to clerical
                    sources, advice that many historians would do well to heed. Yet he suggests that these writings
                    simply served to "reinforce beliefs that are currently and popularly held by giving them
                    divine sanction" (p. 89). Of course, ministers mirrored public sentiment, but did they not
                    also have the power to shape it? As James M. McPherson's For Cause and
                        Comrades (1997) has documented, in the Civil War many of the fighting men believed the
                    chaplains' message that the Christian soldier made the best soldier. That message came from
                    neither the politicians nor the generals but from the church.
            Chesebrough has done a service to historians of the antebellum South by bringing together the
                    scattered voices of clerical dissent in the Old South. For those interested in this topic, there is
                    no better place to begin.
            KURT BERENDS, St. Catherine's College, 
                        Oxford
                     University, 
                  Oxford, England
               , is currently completing a dissertation on the use of the
                    Bible by southern evangelicals in the Civil War era.
         
         
            
               For Cause and Comrades: Why Men Fought in the Civil War. By James M. McPherson. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1997. Pp. xviii, 237. Appendix, tables, note on sources, notes,
                    index. $25.00.)
            For decades historians have been trying to understand why Civil War soldiers fought. 
                        Princeton
                     University Professor James M. McPherson has wondered, too, and his search for an answer
                    is found in his new book, For Cause and Comrades.
            
            McPherson bases his study on a selection of 647 Federals and 429 Confederates drawn from some 25,000
                    personal letters and 259 diaries. He uses age, marriage status, regional origin, occupation, and
                    branch of service in an attempt to mirror the average soldier but admits that his group
                    underrepresents privates and nonslaveholding southern farmers, as well as foreign and black Union
                    troops. McPherson's sampling excludes draftees, substitutes, bounty recipients, deserters,
                    or skulkers. His study focuses on educated, middle-and upperclass  white officers and privates who enlisted early in the war and stayed in service until death,
                    wounds, or 
                        Appomattox
                     ended their tenure.
            McPherson divides his book into twelve chapters with a preface and an appendix. His preface, first
                    chapter, and appendix concentrate on justifying to readers his selection of sources, addressing
                    problems, and explaining his methodology. The remaining eleven chapters examine what he calls
                    "initial motivation," "sustaining motivation," and
                    "combat motivation."
            McPherson concludes that a good number of Civil War soldiers fought for strongly held principles. He
                    dismisses the notion that these men were apolitical mercenaries, hatred-filled fanatics, or
                    disillusioned cynics. He also rejects the argument that Americans in the mid-nineteenth century were
                    more violent or accepted death more freely than modern Americans. Drawing on studies of World War II
                    and 
                        Vietnam
                     veterans, he notes the importance of small-group cohesion, peer pressure, leadership,
                    and discipline but sees these factors tied to a strongly held belief system that wove distinctive
                    concepts of citizenship, liberty, community, nationalism, religion, order, honor, masculinity, and
                    racial attitudes into powerful, durable motivators. These men, the ones who first volunteered, saw
                    the most action, wrote more letters, died in greater numbers, believed in what they fought for.
                    McPherson also shows that northerners were not any less driven by patriotism, honor, duty, and
                    religion than southerners. Although there were significant differences in what words meant to each
                    side, McPherson contests that a core group of Civil War soldiers sincerely believed that they fought
                    for a higher, God-ordained "Cause."
            McPherson shows great faith in his sources, and despite his careful qualifications and
                    justifications, he contends that he comes closer than any other scholar in taking seriously and
                    listening carefully to the words soldiers used to explain their actions. He tells readers that he
                    allows men to speak for themselves, chiding historians who "read too much between the lines
                    of soldiers' letters" (p. 28) and those who have sought modern parallels in past
                    actions. However, when he finds gaps in the sources, McPherson asks readers to accept his
                    explanations without authoritative evidence to back him up. Existing sources show most Confederate
                    soldiers saying little about slavery, literate black Union soldiers writing mainly for public
                    consumption, and women frequently telling their husbands to come home. Nonetheless, McPherson argues
                    that the majority of southern soldiers supported slavery, the majority of soldiers' wives
                    supported their husbands, and the minority of literate blacks who published letters reflected
                    attitudes of their illiterate black comrades. As McPherson demonstrates, there are always gaps in
                    the written record, and every historian does a certain amount of speculating, whether acknowledged
                    or not.
            
            This study adds a great deal to knowledge of this bloody conflict. McPherson has assembled dramatic
                    words of soldiers who endured combat and has defined what those words meant in a specific time and
                    place. But language can be fluid, emotions can be inexpressible, and motivations to kill are not
                    always explainable.
            LESLEY J. GORDON is assistant professor of history, Murray
                    State University, 
                  Murray, Kentucky
               . She is currently completing a study of Confederate
                    General George E. Pickett.
         
         
            
               Letters of a Civil War Surgeon. Edited by Paul Fatout. (1961; reprint, West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Ind.: Purdue University Press, 1996. Pp. 174. Illustration, notes, bibliography,
                    index. Paperbound, $12.95.)
            
               Personal Memoirs of John H. Brinton, Civil War Surgeon, 1861–1865. By
                    John H. Brinton. (1914; reprint, Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1996. Pp. 351. Appendix, index. Paperbound, $14.95.)
            Published diaries and letters of Civil War doctors often give few details about actual medical work
                    and its relationship to military operations in general. More often they deal with boring aspects of
                    camp life with an occasional morbid amputation scene thrown in. These two classic works, which have
                    again been made available, are exceptions. They are distinctive, as both were written by highly
                    educated Pennsylvanians who had received college degrees before attending well-organized medical
                    schools in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Both were excellent observers who carefully described their various responsibilities
                    and commented as well on the political aspects of the Civil War at both national and military
                    levels.
            Major William Watson served for three years as surgeon of the 105th 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Volunteers in the Army of the Potomac. His Letters, edited by Paul
                    Fatout, detail the work of a senior regimental surgeon and give insight into his interaction with
                    medical and military hierarchies. They are sometimes technical yet interesting and personal since
                    his descriptions were to be read at home. In this collection readers will see the metamorphosis of
                    Watson's hard-fighting unit, which by the end of the war had none of its original officers
                    and few of its original soldiers. The detailed editorial comments maintain continuity and give
                    important perspective on the letters as well.
            
               The Personal Memoirs of John H. Brinton outlines the work of a surgeon who served
                    for four years in a variety of important assignments. He was brigade surgeon and acting medical
                    director for Ulysses S. Grant in the West in 1861 and had a long-term association with the general
                    as well. His descriptions of Grant and other military and civilian figures are of great interest.
                    Brinton was a flexible and apparently highly respected military doctor who worked effectively in
                    many different positions. He served as medical director of transportation  at 
                  Alexandria, Virginia
               , worked on a detail to draft a medical
                    history of the war, and helped to set up an army medical museum. He was later dropped from the
                    writing assignment because of his friendship with Surgeon General William A. Hammond when the latter
                    was cashiered for political reasons. Other duties included work at 
                        Gettysburg
                    , the medical directorship at 
                        Nashville
                    , and service as president of the Examining Board in 
                        Washington
                    . The memoirs give details of the complexity of the Army Medical Department that are
                    seldom seen in other writings.
            These two volumes are important complementary sources for historians interested in the medical
                    history of the Civil War and are highly recommended. Watson's letters, first published in
                    1961, provide a view of the work of a surgeon at the regimental level. Brinton's memoirs,
                    which first came out in 1914, alternatively demonstrate broader aspects of the medical bureaucracy
                    and provide many observations on key figures with whom he came in contact.
            RALPH C. GORDON is professor of pediatrics and human
                    development, 
                        Michigan State
                     University 
                        Kalamazoo
                     Center for Medical Studies, and adjunct associate professor of history, Western 
                        Michigan
                     University, 
                        Kalamazoo
                    . He has published articles in the 
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Historical Quarterly on the railway ambulance trains of the Army of the 
                        Cumberland
                     and on the work of the 
                        United States
                     Christian Commission in 
                        Nashville
                    .
         
         
            
               Medical Histories of Union Generals. By Jack D. Welsh. (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1996. Pp. xx, 422. Table, glossary, bibliography.
                    $35.00.)
            This work is a major contribution to Civil War scholarship. It reviews the medical problems,
                    accidents, and wounds of every general officer of the Union Army. The author has searched for
                    details of each officer's health in military and pension records, as well as published
                    material, including obituaries in local newspapers. For the graduates of the Military Academy at
                    West Point, Welsh even describes the medical complaints that the generals made when they were
                    cadets. Each listing includes details of the subject's final illness, giving the proposed
                    cause of death. The burial place of the final remains is also included.
            An appendix gives a list of all wounds, contusions, and other injuries occurring by date. Knowing the
                    date of a battle, the reader can use this table to determine the casualties of general officers. For
                    example, the casualty list from the bloody Battle of 
                        Antietam
                     includes twenty-one Union generals wounded, two injured in falls from horses, and one
                    who suffered a concussion. Three of the wounded died of their wounds, but no Union general was
                    killed in action at 
                        Antietam
                    .
            Look up your favorite general. Joshua Chamberlain, hero of 
                        Gettysburg
                    , was wounded twice and suffered from two serious illnesses during the Civil War. He
                    suffered for the remainder of his life from the wound he received at 
                        Petersburg
                    ; a fistula formed between  his urinary bladder and
                    the wound, and he leaked urine until his death in 1914.
            Look up your favorite Civil War incident. Your view of Stoneman's raid may change after you
                    realize the medical condition of General George Stoneman. His hemorrhoids became so severe that his
                    rectum prolapsed out of his anus. After the war he was unable to walk upright or even stand up
                    straight. The pension board argued about whether this disability was related to a wound; the
                    majority concluded that each blow of the saddle against his inflamed hemorrhoids could be considered
                    a wound. Stoneman received a disability pension.
            Although this work is an alphabetical list of hundreds of separate individuals, it can be read from
                    cover to cover. This litany of suffering before, during, and after the Civil War gives an engrossing
                    picture of nineteenth-century medicine, of the ills of the era, and of the immense misery produced
                    by this fratricidal war.
            This book takes its place alongside the author's study of Confederate generals to become a
                    required reference work for anyone with the slightest interest in the Civil War.
            FRANK R. FREEMON is the author of Microbes
                        and Minie Balls (1993), an annotated bibliography of Civil War medicine. His comparison of
                    the medical efforts by North and South during the Civil War will soon appear under the title Gangrene and Glory.
            
         
         
            
               America's Communal Utopias. Edited by Donald E. Pitzer. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1997. Pp. xxi, 537. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliographies, maps,
                    appendix, bibliographical essay, index. Clothbound, $60.00; paperbound,
                    $24.95.)
            In this volume Donald E. Pitzer has assembled a group of distinguished essayists, all of whom are
                    authorities on particular communal societies. The communal Utopias discussed in this collection
                    include some that appear in virtually every volume of this sort (e.g., the
                    Shakers, the Oneida Community, the Mormons, the Harmony Society, the Owenites) as well as others
                    that receive less attention (e.g., Roman Catholic religious orders, Theosophists,
                    Jewish agricultural colonies, the Koreshan Unity, and communal groups in colonial America). In
                    addition, there are essays dealing with Fourierism, the Amana colonies, the Icarians, Bishop Hill,
                    the Hutterites, Father Divine's movement, and socialist Utopias in 
                        California
                    . Pitzer's volume provides readers an excellent survey of the variety of
                    communal societies in the American experience.
            Each of the essays includes several helpful items: extensive endnotes, a timeline identifying the
                    most important dates in the story of the group in question, and a selected bibliography. In
                    addition, the volume contains a forty-five-page list of communal Utopias founded in America before
                    1965 and an annotated bibliographical essay. In toto, this volume represents a substantial
                    achievement.
            
            The challenge facing Pitzer was also substantial. How might he assure uniform coverage of groups that
                    were anything but uniform? For example, barely twenty pages are devoted to the more than two
                    centuries of Shaker history involving some twenty thousand Believers, whereas forty-seven pages
                    focus on the much more modest Owenite experiment involving a few hundred members during two decades.
                    Meanwhile, the task facing Lawrence J. McCrank, the author sketching the history of Roman Catholic
                    orders and monastic groups in America, exceeded that of all the other essayists. Not surprisingly,
                    one discovers some unevenness in the scope of the essays and in the amount of detail.
            It is not completely clear who the primary audience is for this volume. Those already familiar with
                    these groups will not discover much that is new. Those unfamiliar with these groups may find the
                    extensive annotation intimidating and unnecessary, especially in view of the redundancy that exists
                    among the endnotes, the selected bibliographies, and the bibliographical essay at the end of the
                    volume. Yet both specialists and the uninitiated will profit from this collection.
            In his opening essay Pitzer sketches what he calls a "developmental approach" to
                    the study of communal groups. That approach, he suggests, ties together the essays in this volume
                    and allows one to see how communal societies assume different forms at different stages of their
                    development. He sees this notion as an alternative to formulas that talk of communal success or
                    failure simply in terms of longevity. On the barrenness of the latter measure he is certainly
                    correct. Some of the essayists in this volume nod in their closing paragraphs to his
                    "developmental" notion, but those nods, frankly, do not add a great deal to an
                    understanding of these groups on either a theoretical or a historical level. Good historical writing
                    about such groups has always recognized that multiple influences gave rise to communal societies in
                    America and that their legacies live on in a variety of ways even after the communities themselves
                    have passed from the scene.
            STEPHEN J. STEIN, Chancellor's Professor and
                    chair of the Department of Religious Studies, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , is the author of The Shaker Experience in America: A History of the
                        United Society of Believers (1995).
         
         
            
               "And Prairie Dogs Weren't Kosher": Jewish Women in the
                        Upper Midwest since 1855. By Linda Mack Schloff. (
                        St. Paul
                    : 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society Press, 1996. Pp. x, 243. Illustrations, maps, graph, tables,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $29.95; paperbound, $14.95.)
            Linda Mack Schloff's "And Prairie Dogs Weren't
                        Kosher" offers readers an overview of the diversity of experiences of Jewish women
                    and their families in the Dakotas and 
                        Minnesota
                     from the mid-nineteenth  century to the present.
                    The first two chapters cover the Old World backgrounds and upper midwestern settlement patterns of
                    Jewish Americans. Chapter three explores domestic life, with special attention given to the dilemmas
                    of retaining Jewish religious traditions in isolated rural and small-town areas. Chapter four
                    examines women's employment patterns, including work on farms and in family enterprises, in
                    factories, and in white-collar occupations. The final chapters review women's participation
                    in synagogues and organizations that nurtured the Jewish community. Schloff explores two major
                    themes: women's roles in helping their families settle and adapt to rural, small-town, and
                    urban life in the upper Midwest and the ways in which women developed new roles for themselves as
                    women and as Jews. Much of Schloff s information pertains to the period from 1890 to 1920, but she
                    extends her story to the present in order to survey changes in women's roles within
                    Judaism, their families, and their communities.
            With such an ambitious range of topics and chronological scope, not all questions of historical
                    causation are clear. A much lengthier historical monograph would have been required to provide
                    detailed analysis of the book's subject mater. Clearly, such an analysis was not the
                    author's purpose. Schloff has succeeded in providing a provocative introduction to a
                    subject that she contends has been neglected in both regional and Jewish histories. The primary
                    source materials in the book are especially valuable. Schloff has collected voluminous photographs,
                    several of which are extraordinarily illuminating. Each chapter also includes a section of
                    "voices" that eloquently convey the diversity of experiences.
            Schloff s comparisons between Jewish settlement in the upper Midwest and the overwhelmingly urban
                    pattern on the East Coast underscore this theme of diversity. Although today only a few thousand
                    Jews in the region live outside 
                        Minneapolis
                    -
                        St. Paul
                    , significant numbers of Jews settled in small towns, especially in the Mesabi Iron
                    Range of northern 
                        Minnesota
                    , and about one thousand Jews also became homesteaders, an option available in the
                    Dakotas as late as 1910. Preserving religious traditions posed challenges for Jewish families
                    outside the larger towns and cities. A woman who grew up in Hebron, 
                        North Dakota
                    , recalled: 
                        We imported kosher meat from 
                                Minneapolis
                            , but when it came out by train … the stationmaster said [to my
                            father] "Jake, your package came." He said, "I know Pete. Dump
                            it. It smells way over here already." No refrigeration. How my mother managed to
                            feed all those kids with very little meat, I still don't know (p. 97).
                     Jews in many towns created synagogues, but in smaller communities and rural areas, families
                    gathered in homes where either traveling rabbis or local religious men conducted services. Schloff s
                    presentation of these stories of struggle "to create a Jewish life where little  or none existed" (p. 155) reveals much about the complex
                    intersections of geography, religion, and gender.
            BARBARA STEINSON is professor of history, DePauw
                    University, 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana. She is researching home extension in rural Indiana in the early twentieth
                    century.
         
         
            
               The North Western: A History of the 
                            Chicago
                         & North Western Railway System. By H. Roger Grant. (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1996. Pp. x, 292. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $49.95.)
            H. Roger Grant, one of the nation's most prolific scholars in the railroad field, tells the
                    story of the 
                        Chicago
                     & North Western Railway through well-documented research and skillful, readable
                    writing. Meeting objectives that he outlines in the preface, Grant describes the greatness of the
                    company and the ways in which it shaped the West, helped develop 
                        Chicago
                    , and contributed to the Dakota land boom. He also discusses the regulatory impact on
                    rail lines in later years.
            Grant traces the rise and decline of this one-time powerhouse of the prairies, which enjoyed solid
                    success during its youth, suffered later under inept administrations, and staggered through its
                    final days of downsizing and vainly attempting to reduce costs by absorbing major competitors.
            The first railroad to extend west from 
                        Chicago
                    , the North Western was organized as the Galena & 
                        Chicago
                     Union in 1836 but did not become operational until 1848. It headed for the rich mineral
                    deposits near 
                  Galena, Illinois
               , but terminated short of its goal and instead built to the
                        Mississippi River and subsequently to 
                        Omaha
                     and beyond. Despite important lines to 
                  Milwaukee, Minneapolis, Rapid City, South Dakota
               ,
                    and elsewhere, the western connection became the North Western's lifeline. The road was
                    unusually prosperous from the beginning, netting up to $400,000 annually and paying a 22
                    percent dividend as early as 1856.
            Meanwhile, a group of railroads in 
                        Wisconsin
                     and northern 
                        Illinois
                     became the 
                        Chicago
                     & North Western in 1859 and in 1865 merged with the Galena & 
                        Chicago
                     Union. The expanded system retained the 
                        Chicago
                     & North Western name and peaked at more than ten thousand miles after expanding
                    into the upper Midwest.
            Two strong presidents, William B. Ogden, the original promoter, and Marvin Hughitt, who served from
                    1887 to 1910, constructed a strong foundation by managing conservatively, insisting on quality, and
                    innovating wisely, yet in 1935, like many railroads during the Depression, the North Western slid
                    into bankruptcy. Although reorganized successfully, it never regained its earlier solidity. In a
                    startlingly frank discussion, Grant describes the parade of presidents, including 
                        Indianapolis
                     native Paul Feucht, who were incapable of stemming the downward slide.
            
            Despite such innovations as the "400" fleet of passenger trains, the road
                    languished until 1956 when Benjamin W. Heineman, an innovative and aggressive attorney, assumed
                    control. He found a rundown system that he hoped to strengthen by a merger with the 
                        Milwaukee
                     railroad and by the acquisition of the 
                        Rock Island
                    . Neither effort materialized, although in the 1960s the road acquired the smaller 
                        Chicago
                     Great Western and the 
                        Minneapolis
                     & 
                        St. Louis
                    , which it largely dismantled. Tiring of the battle, Heineman left the North Western,
                    which in 1972 was sold to the employees. This attempt at salvation also eventually failed, and a
                    merger became the means of survival. In 1995, Union Pacific, its western traffic partner, bought it.
            Not only does Grant weave an informative narrative of the road's organization, finances, and
                    operations, he adds human interest touches, such as the story of the unidentified "Little
                    Fellow," whose grave was cared for faithfully by 
                        Chicago
                     & North Western employees, and the explanation for the road's
                    left-handed running, which was determined by its early depot locations.
            RICHARD S. SIMONS, 
                        Marion
                    , Indiana, is coauthor of Railroads of Indiana (1997) and has
                    published eleven articles in the National Railway Historical Society's National Railway Bulletin. He is a past president of the Indiana Historical
                Society.
         
         
            
               Sovereign Nations or Reservations? An Economic History of American Indians. By
                    Terry L. Anderson. (
                        San Francisco
                    , Calif.: Pacific Research Institute for Public Policy, 1995. Tables, notes, references,
                    index. $19.95.)
            In this provocative book Terry L. Anderson sets out to show that Indian tribes have always been
                    characterized by individual initiative and by the same economic imperatives as other peoples. "Homo economicus was alive and well in the pre-European Indian
                    culture," he writes (p. 164), citing the private cultivation of fruit and nut trees, the
                    accumulation of horses as a measure of personal wealth, exclusive rights to fur resources, and other
                    examples as evidence of Indian private enterprise.
            Anderson mainly blames the dynamics of an ever-expanding federal government for the current economic
                    malaise of Indian tribes. He shows intriguingly how the Bureau of Indian Affairs created a new role
                    for itself in the late nineteenth century by micromanaging fragmented Indian lands during the very
                    period when reservations were supposedly being converted into the private property of Indian owners.
                    Anderson asks rhetorically: "Had the lands been given directly to Indians or whites, what
                    role would there have been for the Office of Indian Affairs" (p. 97)? While his account of
                    bureaucratic self-interest is acute, it oversimplifies. Federal Indian policy has always been
                    shaped, and often misshaped, by the collision of forces determined to  extinguish Indian tribes altogether and those equally determined to
                    find a lasting and secure place for Native Americans in mainstream America. In that complex,
                    zig-zagging process government has as often been a pawn as it has been a protagonist.
            In Anderson's view Indians were nonetheless well on their way to economic self-sufficiency
                    until they met up with the mystical John Collier, Franklin D. Roosevelt's commissioner of
                    Indian affairs and the architect of the Indian Recovery Act of 1934. This one-time 
                        New York
                     social worker was bent on reinventing an at least partly imaginary communal way of life
                    whether tribes wanted it or not. Collier terminated the allotment of tribal lands, which had been
                    the centerpiece of Indian policy since the 1880s, and presided over the creation of the tribal
                    governments that govern the nation's more than three hundred reservations today. Today, as
                    tribal sovereignty becomes a reality, the responsibility for releasing the long-frustrated
                    enterprise of tribal citizens will increasingly become the responsibility of those governments,
                    Anderson believes. "The future for Indians will depend on how well they can build on their
                    sovereign foundation," Anderson writes. "It simply will not do to accept that
                    Indian tribes survived because of their reverence for social and natural environments" (p.
                    176).
            Anderson warns that an undiscriminating determination to enhance every aspect of tribal sovereignty
                    will certainly improve the prospects of tribal politicians, but it may do little to improve tribal
                    economies. Unfortunately, he does not examine the larger consequences for the 
                        United States
                     of the creation of hundreds of sovereign mini-states whose constitutional role remains
                    unclear and whose governments lack the separation of powers that undergirds American democracy.
                    While Anderson's suspicion of the federal government's motivation sometimes seems
                    overstated, his sympathetic but clear-eyed view of Indian tribes is refreshing in an era when most
                    Americans' perceptions of Native Americans-and those of many policymakers as well-remain
                    skewed by guilt and romance.
            FERGUS M. BORDEWICH is the author of Killing
                        the White Man's Indian: Reinventing Native Americans at the End of the Twentieth
                        Century (1996).
         
         
            
               A Time for War: The 
                            United States
                         and 
                            Vietnam
                        , 1941–1975. By Robert D. Schulzinger. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1997. Pp. xiii, 397. Maps, illustrations, notes, select bibliography,
                    index. $35.00.)
            Robert D. Schulzinger, professor of history at the University of 
                        Colorado
                    , is an accomplished scholar with several publications on the history of American
                    foreign relations. His previous work has concentrated on Henry Kissinger and the 
                        United States
                     Foreign Service and includes a recent summary of American diplomacy in the twentieth
                    century. This book was Schulzinger's first attempt, however,  at a full-length study of the 
                        Vietnam
                     War. Regrettably, this effort falls far short of its intended goals. Schulzinger writes
                    in his preface that he hopes this book will serve as "a compendium of the current state of
                    scholarship on the 
                        Vietnam
                     War" (p. x). Unfortunately, Schulzinger has not kept up with the current state
                    of scholarship. Furthermore, he bases his study almost exclusively on 
                        Washington
                    -generated documents, drawing primarily from the Foreign Relations of the 
                            United States
                        
                series, The Pentagon Papers, and The
                        Congressional Record. At this stage in the development of 
                        Vietnam
                     War scholarship, is another standard narrative from the American perspective by a
                    non-specialist necessary? This book certainly will never replace the work of George Herring, Marilyn
                    Young, William Duiker, or William Turley.
            Most students of the war will find Schulzinger's lack of intimacy with the details of the
                    conflict frustrating. For example, he mislabels the 
                        Vietnam
                     Workers Party (p. 92), the National Front for the Liberation of 
                        South Vietnam
                     (pp. 70, 87), and the Provisional Revolutionary Government of 
                        South Vietnam
                     (pp. 305, 307, 310). In addition, there are serious biographical errors for key
                    Vietnamese leaders, including Le Duan and Ngo Dinh Diem. In several places he misspells Vietnamese
                    names (pp. 18,19,116–18, 385, 388). Furthermore, there is little mention of the character
                    of the National Liberation Front and its relationship with the Communists in Hanoi. A quick perusal
                    of Schulzinger's sources reveals very few Vietnamese documents, even though several studies
                    exist in English, and perhaps helps to explain his narrow scope and vision.
            There are other serious problems with this book. At times, Schulzinger's statements simply
                    ring hollow. For example, he writes of McGeorge Bundy's decision to step down as national
                    security advisor, remarking that "he was tired after five years in a grueling job"
                    (p. 208). In another instance Schulzinger suggests that Pham van Dong, prime minister of the
                    Democratic Republic of 
                        Vietnam
                    , "wanted the 
                        United States
                     to stop the bombing" of 
                        North Vietnam
                     (p. 250). Schulzinger further complicates this problem with a thin analysis of key
                    decisions in 
                        Washington
                     and Hanoi. In his concluding chapter, Schulzinger also engages in several
                    "counterfactuals" that detract from the seriousness of the work. In one instance
                    he writes, "Would the U.S. have lost the war in 
                        Vietnam
                     had Kennedy lived? The easiest answer is: We cannot know; history happens only one way.
                    The more complex answer is: Probably not" (p. 334)
            
               A Time for War is the first of two volumes, the second dealing more specifically
                    with the domestic consequences of the war. Perhaps Schulzinger will be on more familiar ground in
                    the next volume.
            ROBERT K. BRIGHAM is assistant professor of history,
                    Vassar College, 
                  Poughkeepsie, New York
               . He is the author of numerous essays and two
                    forthcoming books on the 
                        Vietnam
                     War.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               George Rapp's Disciples, Pioneers and Heirs: A Register of the Harmonists in
                        America. Compiled by Karl J. R. Arndt. Edited by Donald E. Pitzer and Leigh Ann Chamness. (
                        Evansville
                    : University of Southern Indiana Press, 1994. Pp. ii, 234. Map, bibliography, notes.
                    $22.95, plus $4.00 shipping. Order from USI Bookstore, 8600 University Blvd., 
                        Evansville
                    , IN 47712.) During his lifetime Karl J. R. Arndt was well known among scholars of
                    communitarianism for his work on the Harmony Society. After his death this book, a product of
                    decades of research, was published as a memorial. The book begins with a brief introduction to
                    George Rapp and the Harmonists and a discussion of the complex history of the Harmonists'
                    migration from 
                        Germany
                     to America. The bulk of the work, based on a wide variety of sources, is a list of
                    1,650 people, organized alphabetically by last name. Included in each entry is information on birth
                    and death (or withdrawal from the society) dates, parents' names, date of arrival in
                    America, occupation, and the dates each individual signed the society's membership
                    agreements. The book will be an invaluable resource for anyone interested in the history of the
                    Harmonists in America. Dawn E. Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Purdue University Calumet: The First Fifty Years. By Lance Trusty. (
                        Hammond
                    , Ind.: Purdue University Calumet, 1996. Pp. v, 150. Illustrations, index.
                    $25.00. Order from Office of Advancement, Purdue University Calumet, 
                        Hammond
                    , IN 46323.) This volume celebrates the fiftieth anniversary of Purdue
                    University's creation of a permanent extension in the Calumet region. Lance Trusty
                    describes Purdue's decision to open extension campuses in response to the G.I.
                    Bill-inspired enrollment boom of the later 1940s, the search for buildings for the extension, the
                    expansion of course offerings and operations in the 1950s and 1960s, struggles to maintain an
                    adequate budget, and the institution's effort to keep up with the pace of economic and
                    technological change. Also discussed are sports and the arts on campus, student politics, and the
                    careers of various administrators and faculty members. The volume is heavily illustrated with
                    photographs of professors, sports teams, student organizations and activities, and the unfortunate
                    haircuts of the 1970s. Andrew Denson, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The WPA Guide to 
                            Kentucky
                        : Compiled and Written by the Federal Writers' Project of the Works
                        Projects Administration for the State of 
                            Kentucky
                        . Edited by F. Kevin Simon. (1939; reprint, 
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1996. Pp. xxxv, 489. Maps, notes, illustrations, 
                    appendices, selective bibliography, index. Clothbound, $39.95; paperbound,
                    $19.95.) Devotees of the WPA state guide series will welcome the reprinting of the 1939
                    guide to the state of 
                        Kentucky
                    . The editor provides a new introduction that details both the history of the series and
                    of the volume itself, and Thomas Clark, one of the original contributors to the guide, offers a
                    fascinating preface. The guide, like the others in the series, is still a valuable resource for the
                    history of the state in the 1930s. As editor F. Kevin Simon observes, however, this state guide also
                    has a "lasting relevance" for its twenty extensively annotated driving tours, many
                    of which can still be followed. Dawn E. Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
