
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 24, Issue 4, pages 223-328. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:24+issue:4+year:1928&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Andrew Hoover Comes to Indiana
            By GRACE JULIAN CLARKE
            
            The unveiling last May of a Memorial to Andrew Hoover and Elizabeth Waymire Hoover and their ten
                    children in Starr Park, formerly the old 
                        Quaker
                     burying-ground at 
                        Richmond
                    , suggests the propriety of a further notice of one of the most remarkable of
                    Indiana's pioneer families.
            The Andrew Hoover thus commemorated was a son of Andreas Hiiber who emigrated from Baden Baden, 
                        Germany
                    , in the first half of the eighteenth century. So far as I know there is no tradition
                    among his descendants as to the exact date or place of his landing. Rupp's Thirty Thousand Names of Immigrants in 
                            Pennsylvania
                         from 1727-1776 lists Andreas Huber as having been one of one hundred ten
                    "Palatines imported in the scow Two Sisters, James Marshall, Commander, from Rotterdam,
                    last from Cowes".1 He was one of twenty-three boys under sixteen years
                    of age who were therefore not required to take the oath of allegiance. The vessel landed at 
                        Philadelphia
                    , September 9, 1738.
            
               
                  1 In order to increase the number of people In her American colonies 
                            England
                         encouraged immigration from the Lower Palatinate during those years. Germans in
                        particular were urged to come, as they bought land, were farmers, quiet and industrious,
                        depending on themselves. 
                            Pennsylvania
                         became an asylum for the distressed Protestants of the Palatinate, and the
                        flourishing condition of that colony was attributed largely to the industry of those people,
                        many of whom later drifted into 
                            Maryland
                         and the Carolmas. See Colonial Records.
            
            
            From facts that will appear farther on in this article, there seems to be no question that this lad
                    was the father of the Andrew whose name appears on the 
                        Richmond
                     Memorial. As no other of the name is noted as having landed on that date, it would
                    appear that Andreas was alone in his adventure so far as relatives are concerned. There is, however,
                    a family tradition to the effect that he was accompanied by two brothers, Christian and Jonas. A
                    careful search of the Rupp volume above mentioned reveals that a Christian Huber was among one
                    hundred eighty-eight Palatines imported on the ship Pink Plaisance which landed at 
                        Philadelphia
                     September 21, 1732. Another Christian Huber is listed as having come in the same way by
                    the ship Dragon, September 30, 1732. Possibly one of these was an older brother of
                    Andreas. But where was Jonas? Perhaps through some inadvertence his name was not recorded. I should
                    like to believe that the two older brothers preceded Andreas to the New World and were waiting to
                    welcome him on his arrival. But the circhmstances attending his coming will probably never be known.
                    Nothing has come down to us regarding his character nor his personal appearance. A few facts have
                    been preserved however and they are important.
            Judge David Hoover, a grandson, who laid out the city of Richmond, said that his grandfather left 
                        Germany
                     when a boy, married Margaret Fouts in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ,2 settled on Pipe Creek in 
                        Maryland
                    ,3 and removed from there to 
                        North Carolina
                    ; also, that he had eight sons and five daughters. These brief items appear in a Memoir, prepared by Judge Hoover in his seventy-third year and three years later
                    issued in pamphlet form by his nephew Isaac Hoover Julian, then a young man of thirty-three with an
                    appreciation unusual at that time of the importance of preserving such data. One sighs on reflecting
                    how much precious lore went unrecorded because there was no realization of the value succeeding
                    generations would place upon it.
            Another fact about the first Andrew (or Andreas, as I prefer to call him) is revealed by an old deed
                    now in the possession of his great-great-grandson, the present Andrew Hoover of 
                        Richmond
                    , who has wisely taken the precaution to frame the 
                  
                     2 Henry Hoover, a younger brother of David, who also left written
                            collections, says that his grandfather married Margaret Fouts in 
                                Maryland
                            . He says he never saw his grandfather, hut remembers his grandmother well and
                            that she died about 1797. Both David and Henry were advanced in years when they prepared
                            their records and may have been forgetful; their dates and statements do not always
                            coincide.
                  
                     3 Pipe Creek is in 
                        Carroll
                                county, Maryland
                     , just
                            across the border from 
                                Pennsylvania
                            .
               
                     document. This deed is to "An addition to the Mercy
                    Spring [tract] granted Andrew Hoover the 1st of August, 1748". The addition is described as
                    "Beginning at a bannded white oak standing on the east side of the Walk pit, a Draught of
                    little Pipe Creek, running thence, … and now laid out for 50 acres of land." The
                    deed is attested by "John Callahan, Regst. Office," and also bears the signatures,
                    very German in appearance, of "Andreas Huber" and "Margaret
                    Huber". These are the only autograhps, so far as known, of Margaret and Andreas, and they
                    show that these emigrants clung to their original German names, although, as the deed shows, they
                    had been Anglicised by others and their descendants have always been Hoovers.
            Andreas probably remained in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     at least during the two years immediately following his landing, for tradition does not
                    place him in 
                        Maryland
                     till 1740. Whether he met Margaret Fouts before leaving 
                        Pennsylvania
                     or at a later date, and in which State the marriage took place, we cannot be sure.
                    Judge Hoover's father, whose name was likewise Andrew, was born on Pipe Creek, in 1751 or
                    1752, having been preceded by a brother, Jonas, the oldest of thirteen children, the others being
                    Jacob, Daniel, David, John, Peter, Henry, Mary, Susannah, Elizabeth, Rachel and Catherine. Whether
                    this is the exact order of their ages, I do not know. It is from John, the sixth son, that Herbert
                    Hoover is descended, and this fact is sufficient to justify the closest scrunity into the record of
                    that youthful immigrant who ventured, apparently unattended, upon a journey beset with unknown
                    hazards to seek his fortune in a far country, where many of his descendants were to lead honorable
                    and useful lives, and one of them was to rise to world-wide renown.
            But this paper undertakes to deal chiefly with John's older brother Andrew and his family.
                    Born on Pipe Creek in 
                        Maryland
                    , he removed with his parents to 
                  Randolph
                        county, North Carolina
               .4 The Hoovers probably constituted part of a considerable exodus of Friends who
                    went from 
                        Maryland
                     to 
                        North Carolina
                     in the decade 1750-1760.5 There he developed into manhood under the
                    watchful eyes of Andreas and Margaret, surrounded by brothers and sisters, taking part in the tasks
                    and the sports incident to life in a backwoods settlement. Both 
                  
                     4 About 1754, according to David, but Henry places it some twelve
                            years later.
                  
                     5 Stephen B. Weeks, Southern Quakers and
                        Slavery.
                  
               
                     German and English were probably spoken in the family. They
                    were Quakers6 and doubtless zealous in maintaining the discipline. It is known
                    that the second Andrew was so straight-laced that he refused his consent to the marriage of his
                    daughter Rebecca with Isaac Julian on the ground that the latter was not a "birth-right
                        Friend".7
            
            Andrew Hoover married Elizabeth Waymire in 1776, the daughter of another German emigrant, John
                    Rudolph Waymire, a native of 
                        Hanover
                    , a soldier who had served both under George II. of 
                        England
                     and Frederick the Great of Prussia, and who was noted for his great height and physical
                    strength. Elizabeth is said to have been tall and slender, with very blue eyes, a musical voice, and
                    a smile that made for her friends wherever she went. Her grandchildren delighted to recall her
                    affectionate disposition, and one of them, who spent several months at the home of his grandparents
                    when a small boy, remembered sitting by her side among the elders at meeting, and also bounding in
                    to dinner when she called him from play, "Kom, Georg, kom zu hauzen!"
            Many of Rudolph Waymire's descendants have been extremely tall,8 while
                    the Hoovers are generally of medium height or below, and inclined to corpulence,9 two hundred pounds being an ordinary weight.10 Generally speaking, the
                    Waymires are fair and the Hoovers dark as to complexion. The latter are more taciturn. Both families
                    have been noted for firmness amounting almost to stubbornness, for integrity and for thrift. Their
                    physical constitutions have usually carried them well into the eighties.
            The home of Andrew and Elizabeth in 
                        North Carolina
                     was on a small stream called the Uwharrie, a branch of the Yadkin river. It was
                    customary to select homes on or near water, for obvious reasons, and settlements were designated by
                    such names as Goose Greek, Honey Creek, Gravelly Run, etc. Ten 
                  
                     6 Whether they united with the Society of Friends in 
                                Maryland
                             or 
                                North Carolina
                             is not certain. Henry Hoover says it was in 
                                North Carolina
                            .
                  
                     7
                            Autobiography of George W. Julian, mss. The Waymires were Lutherans,
                            evidence, Andrew Hoover himself married out of "meeting".
                  
                     8 He himself is reputed to have measured seven feet in height.
                  
                     9 "Rather stumpy, inclined to corpulency," says
                            Henry.
                  
                     10 The largest of the Indiana Hoovers I believe was Andrew's
                            son, Andrew, a farmer near 
                                Richmond
                             whose weight was three hundred pounds. It is said that he was obliged to hoe
                            with one hand, as he could not grasp the implement with both hands owing to his enormous
                            paunch. He is said to have worn slippers on all occasions because he could not reach down to
                            tie his shoes or draw on boots. A grand-niece reports being taken to call on him when she
                            was a child and of being much impressed with the very long stemof his pipe, almost a yard in
                            length. On asking the reason, she was told that one day his pipe had tipped over and the hot
                            tobacco ashes had badly burned him, whereupon he had made a long stem as a precaution
                            against future accidents.
               
                     children were born in that Uwharrie cabin,—Mary
                    (1777), Elizabeth (1779), David (1781), Frederick (1783), Susannah (1785), Henry (1788), Rebecca
                    (1791), Andrew (1793), Catherine (1796), and Sarah (1798). All of these married, and it is not
                    surprising that when Andrew Hoover died, at the age of eighty-three, he left more than a hundred
                        desecendants.11 The death of his wife Elizabeth had occurred a few months
                    earlier.
            Scholastic advantages were not numerous in the Uwharrie neighborhood and it is not to be wondered at
                    that the accomplishments of these young Hoovers did not go beyond reading, writing and ciphering.12 Commenting on the limited intelligence of the community in which he was
                    reared David Hoover declares that he had no opportunity to read a newspaper nor did he see a bank
                    note until he was "a man grown."
            When David was twenty-one years of age an important event occurred in the family circle, namely the
                    removal to the Northwest Territory. This step was not taken hastily nor without valid reasons.
                    Although they had resided in 
                        North Carolina
                     for many years and were surrounded by relatives, friends and acquaintances of the same
                    religious faith,13 their minds had never been at ease on the subject of slavery.
                    Many Quakers held slaves at that time and even later, but testimonies against the practice were
                    increasingly numerous and manumissions took place from time to time at the bidding of "the
                    still small voice". The Hoovers had never held slaves, and the idea of living in close
                    proximity to the institution became more and more distasteful. This fact, coupled with two
                    successive floods which carried away fences, mills and even houses, resulting in the loss of growing
                    crops and livestock, led to a definite determination to seek another location.
            They were not the first of the 
                        North Carolina
                     Friends to take this step. Since about the year 1782, there had been migrations towards
                    the Northwest, but these were not favored by the 
                        North Carolina
                     Yearly Meeting, nor by Quarterly and Monthly meetings.14 The
                    removals continued, however, with the result that whole communities in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana were later made up almost entirely of 
                        North Carolina
                     Quakers.
            
               
                  11 David Hoover's Memoir, note.
               
                  12 "As far as double position," says Henry. He also says
                        that his father's library consisted of the Bible, Theodore
                        Chalkley's Journal, the Memoirs of John Whiting, the Life of Richard
                        Daves, and the Journal of Robert Scott.
               
               
                  13
                        
                            Guilford
                         and 
                            Randolph counties
                         were almost entirely settled by Quakers.
               
                  14 Stephen B. Weeks, Southern Quakers and Slavery, pp.
                        255 et seq.
               
            
            
            Henry Hoover's "sketch" contains many of the same facts found in
                    David's Memoir, with some additional data, and upon these two records I
                    draw for the story of their westward migration. There was evidently a strong bent towards writing
                    among the children of Andrew and Elizabeth, for another son, Frederick, left in Mss. much interesting material, and their daughter Rebecca, who became the wife of Isaac
                    Julian, wrote a short sketch of pioneer experiences which appears in Young's History of 
                            Wayne County
                        
                and elsewhere.
            Having heard favorably of the country called "the Miamis" in 
                        Ohio
                    , whither some of their neighbors had already gone, An drew Hoover and five of his
                        brothers15 set forth on horseback in the autumn of the year 1800 to inspect
                    this region. "They crossed the Blue Ridge," says Henry, "and [continued)
                    down the Kanawha to the Ohio River where my uncle John Moss had a few years
                    before settled. They then crossed the river, thence to 
                        Chillicothe
                    , and thence to Waynesville, a village on the Little 
                        Miami
                     settled by Friends, of which Society my father and family were members. After a cursory
                    view of the country now 
                        Warren
                     and 
                        Montgomery counties
                    , they started for their homes…. Crossing the 
                        Ohio
                     at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , a town of five hundred inhabitants, thence to 
                        Lexington
                    , thence to Crab Orchard, 
                        Cumberland
                     Gap and Old 
                        Randolph
                    , quite pleased with the new country they had visited."
            Preparations for removal were soon begun and about a year later all of these except Andrew, having
                    disposed of their farms, set out for their new homes along the same route by which the party of
                    inspection had returned the preceding fall, that is, by way of Cumberland Gap and Cincinnati.16 Why Andrew Hoover did not go at this time, whether because he could not
                    complete the sale of his property or for what other reason, is not known. Application for
                    certificates of removal was made on "26 da. 6 mo. 1802" by Andrew Hoover for
                    himself and three sons, Frederick, Henry and Andrew, David applying at a later time. These
                    certificates were from the 
                        Back Creek
                     Monthly Meeting in 
                  Randolph county, North Carolina
               , to the Westland Monthly Meeting
                    in 
                  Washington county, Pennsylvania
               , which although three hundred miles from the new home,
                    was the nearest meeting until the 
                        Miami
                     Monthly Meeting, 
                  
                     15 David, Daniel, John, Peter and Henry.
                  
                     16 The husband of Andrew Hoover's eldest daughter, Thomas
                            Newman, was with this party.
               
                     the first in what was then known as "The
                    West" was opened in 1803.
            On the 19th of September, 1802, Andrew and his family left their old home on the Uwharrie, where the
                    ten children had been born, their househould goods loaded on a wagon, and wended their way towards
                    the great Northwest. Andreas and Margaret had been gathered to their fathers, the former some
                    fifteen years earlier than his helpmate, it is said, and Jonas and Jacob were the only members of
                    the family who remained in 
                        North Carolina
                    .
            Young David was deeply conscious of the seriousness of the move. "Although I have lived to
                    be an old man" says he in his Memoir, "and experienced the
                    various vicissitudes attendant on a journey through life thus far, I yet look back to that time as
                    the most interesting scene through which I have passed. My mind at this day is often carried back to
                    my early associations and school-boy days, to my native hills and pine forests; and I can truly say
                    that there is a kind of indescribable charm in the very name of my natal spot, very different from
                    aught that pertains to any other place on the globe."
            The journey from the Uwharrie to 
                        Cincinnati
                     occupied some five weeks. From there they proceeded to 
                        Hamilton
                    , says Henry, "where stood a blockhouse used as a place of defense in St.
                    Clair's and Wayne's Indian wars, thence to 
                        Dayton
                    , a village of a few buckeye cabins in a thicket of hazel bushes, thense across Mad
                    River and the Great 
                        Miami
                    , and up Stillwater to the cabin of my uncle David Hoover." The uncle David
                    here mentioned was a younger son of Andreas and Margaret and one of those who had come West the
                    preceding year." He and his brothers had raised good crops of corn, pumpkins and cabbages,
                    but had been so afflicted with ague that Andrew was led seriously to consider returning to 
                        North Carolina
                     and would probably have done so but for the emphatic protest of his son David, who
                    declared that if obliged "to drive a team back to old 
                        Randolph
                     or be hanged, he would hang."18 Cold weather soon set in
                    and they spent the winter in a rail pen, constructed with one side open, where they had a
                    "log-heap" fire, an unbroken forest all about them: that is, Elizabeth and the
                    children wintered there, the father of the family being cared for in 
                  
                     17 He helped lay out the town of Union, in 
                                Ohio
                            , and served at Justice of the Peace for fifteen yean. He was alto a member of
                            the 
                                Ohio
                             Legislature one term.
                  
                     18 Henry Hoover's account.
               
                     the more comfortable cabin of his brother David, owing to his
                    feet having been severely frosted while on a trip to the mill at Stanton in company with his sons
                    Frederick and Henry.19
            
            "In the month of March" continues Henry, "father rode to Uncle Edward
                        Kinley's20 near Waynesville, and while there bought a farm of one
                    hundred and ninety acres five miles north of Waynesville and four miles northeast of 
                        Lebanon
                    
               21 to which we moved in the month of April. The farm had five acres
                    in wheat and five in rye, and we were to have one half of the wheat. We planted some ten acres in
                    corn, all very productive." While the family resided there the county of 
                        Warren
                     was organized and Henry describes his first visit to a court of law, where he saw Judge
                    Dunlavy, lawyers St. Clair, Burnet, Gano and Longworth, and Sheriff Harlan. He often attended
                    Friends' "indulged meeting" at Waynesville, and was present when the
                    first Monthly Meeting was organized in that region. The purchase of this farm, however, did not mean
                    a permanent location, but rather a base from which tours of investigation could be made, and on
                    David, the oldest son, Andrew seems to have relied for selecting the best home site. David furnishes
                    an interesting description of the process of selecting the land on which Hoover homes were to be
                    established: 
                        We were hard to please. We Carolinians would scarcely look at the best land where spring
                            water was lacking…. We examined divers sections of the unsettled parts of 
                                Ohio
                             without finding any location that would please us. John Smith, Robert Hill and
                            myself partially examined the country between the Falls of the 
                                Ohio
                             and 
                                Vincennes
                             before there was a line run in that part of the Territory; and returned much
                            discouraged, as we found nothing inviting in that quarter. Thus time passed on until the
                            spring of 1806, when myself and four others, rather accidentally, took a section line some
                            eight or ten miles north of 
                                Dayton
                             and traced it a distance of more than thirty miles, through an unbroken forest,
                            to where I am now writing.22 It was the last of February or the first of
                            March when I first saw Whitewater. On my return to my father's I told him I thought
                            I had found the country we had been in search of. Spring water, timber and building rock
                            appeared to be abundant, and the face of the country looked delightful. In about three weeks
                            after this, my father with several others28 accompanied me to this
                            "land 
                        
                                    19
                                    Ibid.
                                
                        
                           20 Edward Kinley had married Margaret Waymire, daughter of
                                    John Rudolph Way-mire and sister of Elizabeth, Andrew Hoover's wife.
                        
                           21 At the head of Clear Creek, between the Miamis,"
                                    says Frederick Hoover.
                        
                           22 About a mile and a half northeast of 
                                        Richmond
                                    . David Hoover's compass and the "Jacob's
                                    staff on which it rested are now in the possession of his grandson, Andrew Hoover of 
                                        Richmond
                                    .
                        
                           23 John Smith was one of these.
                     
                             of promise"…. On returning from
                            this trip we saw stakes sticking among the beech trees where Eaton now stands, which was
                            among the nearest approaches of the white man to this place.24 With the
                            exception of George Holman and a few others who [had] settled some miles south of this in
                            the spring of 1805, there were but few families within 20 miles of this place.25
                  
                        It was not until the last of May or first of June that the first entries were made. John
                            Smith then entered south of Main street, where 
                                Richmond
                             now stands, and several other tracts. My father entered the land upon which I
                            now live, I having selected it on my first trip, and several other quarter sections. About
                            harvest of this year Jeremiah Cox reached here from good old 
                                North Carolina
                             and purchased where the north part of 
                                Richmond
                             now stands.26 If I mistake not, it had been previously
                            entered by John Meek, the father of Jesse Meek, and had been transferred to Joseph Woodkirk
                            of whom J. Cox made the purchase. Said Cox and my father were looked upon as rather leaders
                            in the Society of Friends. Their location here had a tendency of drawing others and soon
                            caused a great rush to Whitewater; and land that I had thought would hardly ever be settled
                            was taken up and improved. Had I a little more vanity I might almost claim the credit of
                            having been the pioneer of the great body of Friends now to be found in this region, as I
                            think it very doubtful whether three Yearly Meetings would convene in this county had not I
                            traced the line before mentioned.27
                  
                    
            
            The location having been chosen and entries made, three of Andrew's sons, David, Frederick
                    and Henry, accompanied by two sons-in-law, William Bulla28 and Elijah Wright29 started for the Whitewater country (August, 1806) in a four-horse wagon,
                    taking with them axes, planes and other tools necessary for felling trees and building cabins. They
                    first erected a rail tent for shelter during their stay. All were young and the future doubtless
                    looked as rosy to them as it does to the most favored youth of our day. They rose early, did their
                    own cooking, had an abundance of honey from bee trees and game from the surrounding forest, and when
                    night came slept the sleep of healthful exhaustion. Having built four log cabins they returned to
                    Stillwater, and the following month, Frederick Hoover, who had recently married Catherine Yount, and
                    Elijah 
                  
                     24 Henry Hoover reports one log cabin there, which had been
                            "built for a tavern by David Hendricks."
                  
                     25 Richard Rue and Thomas McCoy had come with Holman from 
                                Kentucky
                            . Rue and Holman had served under Gen. George Rogers Clark and both had been
                            held as prisoners by the Indians for more than three years. See Young, History
                                of 
                                    Wayne County
                                
                     , p. 27.
                  
                     26 Cox was a member of the convention which formed the first
                            constitution of this State in 1816.
                  
                     27 On the occasion of the Diamond Jubilee of Earlham College in 1922
                            this honor was accorded David Hoover in the beautiful pageant there presented.
                  
                     28 Husband of Elizabeth Hoover.
                  
                     29 Husband of Susannab Hoover.
               
                     Wright30 moved to their new homes, to be
                    followed in March, 1807, by Andrew Hoover and family. David's narrative continues the
                    story: 
                        I was now in the twenty-fifth year of my age and thus far had been rather a way-faring
                            disciple, not doing much for myself or any other person. Having now selected a spot for a
                            home, I thought the time had come to be up and doing. I therefore married a girl named
                            Catherine Yount31 near the Great 
                                Miami
                            , and on the last day of March, 1807, [we] reached with our little plunder the
                            hill where I am now living…….This may emphatically be said to have
                            been the day of log cabins and log rollings, and although we were in an unbroken forest,
                            without even a blaized pathway from one settlement to another, we yet enjoyed a friendship
                            and neighborly exchange of kind offices which are unknown at this time Although we had to
                            step on puncheon floors and eat our corn-bread and venisen or wild turkey off of broad
                            pieces of split timber, and drive forks in one corner of our cabins, with cross timbers
                            driven into the wall for bedsteads, there was no grumbling or complainings of low markets
                            and hard times.
                    
            
            Henry Hoover likewise viewed "with pleasing emotions those days when the sound of the ax and
                    the mill were undisputed signs of obtaining a livelihood. Our race had not become effeminate [this
                    was written in 1850], nor had our appetites become accustomed to the fumes of tea and coffee, with
                    those diseases which lurk behind sweetmeats and jellies."
            Of similar tenor were the words of their sister Rebecca: 
                        We were not what would be called fashionable cooks: we had no pound-cakes, preserves or
                            jellies, but the substantial, prepared in plain, honest, old-fashioned style. This is one
                            reason why we were so blessed with health—we had none of your dainties,
                            nick-nacks, and many fixings that are worse than nothing. There are many diseases that we
                            never even heard of thirty or forty years ago, such as dyspepsia, neuralgia, and many others
                            too tedious to mention. It was not fashionable at that time to be weakly.
                            We could take our spinning-wheels and walk two miles to a spinning frolic, do our
                            day's work, and after a first-rate supper join in some innocent amusement for the
                            evening.
                    
            
            Frederick Hoover has left an interesting account of the log-cabins of that time, which he thus
                    concludes: 
                        For be it known, in those days we wore homespun and lived a happy life. Placed on an
                            equality, there were no aristocrats who were looked up to. But times have changed, the
                            cabins are gone and so are many of their inmates. A new generation occupies their places,
                            and with these many inventions have been introduced without materially adding to the peace
                            or 
                        
                           30 Daughter of Henry Yount and Mariann Waymire, and hence
                                    Frederick's first cousin.
                        
                           31 Daughter of John Yount and first cousin of
                                    Frederick's wife, but not related by blood to either the Hoovers or the
                                    Waymires.
                     
                             comfort of society. We now wear manufactured clothes,
                            fine and glossy, travel with the speed of the storm [this was in 1855], live in costly
                            houses, and work hard to keep up appearances.
                    
            
            It is evident that the children of Friend Andrew Hoover were no better pleased with some aspects of
                    the march of civilization than are many of the present generation.
            The 
                        Ohio
                     farm had been sold for seven dollars per acre, an advance of three dollars per acre
                    over the price paid for it three years before, and, as the maintenance of the family had probably
                    been largely supplied by the land's yield, Andrew Hoover must have arrived in Indiana with
                    more than he had when he left 
                        North Carolina
                    .32 Several of his children were married and settled on farms near
                    him. Old friends from 
                        North Carolina
                     came on from time to time and established homes in the neighborhood. He was thoroughly
                    pleased with the new location and at the age of fifty odd was probably a contented man. He no doubt
                    thought often of the old home on the Uwharrie, and of Andreas and Margaret now gone: family ties are
                    strong with the Hoovers. But only two of his brothers were left back there in 
                        North Carolina
                    . Of the five who came away in advance of him, Daniel, David and John stopped in 
                        Ohio
                    ,33 while Peter and Henry came to Indiana and settled on
                    Green's Fork, not far from the home of Andrew. Three of his wife's brothers,
                    Jacob, David and Rudolph Waymire, were also established near by, and although the country was a
                    wilderness for the most part, there were probably occasional visits exchanged among these pioneer
                    Friends. It is not possible for us adequately to envisage their situation, but life's
                    pleasures doubtless far outweighted its discomforts and privations.
            As time passed and the country was cleared and settled, 
                        Richmond
                     began to be a town of importance, although the county-seat was some six miles to the
                    west, first at 
                        Salisbury
                     and later at Centreville. As has been intimated, Andrew Hoover set great store by the
                    Society of Friends and the character of the settlement as a center of Quakerism gave him genuine
                    satisfaction. Both he and Eizabeth were elders in the Society, and devoted to its interests. Their
                    son Henry is the 
                  
                     32 "He was then worth rising of two thousand
                            dollars", says David, "which at that time and in that country was
                            considered very considerably over an average in point of wealth." "An
                            enormous sum in those days of rope traces and hickory wythes", according to Henry.
                  
                     33 They afterwards died there. John Hoover was the ancestor of Herbert
                            Hoover, who was born in 
                                Iowa
                            .
               
                     only one of the children who has left on record even a brief
                    appraisal of their characters. He says his father was a zealous church member, riding "many
                    miles as a pilot to traveling preachers in the wilderness country", that he never missed a
                    meeting except through dire necessity, and that he thought the "Quakers right, and they
                    only". He had the courage to join the Hicksite or liberal branch of the society on the
                    occasion of the visit of Elias Hicks to 
                        Richmond
                     in 1828 and was consequently turned out of Meeting, which made him unhappy the rest of
                    his life. Henry thinks that his father was too sensitive in regard to this, adding that it was
                    "a subject on which he was uncontrollable". He says that his father was
                    "a man punctual in the payment of his debts, very seldom contracting any, and moderate in
                    his desire for this world's wealth".
            Of his mother, he declares that the word mother in all the fullness of its meaning
                    could justly be applied to her. He says that she was "no sectarian, no bigot", but
                    regarded all the different sects as children of our heavenly Father, placing emphasis on
                    "the goodness of the heart, the devotional frame of mind, and not [on] the name of 
                        Quaker
                     or any other name." He declares that the temperaments of his parents were
                    unlike, but the only instance of disquietude on this account to which he refers was that when other
                    religious denominations were under review his mother was more tolerant. "But they have
                    passed", he concludes, "and their children would do well to walk as they
                    walked."
            The children, whose names are engraved with those of their parents on the Memorial in Starr Park, all
                    led worthy lives and stood for the fundamental verities. They were men and women of earnest
                    convictions, serious by nature yet not without humor, kindly disposed towards their fellows,
                    thrifty, unassuming, and of strong domestic attachments. On some of them we can pass a more intimate
                    judgment because of written records left by them, while others challenge attention by reason of
                    having left children who rose to public station. Mary, the eldest, who married Thomas Newman and
                    died in 
                        Ohio
                     at the age of twenty-nine, left five children, the youngest of whom, John S. Newman,
                    was reared by his grandfather on the farm near 
                        Richmond
                    . On reaching maturity he went to Centreville and entered the office of his Uncle David
                    Hoover, then clerk of the 
                        Wayne county
                     court, where he read law and was admitted  to
                    practice, later becoming a partner in the mercantile business of his father-in-law, Samual Hannah.
                    He was elected to the Legislature, was president of the Whitewater Canal Company, sat in the
                    Constitutional Convention of 1851, and in the same year became President of the Indiana Central
                    Railway. In 1860 he removed to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he became President of the Merchants' National Bank. He died at the age
                    of seventy-seven.
            Elizabeth Hoover, the second child, was married before the family left 
                        North Carolina
                     to William Bulla, a Friend, whose humanity and love of liberty led to his keeping a
                    station on the Underground Railway. Both he and his wife were also advocates of universal peace and
                    bore frequent testimonies against war.
            David Hoover is the best-known of the children of Andrew and Elizabeth, largely because he was for
                    many years in public office; his published Memoir too has helped to keep his name
                    before the people. This is not a finished piece of work, but merely some random recollections,
                    together with his views on sundry subjects, such as politics, religion, slavery and war. Its
                    unstudied frankness and the fact that he was a part of all that he describes give it a real value.
                    Having with his primitive instruments traced the route from his father's home near
                            
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , to eastern Indiana, it is not surprising that he was called on to
                    lay off the city of 
                        Richmond
                    . He also gave it its name. It seems that it was originally known as Smithville, in
                    honor of John Smith, one of the first proprietors, but this proving unsatisfactory, a committee
                    consisting of Thomas Rob-bards, James Pegg and David Hoover was chosen to select a more suitable
                    name. Hoover's suggestion was adopted by the committee. He was evidently regarded as an
                    unusually efficient young man, for Jeremiah Cox, John Smith and other pioneers frequently called on
                    him for clerical services, such as the writing of deeds, and while he was yet in his twenties he was
                    appointed a Justice of the Peace in 
                        Wayne county
                    . In 1815, he became an associate judge of the Circuit Court and two years later was
                    elected clerk of that court, an office held by him for fourteen years. He served six years as State
                    senator, a Democrat elected from a 
                        Whig county
                    . It was during his legislative service that Edward A. Hannegan was sent to the 
                        United States
                     Senate over Oliver H. Smith and Tilghman A. Howard.  David Hoover of 
                        Wayne county
                     and Daniel Kelso of 
                        Switzerland county
                     were credited with having been the deciding factors in this, one of the most exciting
                    contests known to our legislative history.34 The following passages from the
                    close of Judge Hoover's Memoir admirably reveal his moral code: 
                        In politics I profess to belong to the Jeffersonian school. I view Thomas Jefferson as
                            decidedly the greatest statesman that America has yet produced. He was the chief apostle of
                            both political and religious liberty. My motto is taken from his first Inaugural:
                            "Equal and exact justice to all men"—and I will
                            add—without calling in question their political or religious faith, country or
                            color.
                        I am a firm believer in the Christian religion, though not as lived up to by most of its
                            professors of the present day. In the language of Jefferson, I look upon the
                            "Christian philosophy as the most sublime and benevolent, but most perverted system
                            that ever shone on man". I have no use for the priesthood, nor can I abide the
                            shackles of sectarian dogmas. I see no necessity for confessions of faith, creeds, forms and
                            ceremonies. In the most comprehensive sense of the word I am opposed to all wars, and to
                            slavery; and trust that the time is not far distant when they will be numbered among the
                            things that were, and viewed as we now look back upon some of the doings of what we are
                            pleased to style the dark ages.
                    
            
            David Hoover died in 1866 at the age of eighty-five years, a year after the death of his wife. They
                    were the parents of ten children.
            Frederick Hoover, the fourth child and second son of Andrew and Elizabeth, and the first of the
                    family who actually settled in 
                        Wayne county
                    , was a farmer and spent nearly all his life on land near his father's home. He
                    seems to have been of a serene and contented nature, without ambition for public preferment, fond of
                    reading, as were his brothers, and with a marked religious bent. Like all the Hoovers, he did his
                    own thinking and was not greatly disturbed when it did not coincide with the notions prevailing in
                    his neighborhood. He was fond of writing and did not hesitate to address President Polk on the
                    wickedness of our war with 
                        Mexico
                    . As Andrew grew older he was accustomed to employ Frederick as his amanuensis, and
                    there is a sharply pointed letter to a minister of the Orthodox Friends who had rebuked the elder
                    Hoover for following "that deluded old man, Elias Hicks". Frederick left in 
                  
                     34 William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Early Indiana, p. 212. See also Oliver H. Smith, Early
                                Indiana Trials and Sketches, pp. 353-355.
               
                     a manuscript a number of dissertations, nearly all on religious
                    themes, such as "A Brief View of the Spirit of Anti-Christ as Exhibited in the World at
                    Large and Latterly in the Society of Friends", "On the Different Views of the
                    Deity", etc. He and his father were in entire agreement as to the division in the 
                        Quaker
                     church, but he showed a more philosophic spirit. Both were disowned by the Orthodox
                    Friends because of their liberal opinions, and Frederick was later "separated"
                    from his own Meeting because he took the side of James and Lucretia Mott who were condemned by
                    Richmond Friends on the occasion of their visit there in 1847, ostensibly because of their disregard
                    of the "discipline" but actually on account of their antislavery views and
                    testimonies. Perhaps the most interesting paper left by Frederick Hoover is an account of a visit
                    made by himself and wife in the spring and summer of 1843 to 
                        Philadelphia
                    . They also went down into 
                        Maryland
                    . They traveled in their own horse-drawn carriage and attended Friends'
                    meetings wherever they stopped. The existence of slavery greatly oppressed them. "The more
                    I see of slavery" he writes as he journeys along, "the more hideous it
                    appears…
            Nearly all classes participate in its blasting effect." But he was without bitterness and
                    adds: "If my lot had been cast amongst it and its advocates I might have become familiar
                    with it and participated in it: even so frail a thing is man."
            Frederick Hoover too lived to the age of eighty-five, but during the last two years his mind was
                    clouded, his one satisfaction being attendance at Friends' meetings.
            I have an impression that Henry Hoover, five years younger than Frederick, was the most companionable
                    of all the children of Andrew. The written matter left by him covers a wider field and is more
                    sprightly than that of the others who wrote. He was the handsomest of the family and his pictures
                    indicate a jovial disposition. The faces of David, Frederick and Rebecca are very serious, as if the
                    cares and perplexities of life had outnumbered its joys. But the eyes of Henry and his brother
                    Andrew have a merry gleam, that perhaps came from Elizabeth Waymire, of the musical voice and
                    tolerant spirit. Henry was only fourteen years of age when his father secured those certificates of
                    removal from the 
                        Back Creek
                     Monthly Meeting in 
                        North Carolina
                    , and was not yet  eighteen when they reached the
                    Whitewater valley, which was then in 
                        Dearborn county
                    , Indiana Territory. The new farm occupied much of his time of course, but being
                    ambitious for further schooling, and especially to know more about English grammar, he placed
                    himself under the guidance of James 
                        Brown
                    , a young Kentuckian who was afterwards elected to the Legislature which then sat at
                    Corydon. This schooling lasted only a brief while, partly due to the fact that the pupil, to use his
                    own words, "was full of fun and frolic, which was often a discomfort to my father, and the
                    parental discipline which my father held over me seemed to my mind quite stringent. I now
                    acknowledge its equity, and in all probability it has saved me from many an anxious thought as well
                    as from many guilty fears."
            Henry says that up to his twenty-first year he had determined "to steer clear of the charge
                    and trouble of a family", not from indifference to the fair sex: he liked "the
                    whole neighborhood of girls" and "passed off many happy hours" with them.
                    But when he saw his older brothers in homes of their own and reflected that his parents would in a
                    few years "go the way of all the living", his thoughts took a different turn.
            
                    My father had pointed out to me a lot of land which I might call my own, and having settled every
                        disputed point, with axe in hand I entered the thicket and commenced operations. At this age I
                        was considered rather smart with the maul and wedge. I trust I shall not be censured for
                        boasting in an occupation which in this refined age [about 1850] is considered ungentlemanly and
                        submitted to only when dire necessity is the plea. In the winter of 1808, I partially cleared
                        eight acres, and in the spring of 1890 my sister Bebeckah was married to a fresh Carolinian by
                        the name of Isaac Julian, who when thus married moved into my cabin and together we fenced and
                        cleared and put in corn said eight acres which yielded abundantly together with a fine lot of
                        potatoes.
                
            In due time Henry was married, "according to the good order used among Friends",
                    and the Julians moved to a cabin of their own. Henry's bride was Susannah Clark, daughter
                    of John Clark, another 
                        North Carolina
                     emigrant, and seven children were the result of this union.
            The 
                        Richmond
                     Hoovers were generally Democrats, although strongly antislavery. They deplored the
                    Government's treatment of the Indians, and refused to bear any part in the War of 1812.
                    When Henry was called out at that time and would neither go nor pay a fine of $16.00
                    adjudged against him by a  court martial, a sergeant drove off
                    his sheep and sold them. He says that compliance with the order would have ejected him from the
                    Meeting [Friends] and would moreover have brought trouble upon his parents who had taught him that
                    all wars were contrary to the teachings of Jesus.35 The three brothers, David,
                    Frederick and Henry all testified strongly against the treatment of the Quakers during that period.
                    Henry mentions the case of an old man, Jacob Elliott, who because he had criticised the military
                    board, was arrested for treason, tried, and sentenced to be shot at daybreak, but "in mercy
                    an opportunity was given him to run which he hastily embraced."
            In 1825, Henry was elected to the Indiana Legislature, which now met for the first time in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and was six times re-elected. He was quite as outspoken as was David in his
                    denunciation of "the damnable scheme" of internal improvements and "the
                    hungry hounds" and "cormorants" who deluded the people into its support.
                    In 1832, he was appointed by the Secretary of War, Gen. Cass, secretary of the commission to
                    negotiate treaties with the 
                        Miami
                     and Pottawatomi Indians, and his account of this transaction throws interesting light
                    on the "double-dealing and fraud" practiced on the "red
                    children", some four thousand of whom under Chief Richardville were present on that
                    occasion. In 1840, he was a delegate to the Democratic State convention which chose 
                        Van
                     Buren electors, and he scores the famous Whig campaign of that year for its
                    "tom-foolery" and its "hard cider plenteously diluted with
                    whisky." He was a delegate to the great Free Soil convention at 
                        Buffalo
                     in 1848 as was his nephew, George W. Julian, his interest centering in the threatened
                    extension of slavery into free territory.
            When referring to his appointment early in life by Gov. Posey to be Justice of the Peace, he says he
                    thus unfortunately acquired a taste for politics: "I say unfortunately, because, taken all
                    together, it is more like stooping than climbing, does not pay for the wear and tear of mind, of
                    conscience, and often engenders strife and animosity which time cannot heal."
            During the visit of Elias Hicks already referred to, Henry Hoover attended some of his meetings, and
                    thus, although he did not join the new Society, he lost his standing with the orthodox 
                  
                     35 "I have lone since arrived at this conclusion, that if the
                            doctrines of Jesus are true no warrior can have eternal life extended to him, for infinite
                            goodness and love cannot dwell in the heart of the murderer."—Henry
                            Hoover.
               
                     fellowship, and for fifteen years his "seat in the
                    meeting-house was vacant." He read Thomas Paine, Voltaire, Volney and other
                    "infidel writers" and became sceptical, "reckless in regard to any faith
                    or mode of worship." But he was not satisfied, a warning voice told him that there was
                    "a rest for the people of God and a state of black despair for the ungodly." So
                    after a time he reluctantly united with the Methodists, although he strongly objected to their
                    "exciting discourses" and their tolerance of war and slavery. But when this
                    denomination found "the voice inadequate to praise God" and introduced melodeons,
                    organs and pianos, accompanied by a choir, "the congregation to sit silent and be sung
                    at" he could endure it no longer, and in the last year of his life he returned to the faith
                    of his early youth. He died in his eightieth year. He had never been ill enough to be confined to
                    his bed, and simply drifted into the sleep that knows no bodily awakening. His nephew, Isaac Hoover
                    Julian, wrote an obituary in which he spoke of his fine appearance, his remarkably expressive eyes,
                    and great dignity of bearing. He says he was singularly versatile, combining sound common sense,
                    which insured his success in worldly affairs, with warm social qualities, ready wit, love of music
                    and devotional aspirations. He called it "a well rounded happy life."
            Rebecca Hoover, who, as already mentioned, at the age of eighteen became the wife of Isaac Julian,
                    school-master, Justice of the Peace and afterwards member of the Indiana Legislature, was a typical
                    pioneer mother, tireless in service, patient under hardship, faithful and self-reliant. These
                    qualities were needed, for in a few years she had to shoulder alone the burden of rearing their six
                    children. Isaac Julian's death occurred on the Wea plains near 
                        LaFayette
                     in 1823, where he had purchased government land and built a cabin. His widow's
                    return to 
                        Richmond
                     was accomplished with great hardship, in the dead of winter, her youngest child being
                    only six months old. Again her brother Henry's home was thrown open to her until the
                    following spring, when a small farm was purchased with the proceeds of the sale of the Wea land; but
                    they were very poor, even for that day. Opportunities to re-marry were not wanting, but her life was
                    centered in her children and especially in the endeavor to secure for them the best schooling then
                    and there attainable, which ambition had likewise been  her
                    husband's. Her brothers all admired her strength of character and were not wanting in kind
                    offices.
            Of Rebecca Hoover Julian's children, the oldest, John M. became a teacher and died at the
                    age of twenty-one, a victim, along with many others, of the ignorance of the medical profession at
                    that time. Jacob Burnet, the second son, was a lawyer, first in Centreville and later in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was a members of the Legislature, president of the Centreville bank, one of the two
                    proprietors of the town of 
                        Irvington
                    , now a part of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , judge of the judicial circuit composed of 
                        Marion
                     and 
                        Hendricks counties
                    , and died at the age of eighty-three. George W., two years younger, was a surveyor and
                        teacher.36 He was admitted to the bar in 1840, elected to the Legislature in
                    1845, a Representative in Congress 1849-1851, candidate for Vice-President on the Free Soil ticket
                    in 1852, again a member of Congress 1860-1870, Surveyor-General of New 
                        Mexico
                     1885-1889; author of Political Recollections and the Life of Joshua R. Giddings. He died in 
                        Irvington
                     in 1899 at the age of eighty-two. Isaac Hoover Julian, the youngest child, engaged in
                    journalism, first in Centreville and Richmond, and later for many years in 
                        Texas
                    , where he died at eighty-seven.
            Sarah, Rebecca Hoover Julian's oldest daughter, married a son of that George Holman whose
                    arrival in the Whitewater valley antedated even that of the Hoovers, the same who with Richard Rue
                    was held in captivity by the Indians for three years and a half. Elizabeth, the other daughter,
                    became the wife of Andrew Beaty, and both these families removed to 
                  Linn county, Iowa
               , where their
                    remaining years were spent, and where their mother died while on a visit to them in 1867.
            
               
                  36 The writer of this paper is a daughter of George W. Julian, of whom she
                        has written a biography.—Editor.
            
         
         
         
            The Senatorial Career of Albert J. Beveridge
            By JOHN A. COFFIN (Concluded)
            A REFORMER IN THE FIELD OF SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC LEGISLATION
            Unprecedented progress was made in the field of social and economic legislation during the first
                    decade of the twentieth century. Conservation of natural resources was promoted; the pure food and
                    meat inspection acts were passed; railway rate legislation was enacted, as well as an employers
                    liability law and a provision for limiting the hours of labor of those people who were engaged in
                    the promotion of interstate commerce. A new nationalism was thus developed.
            In this constructive legislation, Beveridge played a not unimportant part. When not the sponsor of a
                    bill, he was an untiring questioner of other Senators. He did not question just to be annoying,
                    although it amounted to that at times, but he challenged all statements which he thought were not
                    based on facts. He was not a believer in generalities; so his questioning at times was an attempt to
                    get specific information in order to approach the truth or fundamental bases of policies as nearly
                    as possible.
            His interest in conservation was enhanced, because, during his first three years in the Senate, he
                    was chairman of the Committee on Forest Reserves and Protection of Game. Furthermore, it was an
                    administration policy. President McKinley was much interested in conservation, and used the power
                    granted him by an act passed in 1891 to set apart as reserves forest-bearing lands. When Roosevelt
                    became President, he used this power more extensively, adding approximately 148,000,000 acres to the
                    46,425,528 already set apart.1
            
            
               
                  1
                        Cong. Record, 56 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 12; Lingley, op. cit.,
                        p. 495.
            
            
            Along with this tremendous increase of the forest reserves under Roosevelt's administration,
                    came the development of the Division of Forestry in the Department of Agriculture, brought about
                    largely by the interest and efforts of Gifford Pinchot. By creating this bureau the government was
                    attempting to systematize the forest service and put it upon an efficient, scientific basis.
            When the argicultural appropriation bill was up for consideration in 1907, Senator Redfield Proctor
                    and others attacked Mr. Pinchot and his administration of the forestry division; and at the same
                    time, they attempted to decrease the appropriation for the forestry service. During his eight years
                    in the Senate Beveridge had known and admired Mr. Pinchot,2 and now vigorously
                    defended him in his work in the forestry department. He did not believe that the appropriation
                    should be decreased; for when such a phase of the government's work was so vital to the
                    people, to the development of the western States, and to the Nation as well, the appropriation
                    should be increased rather than decreased.
            Beveridge's estimate of Mr. Pinchot and his great work can best be presented in his own
                    words: 
                        The truth about it [Pinchot and his forestry work] is that either in this Hall or in any
                            other place of public service, in the legislative or executive departments, I do not know a
                            man who so long and so faithfully and so hard and so thoroughly has equipped himself for a
                            great service to the whole country; and who almost alone, by his work and by his talents,
                            has created a very great beneficence for the entire Republic as this man; nor do I know here
                            or in any Department, or in any level of work, private or public, that I have seen in all my
                            life, a man who gives his remarkable talents, his high and severely acquired
                            accomplishments, so completely to any work as this man gives his whole life to the public
                                service.3
                  
                    
            
            After describing the ruthlessness with which our natural resources had been destroyed, Beveridge
                    explained that it was now the purpose of the government to prevent further destruction as well as to
                    restore the conditions which formerly existed. To carry on this great work the Division of Forestry
                    had been established and it was laboring not only with fidelity, but with an intelligence
                    unsurpassed by any other Department of the government. "The whole system", said
                    he, "is as perfect as knowledge and integrity can make it."4
            
            
               
                  2
                        Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 3640.
               
                  3
                  Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 2 Seas., p. 2956.
               
                  4
                        Ibid., pp. 3632-8685.
            
            
            It is an unusual occurence for public opinion to crystalize and make itself felt so strongly that it
                    will cause immediate action in the halls of Congress. Yet, when the leaders are progressive and
                    attentive to the demands and welfare of the people, the unusual is likely to happen. Such was the
                    case in the spring and summer of 1906.
            For some years criticism had been directed toward phases of the immense business built up by the 
                        Chicago
                     packing companies. Bitter condemnation of the packers for furnishing impure preserved
                    meats and other packing-house products had been expressed at home and abroad. A storm of protest had
                    been raised against the so-called "embalmed beef" fed to the soldiers in the
                    Spanish American war; but the greatest sensation of all was Upton Sinclair's book, The Jungle. This author, commonly classed as one of the
                    "Muckrakers", told everything ugly and unwholesome that he could find in regard to
                    the 
                        Chicago
                     industry in order to shock the country with a grim and revolting realism. This book
                    certainly produced results, for the country as a whole was deeply stirred, and President Roosevelt
                    did not hesitate to act.
            To be sure of his footing, before making any charges or recommendations, Roosevelt appointed Charles
                    A. Neill, head of the Bureau of Labor, and James B. Reynolds, of 
                        New York
                    , to investigate the conditions at the 
                        Chicago
                     packing-houses and make a report to him. Although this investigation was not
                    exhaustive, it was sufficient to prove that a more rigid inspection of the industry was needed, and
                    that many of the other charges made by Sinclair were possibly true.5
            
            While this investigation was being made, Roosevelt asked Beveridge to draft a bill which would enable
                    the government to inspect rigidly all the processes in the slaughter and preparation of meat-food
                    products. Beveridge was assisted by the Department of Agriculture, which already had the machinery
                    for a very limited amount of meat inspection.6 The bill (S. 6219) was formally
                    presented to the Senate on May 21,1906. It was read twice and referred to the Committee on
                    Agriculture and Forestry.7 The Committee dealt with it favorably. The bill was
                    submitted to the Senate on May 25 by Beveridge as an 
                  
                     5
                            Review of Reviews, XXXIV, p. 6: Mark Sullivan, Our
                            Times, II, p. 5S7. Mr. Dooley's characterization of the influence of The Jungle on President Roosevelt is interesting. See ibid., p. 635.
                  
                     6
                            Review of Reviews, XXXIV, p. 6. (July 1906).
                  
                     7
                            Cong. Record, 69 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 7127.
               
                     amendment to the agricultural appropriation bill which was then
                    under consideration. This rider was passed without a dissenting vote.8 It was
                    then sent to the House, and was referred to the Committee on Agriculture, of which James W.
                    Wadsworth was chairman.
            The 
                        Chicago
                     packers soon realized what had happened in the Senate. Many of their representatives
                    were hurried to 
                        Washington
                     to lobby, and to get the bill modified if it could not be defeated. They considered
                    that it was not to their best interests to have such a bill passed, and if one was to be passed
                    under the impelling force of a strong public opinion, which was at this time adverse to the great 
                        Chicago
                     industry, it would be very severe. Furthermore, if consideration of this amendment
                    could be prevented at this session, public dissatisfaction would probably subside and the agitation
                    for this legislation would probably die out before Congress convened again. In the meantime the
                    packers elaborately denied all the charges made against the industry, and severely criticized the
                    President for being against them.9 They were wholly wrong in viewing this bill
                    as an attempt to injure their interests, for it was the only measure that could rescue them from the
                    grave charges which had been hurled against the methods which they had been using in the packing
                    business. The packers were too frantic to understand where their own interests lay.
            According to Henry C. Adams, of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, Senator Wadsworth and his associates
                    took up the consideration of the proposed bill in the utmost good faith, with every man actuated by
                    the desire to draft and present to the House a measure which would compel a rigid and, in so far as
                    human judgment could make it, perfect inspection of meat; and to present a bill which would not only
                    be just to the producers of live stock, but also fair and just to those great meat packing interests
                    which were handling hundreds of millions of dollars worth of the meat products of the country.10 Many men who were in favor of the bill as well as many who were opposed to it
                    were called into conference. It appeared to those who wanted immediate consideration of the
                    amendment that this was an attempt on the part of Wadsworth to thwart its progress. Many of the
                    legislators, as well 
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., p. 7420. The exact copy of the Amendment is given here also.
                  
                     9
                            Review of Review, XXXIV, p. 8. (July, 1906); Sullivan, op.
                                cit., p. 589.
                  
                     10
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sesa., p. 8728.
               
                     as numerous newspapers, condemned Wadsworth and his committee
                    for this delay, and it was generally accepted that the motive for delay was a vindication of the
                    packers. But a more serious consideration of the situation tends to prove that the committee as a
                    whole believed that the Senate had passed the bill without due consideration, and that, in order to
                    perfect the bill, hearings were necessary.11
            
            There were just bases for argument on both sides of this question. There is much to prove that the
                    packers were doing all they could to delay action and to defeat the bill if possible. The committee
                    made investigations in order to perfect the bill, which the members were very desirous to do.
                    Whether or not they would have ever perfected it and presented it to the House, had not President
                    Roosevelt played his hand, is a matter of conjecture. It seems reasonable to believe that in time
                    they would have done so. However, the President's action made it more certain that the bill
                    would be reported to the House.
            Roosevelt did not wish to publish the contents of the Neill-Reynolds report unless forced to do so,
                    because such action would create a greater European distrust at the expense of this great American
                    industry. But when he became convinced that the packers were trying to prevent legislation so
                    necessary to the public welfare, he decided to send a special message to Congress together with a
                    part of the report in order to force the Beveridge Amendment from the committee room.
            In his remarks prefacing the report, President Roosevelt stated that this was only a preliminary
                    report. The investigation as yet was not complete. The alleged abuses in the use of deleterious
                    chemical compounds in connection with curing and preserving meat products, and the alleged doctoring
                    in this fashion of tainted meat and of products returned to the packers as having grown unsalable or
                    unusable from age or various other reasons, had yet to be looked into. To use the
                    President's own words: 
                        I submit it [the report] to you now because it shows the urgent need of immediate action by
                            the Congress in the direction of providing a drastic and thorough going inspection by the
                            Federal Government of all stock yards and packing houses and their products, so far as the
                            latter enter into interstate or foreign commerce. The conditions shown by even this short
                            inspection to exist in the 
                                Chicago
                             stock yards are revolting. It is imperatively necessary in the interest of
                            health and of decency that they 
                        
                           11
                                    Ibid., p. 8728.
                     
                             should be radically changed. Under the existing law it
                            is wholly impossible to secure satisfactory results.
                    
            
            After pointing out the grave inadequacies of the existing legislation to meet the prevailing
                    conditions, Roosevelt recommended that the House immediately pass Beveridge's amendment.12
            
            Wadsworth and his committee, however, proceeded to take testimony and to give the amendment prolonged
                    consideration. When all the hearings had been completed a vote was taken by which the Beveridge
                    amendment was rejected, 9 to 7. A substitute which had been drawn up by chairman Wadsworth was
                    reported to the House by a vote of 11 to 6.13
            
            When President Roosevelt heard about this action he was enraged. After conferring with Beveridge and
                    George P. Mc-Cabe14 and after having reviewed the proposed substitute, he wrote
                    to Wadsworth on June 14. He unequivocally stated his opinion of the bill.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        My. Dear Mr. Wadsworth: I have gone over your bill very carefully and not only
                                    obtained a report from Mr. McCabe, as I told you I would, but also obtained a report
                                    from Mr. Reynolds on it. I am sorry to say the more closely I investigate your
                                    proposed substitute] the worse I find it. Almost every change is one for the
                                worse.
                     
                  
               
                
            He then proceeded to state his objections to Wadsworth's proposed substitute: (1) There was
                    no provision for making the plants accessible at all hours to the inspectors. (2) It hampered in the
                    most grossly improper fashion the Secretary of Agriculture in doing the work which Congress had
                    assigned him to do. (3) The court review provisions as well as the other provisions were so bad that
                    if they had been deliberately designed to prevent the remedying of the evils complained of they
                    could not have been worse. In conclusion the President baldly stated: 
                  
                     
                        It seems to me that the surest way to keep our foreign trade from us, and indeed our
                                    interstate trade likewise, is a thoroughly unsatisfactory condition, and to prevent
                                    its resuming the position that it formerly had, is to enact the law in the shape
                                    proposed in the amendments submitted to me by you.15
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  12
                        Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., pp. 7800 ff.; Sullivan, op.
                        cit., pp. 540-41.
               
                  13
                        Ibid., p. 546.
               
                  14 Mr. McCabe was the solicitor of the Department of Agriculture.
               
                  15
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, June 16, 1906.
            
            
            Wadsworth, not willing to give in, even to the President, retaliated on June 15: 
                  
                     
                        My Dear Mr. President: I received your letter last night. You are wrong,
                                    "Very, very wrong" in your estimate of the Committee's
                                    bill. It is as perfect a piece of legislation to carry into effect your own views on
                                    the question as was ever prepared by a Committee of Congress. Every member of the
                                    Committee is absolutely as honest and sincere as yourself in the desire to secure
                                    the passage of a Meat Inspection bill. They know the meaning of the English
                                        language.16
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            Wadsworth then attempted to point out wherein the President was in error. There was a definite
                    provision in the bill for rigid inspection at all times of every part of the packing estabishments,
                    as well as a provision which granted the Secretary of Agriculture extensive if not unlimited power
                    to enforce or supervise this inspection.
            Roosevelt then conferred with Joseph G. Cannon, Speaker of the House. On Cannon's
                    suggestion, the President asked Henry C. Adams of the House Committee on Agriculture to confer with
                    him. Adams went over the proposed substitute with Roosevelt and noted every objection which the
                    President had to the bill. In the final analysis, it was found that there were only a few material
                    differences between the Committee and the President in regard to the bill. Many other differences,
                    however, were rather trivial, being matters of phraseology rather than of content.17
            
            In a second letter to Wadsworth, Roosevelt stated his modified views of the substitute. He first
                    acknowledged that he was in error in the statement, which he had accepted from Beveridge, that there
                    was no provision for making the plants accessible at all hours to the inspectors. This important
                    provision had been modified and shifted to a different place in the bill. Furthermore, the modified
                    provision was not as definite as the original. The President objected most to the "court
                    review" provision, and insisted that it be excluded from the bill, because in his opinion,
                    a court review was not necessary. In fact, Roosevelt viewed it as an attempt to interfere with the
                    administration of the bill. In concluding Roosevelt advised Wadsworth to consult Adams and to
                    examine the annotated copy of the bill, which Adams had in his possession, for the other changes
                    which he recommended.18
            
            
               
                  16
                        Ibid., June 16, 1906.
               
                  17
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, June 17, 1906.
               
                  18
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times. June 17, 1906.
            
            
            John Sharp Williams of 
                        Mississippi
                     observed that this Meat Inspection bill could not be defeated even if anyone wanted to
                    defeat it, because the two ruling authorities under this boasted American form of free
                    government—to-wit, the President of the 
                        United States
                     and the Speaker of the House of Representatives—had consulted together about
                    it and determined upon and prescribed exactly what should be done.19 After
                    changes in the bill were agreed to by the House, the Wadsworth substitute was passed without a roll
                        call.20
            
            On June 20, it was presented to the Senate for consideration,21 and thereupon a
                    long and heated discussion ensued, led by Redfield Proctor of 
                        Vermont
                     and Beveridge, who were in favor of the bill as passed by the Senate, but who were
                    opposed to the two chief changes made by the House. These changes, which rose to the dignity of
                    principles, as Beveridge viewed them, were: (1) the date on the label of canned goods was not
                    required; (2) cost of inspection was to be borne by the Government instead of by the packers.22 Proctor could not see that the former change was so obnoxious, because he did
                    not think that the dealers would keep in stock more than a year's supply, and it would also
                    be to their interests to sell the oldest first; therefore, there would be no danger of selling
                    canned meats which had been on their shelves for several years.23 Beveridge,
                    however, viewed it from the angle that the people had a right to know whether a can of goods was
                    five days old or five years old, and that concealment of the age of meat was a fraud on the
                        consumers.24 He also pointed out that the British War office required that
                    the food for their soldiers must have the date on the container, and if the date were not placed on
                    the label by American packers the chances for the British Army trade would be
                    "nil", unless the rule should not be rigidly adhered to by them. Therefore, the
                    date was necessary in order for these products to compete for British sales. In concluding his
                    arguments on this point, and answering the charge that label dates would work a hardship on the
                    dealers and manufacturers, he boldly stated: 
                  
                     19
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 8723.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., p. 8728.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., p. 8763.
                  
                     22
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 8764.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., p. 8763.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., p. 8764.
               
                    
                    
                        It does not hurt any business to tell the truth about it and to correct the evils which that
                            truth reveals. Any business which can be permanently hurt by telling the truth about it
                            ought not only to be hurt, but it ought to be destroyed.25
                  
                    
            
            Proctor and Beveridge were in complete harmony on the question of paying for the cost of inspection.
                    They could see no reason why the packers should not be made to pay for this work, because no
                    advertising could be more profitable or yield a more tremendous return than the government stamp on
                    their goods.28 Beveridge estimated that this government "O.K."
                    would be worth at least eight or ten million dollars annually to the packers in the future as an
                    advertising proposition. In the light of this fact, then, he viewed this legislation as granting the
                    packers a favor rather than imposing upon them a burden. "Shall we do more," he
                    reasoned, "and give them $3,000,000 of the peoples money every year in addition
                    to the boon we are granting them in the inspection itself?" He could not see that this
                    would be fair or logical, and argued that the cost of inspection should be paid by the packers
                    themselves."
            There was no particular advantage in having the packers pay for this inspection. Beveridge's
                    only argument was that since they would be so greatly benefitted, as a result of the
                    government's supervision, they should pay for the favor. Obviously the people, in the last
                    analysis, would pay for the inspection whether it came out of the government's treasury or
                    whether it came out of the treasuries of the packing establishments, since the packers would simply
                    shift the burden. The question was whether or not the people should be taxed directly or indirectly.
                    However, Beveridge did not believe that there was any danger of the packers shifting the burden to
                    the people. He also pointed out that a government appropriation might be too small to insure a rigid
                    and complete inspection at all times. In the light of these things, he maintained that a fee system
                    would be better, because it would be more equitable. In this way the cost would be borne by those
                    who received the benefits in direct proportion to the volume of business.28 Many
                    of the more conservative Senators, however, firmly believed that the packers would tax the
                    live-stock producers for the cost of inspection if the fee system was agreed upon. Furthermore,
                        
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., p. 8766.
                  
                     26" Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p.
                            8763.
               
                     the inspectors would probably be more independent and would
                    inspect the packing-house products more stringently if they received their salaries from the
                    government.
            The Senate refused to concur in the House amendment. On June 23, Senators Proctor of 
                        Vermont
                    , Henry C. Hansbrough of 
                        North Dakota
                    , and Furnifold M. Simmons of 
                        North Carolina
                     were appointed as the Senate members of the conference committee. The first conference
                    report was presented to the Senate on June 27. The House conferees positively refused to consider
                    the fee system and insisted that the Senate accept the House provision. Proctor advised the Senate
                    to acquiesce, because the House took the position that the bill would fail unless the Senate yielded
                    to everything asked.29 The Senate again insisted on its amendments. A show-down
                    was at hand.
            After further deliberation in conference, the amendments came up for consideration in the Senate on
                    June 29. The disagreement still prevailed, but if the Senate continued to insist on its demands the
                    amendment would be defeated. Proctor then explained that the bill still retained all the essential
                    features which the President had insisted upon; and since this bill was so vitally important to the
                    welfare of the country, he again made the recommendation that it was best for the Senate to waive
                    their objections to the label dates and cost, but expressly state their views on the matter.30
            
            While the two houses were deadlocked on the bill, a flood of telegrams, emanating from 
                        Chicago
                    , poured into 
                        Washington
                     asking that the expense of inspection be borne by the government.
                    Many came supposedly from the cattle raisers, livestock dealers, bankers, and others but the
                    phraseology of the telegrams clearly showed that they were sent at the instigation of the packers.
                    This method of trying to influence legislation had never been surpassed and it called forth Senator
                    Proctor's bitter denunciation.
            
                    We have all had much experience with round robin telegrams. We expect them from certain
                        associations, but I have never seen such open and barefaced use of this method of trying to
                        influence Congress as has been made by these packers in flooding us with telegrams from all over
                        the West in identical language, all evidently emanating from 
                            Chicago
                        . If we are to be buncoed, as I hold that we are to be in this matter of expense,
                            
                     
                        27
                                Ibid., p. 8766.
                     
                        28
                                Cong. Record. 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 8766.
                     
                        29
                                Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 9376.
                     
                        30
                                Ibid., p. 9656.
                  
                         it would be pleasanter to have it done with some neatness
                        and so as to conceal the cheapness of its style.31
               
                
            Beveridge acquiesced in the demands of the House and the packers after he found out that it was
                    impossible to have the Senate provisions relating to the dated labels and cost reinserted. He also
                    recommended that the Senate agree to the House bill, for it was, with but two exceptions, as good,
                    if not a better bill than the one which they had formerly agreed to. In conclusion he thus stated
                    his views: 
                        In the interests of practical legislation, and, I may say, of any legislation at all upon
                            this critically important question, I trust the motion of the Senator from 
                                Vermont
                             (Mr. Proctor) be immediately agreed to for it is the best that we can do.
                        In all great reforms,—for this is one of the greatest of practical reforms which
                            has been legislated upon by the American Congress in a quarter century—it is the
                            duty of those who propose the reform to fight for every essential provision; but not to
                            imperil the life of the measure itself. And in all reforms it is the testimony of all human
                            experience that everything at first proposed cannot be at first secured, although in the end
                            all that is at first proposed usually is finally secured.32
                  
                    
            
            Other Senators did not acquiesce so easily. Senator Nelson emphatically denounced the packers and
                    their influence on legislation. He saw that the Senate had been defeated by them, and openly
                    admitted it when he made his estimate of the proceedings: 
                  
                            
                        31
                                Cong Record, 59 Cons., 1 Sess., p. 9656. Other Senators expressed
                                similar views in regard to these telegrams, only a few of which were sent in by the
                                live-stock producers on their own initiative. The others clearly showed that there was
                                some general power directing the whole scheme. For the most part these telegrams were
                                characterized by the Senators without being read, but Senator Hansbrough read a few that
                                he had received from his section of the country to prove his point:
                            
                        
                                    St. Paul
                                , Minn.
                            June 27, 1906.
                            "The live stock interests ask that you support amendment to meat bill placing
                                cost of inspection on Government. We are especially interested in this
                                feature."
                            (Signed by) President Charles L. Haas
                            South 
                                    St. Paul
                                 Stock Exchange
                            Ashley, N. Dakota
                            June 28, 1906.
                            "We urge support of Wadsworth meat-bill, including Government inspection at
                                Government expense."
                            (Signed by) Charles A. Haas
                            First State Bank of Ashley, N. D.
                            Condo, N. Dakota
                            June 28, 1906.
                            "Think it is to interest of Northwest to support Wadsworth meat bill, including
                                Government inspection at Government expense."
                            (Signed by a Banker of Condo, 
                                    North Dakota
                                , who was known personally by Mr. Hansbrough, but the Senator did not reveal
                                the name).
                        
                  
                     32
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 9657. In pursuance of this policy
                            Beveridge tried again in 1907, and a second time in 1908 to get the label and cost
                            provisions passed by Congress. He did not succeed in either instance. Cong.
                                Record, 59 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 2933, 3870; and Cong. Record, 60
                            Cong., 1 Sess., p. 6648-9; 6739 ff, respectively.
               
                    
                    
                        We have expended 13,000,000 in inspecting the products of the packers, and then the people
                            are not to get the full benefit of the protection. When we come here and ask for the plain
                            privilege of having the canned goods labeled, so that the American consumer can tell whether
                            he is buying a fresh product or not, the packers and the men who represent them get upon
                            their hind legs and say, "You cannot have it. We are omnipotent."33
                  
                    
            
            Senator Porter J. McCumber of 
                        North Dakota
                     was no less emphatic when he expressed his sentiments in his usual clever way. He
                    openly admitted that the Senate had been defeated: 
                        At the close of any great battle it is fitting that we send back to the people whom we
                            represent, in terse form, the results of that conflict. I think we can epitomize the result
                            in a very few words, "we have met the enemy and we are theirs—indemnity
                            $3,000,000." That is the result of this legislation.34
                  
                    
            
            The Senate agreed to the House amendments on June 29. The bill was signed by the President on June
                    30, and went into effect on July 1,1906.35 Thus one of the most important
                    measures ever passed to promote the general welfare of the people as a whole was adopted.
            Several men played important parts in securing the enactment of this legislation. Beveridge and
                    Proctor were outstanding in the Senate, while Wadsworth, Adams, Cannon, and others were closely
                    associated with the progress of the bill in the House. Due credit must be given to Roosevelt for his
                    strategy in the use of the Neill-Reynolds report. Had it not been for this report, and his
                    recommendation, the bill probably would have been chloroformed in the committee room. Beveridge thus
                    characterized Roosevelt's part in the formulation of the bill: 
                        And such improvement over the first House proposition as we now have, such restoration of the
                            Senate provision as we now have, we owe to the courage, determination, and the absolutely
                            unselfish devotion to the interest of the people of President Roosevelt. From the beginning
                            of the opposition to the Senate bill he has advocated the most rigid and scientific
                            inspection, and it is chiefly to him that we owe the fact that we have as excellent a bill
                            as we do have.……We have secured for the American people as complete a
                            meat-inspection bill as is now on the statute books of any nation in the world.36
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  33
                        Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Seas., p. 9657. Nelson was correct stressing the
                        question regarding the date on the label. To force the packers to adopt this practice was more
                        important than to require them to pay the cost of inspection.
               
                  34
                        Ibid., p. 9661.
               
                  35 The text of this bill may be found in ibid., pp.
                        9791-2.
               
                  36
                        Cong. Record, 69 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 8767.
            
            
            Roosevelt refused to accept all credit for the bill as given him by Beveridge. On the day after he
                    signed the bill, he wrote Beveridge: 
                        You were the man, who first called my attention to the abuses. You were the legislator who
                            drafted the bill which in its substance now appears in the amendment to the Agriculture bill
                            and which will enable us to put a complete stop to the wrong doing complained of.37
                  
                    
            
            Along with the Meat Inspection act came the Pure Food and Drug act. Attempts to get such a law passed
                    had been numerous, but each had failed, because the business interests affected by the bill were so
                    large, and the lobbyists so numerous and so strong that action had been prevented. The most recent
                    attempt to have such a law passed was made in February of 1906. Senator Weldon B. Heyburn of 
                        Idaho
                    , who was in charge of the bill, believed that this effort was also blocked. However,
                    this bill was made possible when the opposition in the Senate collapsed, due to the fact that the
                    American Medical Association brought pressure to bear on Senator Nelson W. Aldrich, who was opposed
                    to the bill.38 President Roosevelt had appealed to Aldrich to withdraw his
                        opposition.39 When Aldrich told Beveridge that he would not object to the
                    Pure Food bill, Beveridge immediately went to Heyburn and told him to call up his measure instantly,
                    for there was now no opposition to it. Heyburn could hardly believe what he heard, but he finally
                    mustered enough courage to bring it up again when Beveridge promised to defend and be responsible
                    for the measure.40 On February 21, 1906, the bill passed the Senate with only
                    four votes cast against it.41 The bill was then sent to the House and referred
                    to the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce of which William P. Hepburn, of 
                        Iowa
                    , was chairman. On March 7, the bill, with amendments in the nature of a substitute, was
                    reported back to the House by the Committee of the Whole on the state of the Union.42 On March 29, the House agreed to Hepburn's motion to have the bill made a special
                    order on April 10.43 However, consideration of this 
                  
                     37 Quoted in James Ford Rhodes, The McKinley and
                                Roosevelt Administrations, p. 385.
                  
                     38 Sullivan, op cit., pp. 553.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., p. 533, footnote.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., pp. 533-534.
                  
                     41
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sees., p. 2773.
                  
                     42
                     Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 3494.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., p. 4456.
               
                     bill was not to interfere with appropriation bills, or other
                    matters of legislation which always had privileged position under the rules. The House considered
                    the Post Office appropriation bill on April 10, thus delaying the Pure Food bill again. Undaunted by
                    the failure of this attempt to get the House to consider the bill, Hepburn moved, on May 7, to have
                    the bill placed in privileged order on the calendar. The House agreed to the motion,44 but of course, the bill was still at the disposal of the Committee on Rules. Very
                    little, if anything was done in regard to the bill until the middle of June. It was reported that
                    Cannon did not want it to be referred to the House for fear that it would be defeated when a vote
                    was taken thereon.45 When Roosevelt sent his message to Congress, together with
                    the Neill-Reynolds report on June 4, his influence, although brought forward especially for the
                    benefit of meat inspection, created enough public sentiment for pure foods to force the prompt
                    consideration of this question as well. Those in favor of legislation in this field saw that the
                    time was opportune for making the necessary effort. As a result, the Committee on Rules submitted a
                    report which provided for immediate consideration.46 The previous question was
                    ordered, the report was agreed to, and the House proceeded to consider the measure. It was passed on
                    June 23 by a vote of 241 to 17.47 This bill was different in many respects, from
                    the one passed by the Senate. The House bill was accepted in conference, and both Senate and House
                    adopted the conference report. The President affixed his signature to it on June 30.48 These two laws passed in the first session of the fifty-ninth Congress were second only
                    in importance in the arena of economic legislation to the interstate commerce act.49
            
            Although Beveridge was not as closely connected with action on the Pure Food bill as he was with the
                    Meat Inspection act, his work on the one aided the other materially. The influences which prompted
                    the final action on both were so interlocked that they cannot be easily disassociated.
            The attack of Ida M. Tarbell on the Standard Oil Company, together with the efforts of the various
                    "Muckrakers," forcibly 
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., p. 6469.
                  
                     45
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, June 24, 1906.
                  
                     46
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 8836.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., p. 9076.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., p. 9801.
                  
                     49 Rhodes, op. cit., p. 336.
               
                     brought to light the evils that had grown up under the
                    Interstate Commerce Act of 1887. President Roosevelt had been cognizant of these abuses for several
                    years and had recommended that action be taken by Congress to correct them; but he had failed to
                    obtain an effective response.50 He was now determined, even if he had to
                    overstep the traditional power of the Executive to influence legislation, that something should be
                    accomplished to correct the existing evils in the long session of the fifty-ninth Congress.
                    Congress, realizing the need of correcting the evils, chief of which were the rebates, the private
                    car system,51 high freight rates, and free passes, began to work soon after the
                    beginning of the session of 1905-1906 on a measure to supplement the Act of 1887. On February
                    8,1906, the House passed the Hepburn bill by a vote of 346 to 7.52
            
            Senator Benjamin R. Tillman, a Democrat from 
                        South Carolina
                    , reported the Hepburn bill back to the Senate from the Committee on Interstate
                    Commerce, on February 26.53 Thereupon, long and heated debates were engaged in.
                    Foraker and Beveridge clashed when Beveridge tried to get the pipe-lines that carried natural gas
                    under the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission, as were the oil lines. He could not
                    see the difference between the two, though there seemed a vital difference to Foraker, because a gas
                    line was being constructed by a private company to furnish 
                        Cincinnati
                    , his home city, with natural gas from West 
                        Virginia
                    . He did not want this line to be put under the jurisdiction of the Commission, for it
                    was a local project to supply local needs; therefore, it could not be considered as a common
                        carrier.54 Other similar clashes were frequent between the various Senators
                    over details of the bill under consideration. LaFollette" and the Democrats, in general,
                    were opposed to the "Old Line" Republicans, while some of the more progressive
                    Middle-Westerners 
                  
                     50 An explanation of this delay is given by Cullom, op.
                                cit., pp. 327-330; for recommendations by the President, see Cong.
                                Record, 59 Cong., 2 Sess., pp. 7-8; Cong. Record, 58 Cong., 3
                            Sess., p. 12; Cong. Record, 59 Gong., 1 Sess., pp. 91-93. Same given in
                                Addresses and Papers of Theodore Roosevelt, Willis F. Johnson, Editor.
                  
                     51 McCumber believed that this was more intolerable than rebates for
                            it was in fact a system of legalized discrimination of the most offensevie nature. Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 4334.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., p. 2303.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., p. 2968; for the circumstances which caused the bill to be reported
                            at this early date, and the reason for putting Tillman in charge see Cullom, op. cit., pp. 331-2; also Newland's speech, Cong.
                            Record, 61 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 1789.
                  
                     54
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 6999.
                  
                     55 LaFollette stood in a class all by himself because of his
                            opposition to the "Old Guard" and by the number of amendments he submitted
                            and had rejected. For a detailed analysis of this statement see ibid., p.
                            7083.
               
                     switched from one side to the other according to the nature of
                    the questions under consideration.
            In this legislation, Beveridge played a minor role for he was busy with other matters of legislation.
                    He confined his activities, for the most part, to the questioning of Senators who were advocating
                    amendments in order to clarify specific points. However, he did not hesitate to express his views on
                    any phase of this legislation. He especially condemned the issuance of free passes, saying: 
                        The pass evil, is a real evil; but it is a broad evil and no doubt the injury worked through
                            it is as great or greater in other directions than it is here (in Congress)…. I
                            shall vote freely on this subject, because I have never yet, while I have been in public
                            life, taken or used a pass of any kind on any railroad, or any frank of any telegraph
                                company.56
                  
                    However, he could not see the justice of specifically naming Senators, Representatives, and
                    other Government officials as Senator Charles W. Fulton proposed in his amendment. He emphatically
                    asserted that "to say that a few men should be subject to this provision and that other men
                    shall not, is a proposition not supported by one single reason or one single fact."57
            
            On the various amendments Beveridge voted, in general, for those amendments which were in accordance
                    with Roosevelt's views on railway rate legislation. He was ever eager to extend the power
                    and jurisdiction of the national government as far as possible, for he believed that these evils
                    could only be remedied, and the people properly protected through strict, national supervision. He
                    was then an ardent advocate of the new nationalism.
            Foraker and Lodge were, to a certain extent, opposed to this extension of the powers of the national
                    government. Foraker expressed his opposition when he attacked the general nature of the Hepburn
                    bill: 
                        It is so contrary to the spirit of our institutions, and of such drastic and revolutionary
                            character that, if not in its immediate effect, at least as a precedent, the consequences
                            are likely to be most unusual and far reaching.58
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  56
                        Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sesss., p. 6949.
               
                  57
                        Ibid., p. 6948
               
                  58
                        Cong. Record, 59 Cong;., 1 Sess., p. 3107. For a detailed account of
                        Foraker's portion see his book, Notes of s Busy Life, II. pp. 213
                    ff.
            
            
            Lodge was opposed to Legislation which he chose to think of as tending too strongly toward socialism,
                    but he blamed big business for the demands that had arisen. He expressed himself in this way: 
                        I have no sympathy whatever with the socialistic movements that are going on to take
                            possession of all sorts of business and all so called "public utilities."
                            Whether state or national, I believe the movement, if successful, means the destruction of
                            the government, which we reverence and love and which it has taken us a hundred years to
                            build up.
                        ……I say in all seriousness that those owners of the Standard Oil and
                            these packers in 
                                Chicago
                             have done more to advance socialism and anarchism, and unrest, and agitation
                            than all the socialistic agitators who stand today between the oceans.59
                  
                    
            
            The Hepburn bill was amended by the Senate and passed by a 71 to 3 vote.60 In
                    regard to this economic reform, which was designed for the benefit of the people in general,
                    Beveridge, as well as many other Senators did not see the value of being a strict partisan.
                    Consequently, party lines were not strictly drawn on the various amendments. Lodge submitted an
                    amendment which put corporations or persons engaged in the transportation of oil or other
                    commodities, natural gas or water for municipal purposes excepted, by means of pipe lines, under the
                    jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission. This was passed 75 to 14, eight Republicans and
                    six Democrats voting against the proposal.61 Sixty-seven Senators voted for the
                    commodity amendment, which was submitted by Stephen B. Elkins of West 
                        Virginia
                    , while four Republicans and two Democrats voted against it.62 The
                    votes on the other amendments, for the most part, were similarly nonpartisan. After much wrangling
                    over the bill in conference, it was agreed to by both houses on June 29, and was approved by the
                    President on June 30.63
            
            It is not possible to give any one man or any one group of men the credit for this important measure.
                    Many of the Senators played important roles in securing this legislation, but no one was quite so
                    indispensable to the success of the bill as was 
                  
                     59
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 8769.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., p. 7088. Just before the vote was taken Senator Tillman remarked:
                            "I am very glad that my responsibility, small as it has been, merely in charge of a
                            bill without a committee behind me, here ends, and while I cannot congratulate the Senate on
                            anything much in connection with the bill, I do congratulate that we are about to reach a
                            vote."
                  
                     61
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 6875.
                  
                     62
                            Ibid., p. 6570.
                  
                     63
                            Ibid., p. 9655.
               
                     President Roosevelt. "Had it not been for the earnest
                    advocacy of railroad rate regulation by President Roosevelt", says Cullom, "the
                    Hepburn bill would never have been passed."64
            
            Senator Francis G. Newlands of 
                        Nevada
                    , however, expressed a different view in regard to the success of the bill. While
                    speaking to the Senate on May 6, 1909, he gave the following account of the proceedings: 
                        I could review numerous instances during the past four years when progressive reformative
                            action has been absolutely forced by the Democratic party, both in the House and Senate.
                            There are numerous cases when Democratic support placed upon the Statute books reform
                            measures
                        ……The vote was nearly unanimous on the rate bill, but the men in this
                            body who are familiar with legislation know that the rate bill and other reform measures
                            were opposed by the majority of the Republican party, though supported by a minority of the
                            party until the bitter end, and they only joined in a record vote with a view of letting it
                            appear to the country that a measure whose passage was inevitable and which had the support
                            of the entire country, had the unanimous approval and verdict of the Republican party in the
                                Senate.65
                  
                    
            
            It is evident that Newlands was trying to prove that the Democratic minority had some power and
                    influence in the Senate. The circumstances which prompted this utterance prove that this was his
                    motive. He was extending an. invitation to the progressive Republicans to join with the Democrats in
                    order to secure a tariff bill in accordance with the principles for which they were striving. Some
                    of his statements are too general to be conclusive, but, discounting this, it seems that he
                    diagnosed the situation rather correctly. Furthermore, his statments were not challenged by any
                    Senator, a very unusual occurrence, unless the statements happen to be well founded.
            The accomplishments of the first session of the fifty-ninth Congress were of great importance to the
                    welfare of the Nation. Few periods, if any, in the annals of our country exceed this one in the
                    development or extension of national control of business.
            Beveridge was not content with this extension of the power of the national government, nor was he
                    satisfied with abolition of illegal trusts. He wanted the government to go farther, in its crusade
                    against corrupt practices and in its "moral regeneration 
                  
                     64 Cullom, op. cit., p. 329.
                  
                     65
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 1790.
               
                     of business" as he called it.68
                    The great problem of the regulation of child labor needed to be solved. Therefore, he recommended
                    that a national child labor law be passed, for the State laws, efficient though some of them were,
                    were not capable of dealing successfully with this great evil. There was great variation in
                    legislation, while in some States no regulation had been attempted. The only remedy was to put
                    control in the hands of the national government.
            His interest in child labor and the evils thereof did not come suddenly, nor was he moved to get up
                    and denounce it according to 
                        Quaker
                     principles. He had been interested in the awful conditions under which children labored
                    for years, and had been earnest enough to spend nights, days, weeks, and months accumulating
                    testimony relating thereto. He had also appealed to the American people all over the country in the
                    campaign of 1906 in behalf of child labor legislation.67 His interest was
                    prompted not only by sympathy for those children, but for the future of the Republic; for with the
                    coming of so many foreigners, and the dilution of the original American stock, because of child
                    labor, the entire character of the American people would be changed, and American institutions as
                    well would be in danger of being undermined.68
            
            A child labor bill for the District of 
                        Columbia
                     had been introduced in the session of 1905-1906, but it failed to get much
                    consideration. This reform was again presented to the Senate on December 10, 1906, in House
                    Resolution 17838. After some discussion of this resolution during the month of January 1907,
                    Beveridge submitted an amendment to it which provided for a national child labor policy.69
            
            His three-day speech, given on January 23, 28, and 29, was a mass of statements, all of which were
                    supported by affidavits, revealing conditions as they actually existed in the cotton mills of the
                    South, in the mines, and in the sweat-shops of the country.70 He brought forth
                    conclusive evidence against all employers of child labor without fear or favor, to such an extent
                        
                  
                     66
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Timet, June 25, 1904; Cong. Record, 60 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            p. 3766.
                  
                     67
                            Cong. Record, 59 Cong., 1 Sew. p. 1802.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., p. 1795.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., p. 1552.
                  
                     70 A large part of the material that he had collected was not read but
                            just printed in the Retard.
                  
               
                     that a 
                        Washington
                     correspondent of the Independent marvelled at his courage.71
            
            This writer characterized Beveridge and his speech in this way: 
                        Into his attack the Senator put almost cyclonic energy. But cyclonic energy is natural to
                            him. He put the same thing into his statehood speeches last session. He wags his head,
                            shakes his fists, slaps his hand, bangs his desk, and tests the capacity of his vocal organ
                            in a way utterly to exhaust his listeners, if not himself. Yet, there is method in his
                            madness. His physical and mental pyrotechnics keep good tune and time. His fists follow his
                            tongue, instead of trying to do the work for it.72
                  
                    
            
            It is easy to see a priori that there would be an enormous amount of opposition to
                    this national child labor bill. The opposition of those industries which used child labor was
                    inevitable, although all of them did not oppose it, for a few establishments were forced to use
                    child labor, because those with whom they had to compete were using it.73 In
                    addition to this several Senators opposed the bill on the ground that their State laws were
                    sufficient, and no interference in their domestic affairs by the Federal government was
                        necessary.74
            
            Beveridge based his argument in answer to the contention that the State laws were strong enough to
                    cure the evil, on the inadequacies of State legislation, and on the equality of business
                    opportunity. The essence of his argument on the latter point is contained in these words which were
                    uttered in answer to a Senator who wished to guard the rights of the States: 
                        If one State has good laws, and enforces them, and an adjacent State does not, then business
                            men in the former State are at a disadvantage with the business men in the latter
                            State…. The Senator will agree that it is common sense as well as Americanism
                            that every business man beneath the flag ought to have equal opportunities in so far as the
                            law can give them to him.75
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  71 Independent, LXII, p. 880. February 14, 1907, "Men we are
                        Watching", by a 
                            Washington
                         Correspondent.
               
                  72
                        Ibid., p. 880.
               
                  73 In the course of his speech Beveridge stated that three-fourths of the
                        Southern mills were already opposing it and were determined that it should be defeated. However,
                        not all of the mill owners were against it for there were some who would rather have less money
                        and more conscience who employ child labor because their competitors do. Cong.
                            Record, 59 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 1792.
               
                  74 Senator Carmack of 
                            Tennessee
                         expressed this attitude in a typical way when he told Beveridge and the Senate that
                        as far as his state was concerned no federal legislation was needed to bring about this reform.
                            Ibid., p, 1802.
               
                  75
                  Ibid., p. 1807.
            
            
            Senator Tillman of 
                        South Carolina
                     interrupted Beveridge during the course of his speech, to express the hope that he,
                    (Beveridge) would not omit to get all well authenticated facts into the Record so
                    that he, on his return to 
                        South Carolina
                    , might have sufficient ammunition with which to begin a crusade to keep his legislature
                    from being influenced by northern millionaires who had gone down there and built mills and made
                    industrial slaves out of white children instead of the chattel black slaves of the old days. He also
                    stated that he would join Beveridge in making a national law, if he would show him how it could be
                    done constitutionally.76
            
            The constitutionality of the bill, according to Beveridge was based on the right of Congress to
                    regulate commerce. Congress was to exercise the power to prohibit goods produced by child labor from
                    entering into interstate commerce. To prove the constitutionality of such an act, and to show that
                    Congress had earlier exercised its power in a similar way, Beveridge read section 31 of the McKinley
                    tariff law. This provided "that all goods, wares, articles, and merchandise manufactured
                    wholly or in part in any foreign country by convict labor shall not be entitled to entry at any port
                    of the 
                        United States
                    ."77 In the light of this law he saw no constitutional
                    restrictions on his bill, for if Congress had the power and right to prohibit convict made goods
                    from entering into interstate commerce, it could prohibit child made goods as well. It was then, not
                    a question of power, nor of the right of Congress to pass such a law, but simply a question of
                    policy. To Beveridge it was not only a good policy, but a duty for the National government to pass a
                    child labor law in order to end this infamy which existed in America as extensively as it had in 
                        England
                     more than a hundred years earlier.78
            
            Although the majority of Senators believed in child labor legislation, they believed in it as a
                    matter of local concern.79 A few others who realized the need of a national law
                    gave Beveridge their moral support, but as yet, they were not ready to stand out boldly for the
                    measure which he was advocating. 
                  
                     76
                            Cong. Record, 59 Gong., 2. Sess., p. 1801.
                  
                     77 " Ibid., p. 1822.
                  
                     78
                            Ibid., p. 1833.
                  
                     79 Some idea of the extent of this feeling is shown by the vote on the
                            child labor bill for the District of 
                                Columbia
                            . It passed the Senate on May 6, 1908 without a roll call and May 9, the House
                            passed with 200 yeas, 178 not voting and 9 answered present. Con. Record,
                            60 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 5803, 6030, respectively.
               
                     Dolliver of 
                        Iowa
                     was probably as sympathetic as anyone, but he excused his lack of loyal support on
                    constitutional grounds.80 Consequently, the bill did not get much consideration
                    at this time. The importance of this movement lies in the fact that it was the beginning in the
                    Senate, of the agitation for a national child labor law which culminated in the proposed but
                    unsuccessful Twentieth Amendment of recent years.
            The attitude of the press, in general, can best be summarized by a statement made at a Gridiron Club
                    dinner to the effect that it was fortunate for the man behind the child labor bill that he got
                    himself elected to the Senate before advocating his theory.81
            
            Beveridge's interest in the conditions of labor was not confined to the field of child
                    labor. He was always in favor of any legislation which would be beneficial to the laboring man.
                    Consequently, he favored the employers liability bill that was passed by Congress in 1906. This act
                    was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court on June 6, 1908, because its provisions applied
                    to all common carriers engaged in interstate commerce, regardless of the fact that injuries might
                    often happen to employees of such carriers who were not actively engaged in forwarding interstate
                        commerce.82 On April 9 [1908], a similar bill, drafted in accordance with
                    the ruling of the Supreme Court, was up for consideration in the Senate.83
                    Before recording his vote, Beveridge expressed his opinion of the bill: "I am in favor of
                    the strongest law we can pass. I hoped that the Act of 1906 would stand; it failed. This act must
                    not fail. It is humane, just, and necessary."84
            
            Foraker again emphatically denounced this type of legislation, because the government was about to
                    take another step in its paternalistic progress. He thought that the government had already gone too
                    far in this direction, and if the process was persisted in there would be no end to the furtherance
                    of government control. He thus stated his views: 
                        The most important question lying behind all this legislation is the question whether
                            Congress has the right to regulate the relation between
                        
                           80
                                    Ibid., p. 5785.
                        
                           81
                                    Independent, LXII, p. 381. February 14, 1807.
                        
                           82 Cong. Record, 60 Con., 1 Sess., p. 4527.
                        
                           83 For a text of the bill see ibid., p.
                                    4426. This act was passed and approved by the President on April 22, 1908.
                        
                           84
                                    Ibid., p. 4542.
                     
                             master and servant. If we have the right to regulate
                            those relations in one respect unquestionably we would have a right to say that an employee
                            shall have a right of action against his employer without regard to the question of
                            negligence or contributory negligence; we have a right to say that a common carrier shall
                            pay an engineer $150 a month wage or a brakeman $40 a month, or to do
                            anything else by a statute enacted by Congress that would bear upon the relations of
                            employer and employed.85
                  
                    
            
            Beveridge was not antagonistic to combinations of capital, commonly called trusts. He tried to walk
                    along the uncharted line of distinction between good and bad trusts, as many others, including
                    President Roosevelt, were attempting to do. It was impossible to have a complete consensus of
                    opinion on which trusts were good and which were bad. However, as long as capital was confined to
                    industry, and was honestly employed, there was no room for complaint; but when it went beyond these
                    limits, vehement condemnation and rigid prosecution were justifiable. So thought Beveridge and
                    Roosevelt.
            In his speeches and writings Beveridge clearly expressed his views regarding combinations of capital.
                    His philosophy in regard to them may be gleaned from these utterances. He believed that great
                    combinations of capital, as well as of labor, were based on fundamental principles of progress, and
                    that their development was a natural consequence of industrial development. Corporations were as
                    logical and as beneficial as simple partnerships between men, for they were simply numerous
                    partnerships; and if partnerships buy out partnerships, why not corporations buy out corporations?
                    They should if their directors were wise and honest, and their purposes beneficent.86 Numerous benefits had been derived from these combinations. Taking it by and large,
                    combinations of capital had been indispensable to the development of America. However, along with
                    the growth in combinations of capital had grown certain evils and crudities. Some of these evils
                    could be tolerated in order to receive the numerous benefits, but when such things as the arbitrary
                    raising and lowering of prices, and the unjust exactions of unfair profits from the consumers were
                    practiced, then those who were guilty of such dishonesty should be prosecuted.87
            
            Beveridge had also worked out a philosophy of congressional 
                  
                     85
                            Cong. Record, 60 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 4531.
                  
                     86
                            Reader Magazine, X, p. 43.
                  
                     87
                            Ibid., p. 9. A. J. Beveridge, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Speech February 22, 1902, p. 9.
               
                     action to cure these evils. This can best be presented by using
                    his own words: 
                        But the benefits [of the trusts] are fundamental, and the evils incidental. You cannot shear
                            away the good from the bad by some important measure evolved over night from an excited
                            brain and adopted the next day as a party measure to carry the election the day after.
                        Measures should be taken and a policy adopted, [but] those measures and that policy should be
                            well considered, cautiously adopted and executed with sanity and judgment.88
                  
                    
            
            Beveridge firmly believed, and he held it as one of the fundamental principles of his political
                    career, that corporation finance should not permeate the field of political activity. Because of the
                    conviction, he refused to accept any campaign contributions from corporations or large business
                    enterprises. He also refused them, because he was ever desirous of having a free hand to do, and to
                    say, and to vote according to his best judgment, and not according to the dictates of some special
                    interest. He frequently received campaign contributions from these sources, but in every instance,
                    so far as known, he returned the checks, together with a courteous reply, to the contributors.89
            
            Senator Henry C. Hansbrough of 
                        North Dakota
                     introduced a resolution on January 22, 1908, the purpose of which was to expedite the
                    prosecution of the International Harvester Company as an unlawful trust. This Company had also been
                    interfering in 
                        North Dakota
                     politics. In the debate which ensued Beveridge clearly expressed his views in regard to
                    such practices in this way: 
                        In any such fight I would stand with the Senator (Hansbrough) or any other honest man against
                            the interference, by any corrupt power, with the politics of any American commonwealth. If
                            it be true that this trust or any other financial power has invaded the politics of a state,
                            it has committed a greater crime against our institutions than it has an offense against our
                            laws. There are too many interferences in politics by Corporations, which, for their own
                            purposes, wish to control public office; too many instances where States are flooded with
                            money by men and corporations outside a State and inside a State for the purpose of
                            controlling primaries, conventions, and elections 
                        
                           88
                                    Ibid., p. 10.
                        
                           89 Judge Martin, Interview; John C. Shaffer, in Addresses in Honor of A. J. Beveridge, February 5, 1917, p. 26.
                     
                             And whenever this infamy is attempted it should be
                            defeated ant those who practice it punished.90
                  
                    
            
            Beveridge's philosophy in regard to labor organizations and financial combinations can best
                    be summarized by using his words: 
                        Orgaizations of labor are cognate to the organizations of capital. Each is the outgrowth of
                            that principal of cooperation which is the very spirit of civilized
                            society……. Neither labor organizations, nor those of capital are
                            unnatural or harmful. But the tyranny of greed may pervert the one; the tyranny of passion
                            may ruin the other. Considerate moderation is the safety of both…. There is no
                            place in the country for the absolutist of capital. There is no place in the country for the
                            absolutist of riot.91
                  
                    
            
            It may be added that this was a period in which much progressive legislation was accomplished. The
                    power and protection of the National government was extended. Nationalism was the dominant note; but
                    behind this nationalism was the impelling force of the people and their general
                    welfare. In this latter respect there is a striking similarity, although not a perfect comparison,
                    between this period and the period when Andrew Jackson was President. It was, in both instances, the
                    spirit of the West, the importance of the common man, a democracy for the people and not for
                    privileged classes or vested interests, rising up to impel, permeate, and mold the policy of the
                    government. It is best typified in the names, "Andy" Jackson and
                    "Teddy" Roosevelt.
            TARIFF VIEWS AND PROGRESSIVISM OF BEVERIDGE
            Volumes could be written on the old and often discussed question of the tariff; theories might be
                    discussed and explanations attempted; a defense of our tariff policy might be written as well as a
                    condemnation of it; but none of these fall within the province of this section. The purpose is
                    simply to discuss the tariff in relation to the part it played in bringing on or influencing
                    Republican insurgency and the schism of 1912 which resulted in the short-lived Progressive party.
            Few men, if any, advocated and worked for tariff reform more earnestly and untiringly than did
                    Senator Beveridge. It 
                  
                     90
                            Cong. Record, 60 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 967.
                  
                     91 Beveridge, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Speech, February 22, 1902, p. 12.
               
                     is true that several other Middle-Western Senators cooperated
                    with him and worked just as diligently in the special session of 1909, to secure a just revision of
                    the tariff, but none of them played a greater part than he, in originating and advocating the
                    principles and methods of tariff revision. Beveridge did not believe, whole heartedly in a high
                    protective tariff, neither was he an advocate of a mere tariff for revenue. Instead, he thoroughly
                    believed in a mobile tariff schedule—one that could be easily adjusted to changing
                    conditions; in reciprocity—common sense agreements with our neighbors among the nations
                    by which the surplus of American products could be taken across the seas. This was what he termed
                    "common sense statesmanship".1
            
            On September 26, 1906, Beveridge called on President Roosevelt, and, in the course of their
                    discussions, talked about the tariff. Roosevelt, in writing to Senator Lodge gave a short account of
                    this discussion: 
                        Beveridge was out here yesterday and added very slightly to my troubles by announcing that in
                            his judgment popular feeling was against "standpatism" and in favor of
                            immediate revision of the tariff, and that we ought at once to declare for it. I asked him
                            to consider two facts: first, that we must under no circumstances promise what we do not
                            intend to perform; and second that as a corollary to the first, he ought seriously to
                            consider whether there was any chance of revising the tariff before the Presidential
                            election, whether he could get the Republicans to entertain the idea at all, and whether if
                            they did entertain it, it would be possible to have a revision without inviting disaster to
                            the Presidential election. He treated both of these considerations as irrelevant.2
                  
                    
            
            This recommendation by Beveridge was, of course, premature, and serious consideration of tariff
                    revision really inexpedient at that time. However, the idea developed to such an extent that in the
                    next two years even the most conservative "standpatters" realized that revision
                    was inevitable. It was as much a psychological as an economic development.
            In the meantime, Beveridge continued his crusade against the existing tariff and the methods by which
                    tariff schedules were made. His most notable contribution was his
                    "magazine-article" debate with William J. Bryan in 1907. In these articles,
                    published in the Reader Magazine, he characterized the existing tariff
                    classification as old, obsolete, and no longer 
                  
                     1 Beveridge, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Speech, Feb. 22, 1902, p. 15.
                  
                     2 Roosevelt to Lodge, Oyster Bay, September 27, 1906, in Correspondence, II, p. 288.
               
                     useful, for there were numerous articles now on the market
                    which were not even mentioned in the schedules. A new tariff law should be made which would
                    reclassify all the articles that entered into our trade. This revision should also provide for the
                    opening of foreign markets to our surplus produce. This could only be accomplished by a maximum and
                    minimum rate provision which would enable us to lower the bars to those countries which gave us
                    concessions and raise them to those countries which did not. He firmly believed that the tariff
                    should be reduced in some instances, but reduced only when we get something in exchange for that
                    reduction. Furthermore, he contended that the tariff should be taken out of politics in the sense
                    that it should not be made the football of politicians to be kicked hither and yon as their
                    temporary and selfish interests might dictate. To remedy these evils and to secure these ends, he
                    advocated, that a tariff commission, composed of well qualified and specially trained men should be
                    established to study not only local conditions which affected the tariff but conditions in foreign
                    countries as well.
            In order to get more business-like and scientific methods into our tariff legislation, and to get
                    legislation dealing with great economic questions removed from politics as much as possible,
                    Beveridge introduced a bill, on January 7, 1908, which provided for the creation of a tariff
                        commission.8 According to his plan this commission was to be composed of
                    seven members appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, solely
                    with a view to their qualification and without regard to political affiliations. This committee was
                    to investigate immediately the cost of production of all articles covered by the tariff, as well as
                    other factors entering into and necessary for the formulation of equitable rates. These findings
                    were to be tabulated and submitted to Congress to serve as a partial basis for tariff legislation.
                    They were to study recent classifications adopted by other nations, and report this to Congress
                    together with a draft of a scheme for scientific classification of our tariff schedules.4
            
            On February 5, Beveridge made another one of his long speeches in which he explained the purpose of
                    and the need for a non-partisan tariff commission. He severely attacked the existing system of
                    tariff legislation, and showed how utterly 
                  
                     3
                            Cong. Record, 60 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 504.
                  
                     4
                     Ibid., pp., 1577-8.
               
                     impossible it was for the committee on finance to investigate
                    and formulate a good tariff schedule even if the members thereof were well trained and qualified to
                    deal with economic problems.5 He did not criticise the members of the committee,
                    individually, for they did the best they could under the circumstances, but it was the loose methods
                    which were employed by them in the formulation of schedules that were so obnoxious, and which he
                    severely denounced.6 His statements in favor of the maximum and minimum rate
                    principle were unqualified, for it was the only means by which America could get for her producers
                    the same favors that the producers of other nations had. He was not against tariff for protection,
                    but he was more especially in favor of a tariff for trade; trade for prosperity; and common sense
                    methods for both.7
            
            Senator Charles A. Culberson congratulated Beveridge because he had, to some degree at least, joined
                    the army of revisionists.8 This brought forth the following fiery retort: 
                        I have always belonged to such an army; bat I have not joined, and I never will join any
                            organization which makes the American tariff the football of partisan politics, and that is
                            precisely the difficulty over which we must get in this congress. We have got to get away
                            from the time that every great question which comes up in this body is considered by the
                            leader of either side with reference to what advantage they think there may be in it for
                            their party in the coming campaign. ………… The
                            time has come when the old and outgrown methods of dealing with public questions should be
                            abandoned, and when we in Congress should be as earnest, as up-to-date and as non-partisan,
                            if I may say it, in the doing of the nation's business as the great body of
                            American people who have sent us here to do their business are with reference to their
                                affairs.9
                  
                    
            
            Many of the Senators saw the need for and the justice of this policy. Some of his colleagues
                    expressed themselves in favor of the commission plan, for if the Government had commissions to
                    investigate and get facts on trusts, railroads, industries, merchant marines, and interstate
                    commerce, surely 
                  
                     5 The Committee which made the Dingley bill was composed of one
                            editor, one wood manufacturer, and all the others were lawyers. The Committee of 1908 was
                            composed of one lumberman, one having no occupation at all, and all others were lawyers.
                            This would be a good legislative group, no doubt, but not especially good, nor well trained
                            for economic investigation and legislation. Cong. Record, 60 Cong., 1
                            Seas., p. 1579.
                  
                     6 For a detailed description of the process of tariff making and
                            difficulties under which the committee has to labor see ibid., p. 1580 ff;
                            also see his article in the Annals of the American Academy, XXXII,
                            entitled, "A Permanent Tariff Commission", pp. 409-428.
                  
                     7
                            Cong. Record, 60 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 1583.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., p. 1588.
                  
                     9
                            Cong. Record, 60 Cong., 1 Seas, p. 1613.
               
                     there should be a commission to deal with the tariff when it
                    affects all of the people instead of just a part as the other com missions do.10
                    The majority of the Senators, however, were not willing to follow such a progressive program,
                    preferring to stick with the old methods, and to consider the tariff as a political question.
                    Consequently, when Beveridge found out that it was impossible to get the Senate to consider his bill
                    seriously, he let the matter drop for the time being.
            Beveridge, of course, was not the only one who agitated tariff revision. Many others both in the
                    legislative and executive departments of the government had advocated it as well. The tariff as an
                    issue had entered into the State elections of 
                  Iowa, Wisconsin
                and 
                        Massachusetts
                    , especially.11 Now it developed into a nation-wide issue.
            The Republican National Convention met in 
                        Chicago
                     on June 16, 1908. The platform as adopted on June 19 contained this provision: 
                        The Republican party declares unequivocably for a revision of the tariff by a special session
                            of Congress immediately following the inauguration of the next President. … In
                            all tariff legislation the true principle for protection is best maintained by the
                            imposition of such duties as will equal the difference between the cost of production at
                            home and abroad; together with a reasonable profit to American industries. We favor the
                            establishment of maximum and minimum rates to be administered by the President under
                            limitations fixed by law.12
                  
                    
            
            In accordance with the declaration of the Republican platform, President Taft issued a proclamation
                    on March 6, 1909, calling Congress to convene on March 15 at 12:00, noon.13 In
                    his message to Congress on March 16, he stated: 
                        I have convened Congress in this extra session in order to enable it to give immediate
                            consideration to the revision of the Dingley tariff act. Conditions affecting production,
                            manufacture, and business generally have so changed in the last twelve years as to require a
                            readjustment and revision of the import duties imposed by that act. More than this, the
                            present tariff act, with other sources of government revenue, does not furnish income enough
                            to pay the authorized expenditures.14
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  10
                        Ibid., p. 1578. Senator Francis G. Newlands of 
                            Nevada
                        , a Democrat, was especially in favor of Beveridge's proposal.
               
                  11 Standwood, op. eit., p. 152.
               
                  12
                        Ibid., p. 173.
               
                  13
                        Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Seas., p. 15.
               
                  14
                        Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 49.
            
            
            The House Committee on Ways and Means anticipating an extra session to consider the tariff, had,
                    during the summer and winter of 1908-1909, investigated conditions, and had partially completed a
                    new tariff schedule. When the special session of Congress convened, the House immediately set about
                    to conclude its hearings, and to complete its schedules.15 When this was done,
                    the House passed the tariff bill on April 10, and sent it to the Senate. Senator Aldrich, chairman
                    of the Committee on Finance, reported the bill back to the Senate, together with the
                    Committee's amendments, on April 12.16 A heated debate lasting
                    approximately four months ensued.
            If all the details of this long controversy were to be given, it would result in a treatise as
                    voluminous as the Congressional Record itself. It is, therefore, only possible to
                    summarize, and to give the general trend of the discussions, as well as some of the most salient
                    points brought out in the debates.
            The attack on the tariff schedules as presented by the Senate Committee on Finance, came from within
                    the ranks of the Republican party, for the most part. Albert B. Cummins and Jonathan P. Dolliver of 
                        Iowa
                    , Joseph R. Bristow of 
                        Kansas
                    , LaFollette and Beveridge were the leaders. Some of the Democratic members opposed the
                    bill as well, but others seemed content to have the battle waged by the Middle Western Republicans.
                    There were a few Democrats, however, who even assisted Aldrich, at times, for they had votes to
                    trade, and he could marshall the greatest number.
            The two chief reasons for this Mid-Western revolt were: (1) They were desirous of making a good
                    tariff—one that was based on fact and not on fiction; (2) The schedules as presented by
                    Aldrich did not, on the whole, accomplish a downward but an upward revision. Thus the bill was not
                    in accordance with the spirit and pledge of the Republican party platform of 1908.
            Aldrich and his followers, of course, defended their schedules, but they did not indulge in flowery
                    bits of eloquence, nor engage in lengthy speeches, in support of their amendments. They were sure
                    that they could maintain their schedules without such. They took the position that if a schedule was
                    not right, then it was up to those who opposed it to investigate and to prove to the Senate that it
                    was unsound if they wanted it 
                  
                     15 Twelve volumes of testimony were taken and each schedule was gone
                            over as carefully as possible. Ibid., p. 1852.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., p. 1852.
               
                     changed. If this could not be done, the schedule should stand
                    as the Committee had made it. This is the reason, therefore, for the numerous lengthy speeches made
                    by those who opposed the Committee's recommendations.
            If a new kind of tariff act was to be framed the reformers must win a majority for their policy.
            Beveridge was a most persistent and severe critic of the soundness of the tariff schedules as they
                    came before the Senate. He repeatedly asked the Committee why they had changed different schedules
                    when facts were not given to prove that the changes were necessary or expedient. It appeared to him,
                    as well as to the other, "Progressives," that these changes in the rates were made
                    to suit the Committee's own fancy, or for the benefit of some special or vested interest.
            Senator Eugene Hale, a member of the Committee, explained after Beveridge had made one of his
                    frequent attacks of this sort, that they had been investigating the House schedules for months
                    before the formal bill was presented. He further added: "Our time was all engrossed,
                    confiscated, everything else abandoned, while we considered the propositions. … of the
                    House bill."17
            
            Beveridge considered this argument of Hale as beside the point, as he had not criticised the
                    Committee for lack of consideration, especially, but for the fact that information was not given to
                    substantiate the changes. Beveridge clearly expressed the pith of his contention when he said:
                        
                        There has not been one single additional fact shown to have been before the Senate Committee
                            that was not before the House Committee. In other words, no new information has been given
                            to the Senate to justify the enormous difference in the differential. That is the point.18
                  
                    
            
            On several other occasions Beveridge tried to thwart the attempts of the Finance Committee to rush
                    the bill through. He repeatedly proposed that the Senate should meet at twelve o'clock
                    instead of ten or eleven, as they had been doing, in order to enable those who wished to investigate
                    the schedules more time in which to do it. He warned, on one occasion, that it behooved 
                  
                     17
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Seas., p. 1853. For
                            Lodge's statement on this point see Roosevelt-Lodge, Correspondence, II, pp. 331 and 333.
                  
                     18
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Seas., p. 1853. When Beveridge made a similar
                            attack on the tarrif schedules on May 10, Aldrich defended the Committee. In the course of
                            his remarks, Aldrich referred to the Mid-Western Senators as
                            "progressives". This was an early, if not the first time that they had
                            been called "progressives" on the floor of the Senate. It was used
                            frequently thereafter. Ibid., p. 1887.
               
                     those who were up for reflection in 1910 to investigate the
                    proposed schedules thoroughly, and to make the tariff measure as satisfactory as possible, so that
                    they could go before the people in the next campaign and defend it with good grace and vigor.19
            
            It did not take much investigation to prove conclusively to the "Progressives" that
                    the schedules, as a whole, constituted a revision upward and not downward. Therefore they began to
                    denounce the "standpat" Republicans who were in favor of the bill for breaking the
                    pledge of the Republican party. Denunciation of this group meant that they were also criticising
                    President Talf, in a way, since he was refusing to make any recommendations for downward revision.
                    This inactivity of President Taft came as a result of his attitude toward his office. He asserted
                    that he believed in a constitutional President—a President to act only as an Executive,
                    and not to overstep his powers by trying to influence the course of legislative action. This
                    attitude of the President was thoroughly satisfactory to the conservatives.
            The question naturally arose, "Did the Republican party pledge a revision
                    downward?" In attempting to answer that question it is natural to consult first the
                    platform of 1908. The only thing contained therein to guide the Republican party in making the
                    tariff was the provision: "That the true principle of protection is best maintained by the
                    difference between the cost of production at home and abroad, together with a reasonable profit to
                    American industries."
            The party unequivocally pledged a revision of the tariff on the basis of this principle. But what
                    kind of a revision did this mean, and how was it interpreted at the time that it was first declared?
                    It is obvious that nothing is expressly stated in the wording of the platform to convey an idea of
                    revision upward or downward. John C. Burrows, of 
                        Michigan
                    , the temporary chairman of the Convention, who gave the keynote speech, acknowledged
                    that the party was pledged for a revision, but stated that the cardinal principles of protection to
                    home industries and labor should be kept in mind when making that revision. He definitely asserted:
                        
                        Whatever revision or readjustment takes place under the control of the Republican Party, it
                            will give just and adequate protection to American 
                        
                           19
                                    Ibid., pp. 1742-3.
                     
                             industries and American labor and defend the market
                            against the unjust and unequal agression from whatever quarter they may come.20
                  
                    
            
            The Review of Reviews regarded the platform declaration as purely a protective
                    plank, and that the only significant thing about it was that a general overhauling of the tariff was
                    promised. What kind of a revision might be expected was a matter that must be taken on
                    faith." The Worlds Work stated: "We are on the eve of a pretense
                    and perhaps an effort to reform the tariff."22
            
            The 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News did not regard this plank as being an unusual one, nor did it contain a
                    promise for a radical revision. In fact it was considered as quite inoffensive even to the
                    "standpatters", because the last phrase—"Reasonable profit to
                    the producer"—was very indefinite, and under it anything might happen.23
            
            However, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times expressed a somewhat different view. "Logically construed,
                    according to known facts, the tariff plank proposed for the Republican convention is a free trade
                    plank as to a very large portion of our actual and possible foreign commerce."24
            
            As the campaign of 1908 progressed, there were no doubts in the minds of the people in regard to the
                    proper interpretation of the tariff plank in the platform. William Howard Taft, the Republican
                    nominee for President, repeatedly stated in his western speeches prior to his election that the
                    tariff pledge as he conceived it meant a substantial revision downward. If the
                    "standpatters" then believed otherwise, they considered that it was inexpedient to
                    contradict Taft's utterances. The party needed the western votes in order to be successful
                    in the fall elections. Beveridge, who toured the entire country in the interests of the party in
                    1908, expressed similar views, as well as many other Middle Western campaign speakers. As a result,
                    it was almost universally accepted that the party as a follower of Taft was pledged to a downward
                    revision with but few increases.
            When the cotton schedules were attacked by the Progressives 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Record-Herald, June 17, 1908.
                  
                     21
                            Review of Reviews, XXXVIII. p. 14. (July 1908).
                  
                     22
                            Worlds Work, XVI, p. 10410. (July 1908).
                  
                     23
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 19, 1908.
                  
                     24
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, June 16, 1908.
               
                     for being too high, Lodge defended the Committee's
                    recommendations. Before he began his defense of the Committee, as well as of the manufacturing
                    interests of his State, he stated what he believed to be the true nature of revision with which
                    Congress was charged, because he thought that the cotton schedule was a fair sample of what a proper
                    revision ought to be. He thus gave an account of his views: 
                        Early in this debate the Senator from 
                                Rhode Island
                             (Mr. Aldrich) and I happened to state incidentally that the Republican
                            declaration of principles contained no pledge or promise for a revision downward or a
                            revision upward. For that statement we were severely criticised. We could not have been more
                            severely criticised if we had uttered a falsehood instead of stating, as we did, the exact
                            truth. I desire, therefore, to call attention very briefly to what was actually said and
                            done by the Republican national convention at 
                                Chicago
                            . I had the honor to preside three days at that convention after it was
                            organized. I had been at 
                                Chicago
                             for ten days previously, in attendance upon the national committee. I think I
                            saw and spoke with as many delegates as anyone there. I am certain that I followed all the
                            proceedings of that convention with the closest possible attention. If the words
                            "downward revision" or "upward revision" occurred in any
                            official utterance, or were suggested by any delegate, they entirely escaped my notice; but
                            as memory is fallible, I have taken occasion to look over the official stenographic report
                            of the proceedings of the convention. The officers of the convention who spoke, and who in a
                            sense, I suppose, may be considered to have expressed the views of the convention and the
                            policies of the party, as they understood them, were the temporary and the permanent
                            chairman. The temporary chairman, the senior Senator from 
                                Michigan
                             (Mr. Burrows) in referring to the tariff. ……. made no
                            allusion to what direction the tariff should take. The permanent chairman [Senator Lodge
                            himself] made not allusion to the tariff whatever in his speech. He dealt with other
                            questions.
                    
            
            Lodge then referred to the platform and the plank regarding the tariff. He briefly stated in his own
                    words what the paragraph declared and then asserted: "It said nothing as to what the
                    revision should be or what direction it should take."
            Henry Allen Cooper of 
                        Wisconsin
                     submitted a minority report on the tariff to the Republican national convention which
                    was rejected by a vote of 952 to 28. Lodge thus summarized Cooper's report: 
                        This minority report on the tariff repeated the protection principle set forth in the
                            majority report and differed only in advocating the use of the tariff or, rather, the free
                            list, in order to reach trusts and combinations. …….  Other than this there was no further allusion to the tariff in
                            the proceedings at 
                                Chicago
                            .
                    
            
            Lodge, however, accepted Taft's interpretation of the meaning of the platform which implied
                    a downward revision of many schedules, and quoted from his speech of acceptance delivered at 
                        Cincinnati
                     on July 28, 1908. The President had asserted: 
                        The tariff in a number of the schedules exceeds the difference between the cost of production
                            of such articles abroad and at home, including a reasonable profit for the producer. The
                            excess over the difference serves no useful purpose, but offers a temptation to those who
                            would monopolize the production and sale of such articles in this country to profit by the
                            excessive rate. On the other hand, there are some few other schedules in which the tariff is
                            not sufficiently high to give the measure of protection which they should receive upon
                            Republican principles, and as to those, the tariff should be raised.
                    
            
            Lodge then explained the origin of this Republican idea of the tariff. In concluding his argument in
                    regard to what the Republican party pledged, he definitely stated: 
                        The principle of providing in tariff rates for the difference in labor costs is the sound
                            principle laid down by the Republican party by which all tariff changes must be controlled.
                            Beyond this the Republican convention did not go. They said that they would revise the
                            tariff oh this principle, and stopped then. What, then, does revision mean and who is to
                            decide as to its character or extent? Revision means going over the whole subject, reviewing
                            it, leaving unaltered what is good, making changes where changes are needed. It does not
                            mean that all the changes in the rates should be downward, for that would not be revision,
                            but reduction. It does not mean that all changes should be upward, for that would be advance
                            and not revision. It does not mean to exclude classifications where an old classification is
                            imperfect.
                        Revision covers all of these things and is confined to no one of them. As for revision
                            downward, although there was no promise or pledge by the party for that any more than a
                            revision upward, it is no doubt expected that the result of revision would be more
                            reductions than increases. That is the precise view expressed by the President. That was the
                            view generally taken. But the question of what the reductions should be, and what increases,
                            if any, was one for the majority of the House and the Senate to decide. We were not pledged
                            to meet the view as to a downward revision held by one Senator or group of Senators, or to
                            accede to the demand for increases.
                        It is for the majority in both Houses to decide what constitutes a proper revision in all
                                directions.25
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  25
                        Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Sees., pp. 2629-2630.
            
            
            Nevertheless Lodge boasted of the fact that a great many reductions had been made, and immediately
                    following the above given statements he carefully pointed out the number of reductions in comparison
                    with the number of increases. He also stated: 
                        The general feeling that revision of the tariff would result in reductions and not in
                            advances is absolutely carried out in this bill, and the contrary impression which has been
                            given out here and sedulously accepted and fostered by a portion of the press is unfounded
                            and untrue.26
                  
                    
            
            In the opinion of Senator LaFollette, Beveridge rendered the country a distinct service when he
                    brought together, in logical order, the declaration of President Taft on tariff revision.27 These excerpts from the President's speeches during the campaign of
                    1908 were collected and read to the Senate in order to prove conclusively that there was a definite
                    downward revision sentiment, being clearly expressed by the President himself, and that the
                    "Progressives" were justified in fighting for this sort of a revision. These
                    compiled statements also justified the charge that the spirit of the Republican pledge for a
                    downward revision was being broken, for the party as followers of Taft had promised this kind of a
                    revision.
            In his speech at 
                        Cincinnati
                     on September 22, 1908, Taft had stated: 
                        The movement in favor of revision has risen within the Republican party and is pressed
                            forward by members of the Republican party.
                        The revision which they desire is a revision which shall reduce the excessive rates and at
                            the same time preserve the industries of the country. I wish there to be no doubt in respect
                            to tariff revision. I am a tariff revisionist and have been one since the question has been
                                mooted.28
                  
                    
            
            He spoke in Milwaukee on September 24, 1908, expressing his views in this way: 
                        The tariff is greater than the differential between the cost of production at home and
                            abroad, and that it should therefore be reduced.
                        I can say that our party is pledged to a genuine revision and as temporary head of that
                            party, and President of the 
                                United States
                            , if it be successful in November, I expect to use all of the influence that I
                            have by calling immediately a special session and secure a genuine and honest revision of
                            the tariff in accordance with the principle laid down in the platform. …
                        
                     
                        26
                                Cong. Record, 61 Cone., 1 Sess., p. 2631.
                     
                        27
                                Ibid., p. 2661.
                     
                        28
                                
                                    Cincinnati
                                
                                Inquirer. September 28, 1908. Quoted In ibid., p.
                                2358.
                  
                        
                        It is my judgment that a revision of the tariff in accordance with the pledge of the
                            Republican party will be, on the whole a substantial revision downward, though there
                            probably will be a few exceptions.29
                  
                    
            
            At Des Moines, 
                        Iowa
                    , on September 25, 1908, Taft expressed similar views: 
                        I expect to use all the influence that I have by calling immediately a special session and by
                            recommendations to Congress to secure a genuine and honest revision of the tariff in accordance with the principle of protection laid down
                            in the platforu, based upon the examination of appropriate evidence and impartial between
                            the consumer and the manufacturer.
                        It is my judgment that a revision of the tariff in accordance with the pledge of the
                            Republican party will be, on the whole, a substantial revision downward.
                        As the temporary leader of the party I do not hesitate to say with all emphasis of which I am
                            capable that if the party is given the mandate of power in November it will perform its
                            promises in good faith.30
                  
                    
            
            It is obvious that the tariff plank was put in the platform in order to get votes. It is also just as
                    apparent that there was a difference of opinion in regard to the meaning of the declaration, for
                    each person interpreted it as it would best serve his local interests. The Middle Western Senators
                    honestly believed that a downward revision was pledged, but it was to their interests to do so and
                    they thought that it was the intention of the party. The "standpatters" maintained
                    that the plank contained no definite pledge for a downward revision, because a high tariff would be
                    beneficial to their constituents. However, all were agreed on the principle that the tariff schedule
                    would be fixed at a level, no higher than necessary to equalize the cost of production at home and
                    abroad, and to insure a reasonable profit to the American producers.
            In an address to the 
                        Ohio
                     Society of 
                        New York
                     on December 17, 1908, the President stated: "Better have no revision at all,
                    better that a new bill should fail, unless we have an honest and thorough revision on the basis laid
                    down and the principles outlined in the party platform."31
            
            In his inaugural address President Taft reiterated his view of the tariff revision. This is the most
                    important of all his 
                  
                     29 Milwaukee Sentinel, Sept. 26, 1908; quoted in Cong.
                                Record, 61 Cong., 1 Seas., p. 2358.
                  
                     30 Des Moines Register and Leader, September 26,
                            1908. Quoted in ibid., p. 2359.
                  
                     31
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, quoted in ibid., p. 2359.
               
                     statements in respect to the tariff for he was now President
                    and was giving out an official statement.
            
                    It is thought that there has been such a change in conditions since the enactment of the Dingley
                        act. … that the measure of the tariff stated (in the platform) will permit the
                        reduction of rates in certain schedules and will require the advancement of few, if any.32
               
                
            Beveridge also referred to a statement made by Porter J. McCumber of 
                        North Dakota
                    , a member of the Finance Committee. At the beginning of a speech, in which he attacked
                    the lumber schedule, McCumber had stated: 
                        Tariff revision this year is universally understood to mean a revision downward. The public
                            expect, and have a right to expect, from every public address made in that last political
                            campaign, and that there will be a general reduction in our tariff duties.33
                  
                    
            
            Several other Senators, in the course of the debates in the Senate, stated that the pledge as they
                    understood it was for a revision downward. In this group are to be found the names of Cummins, Moses
                    E. Clapp, LaFollette, Nelson, Dolliver, Norris, 
                        Brown
                    , Coe I. Crawford, Elmer J. Burkett, Joseph L. Bristow, Borah and others.
            Beveridge made an excellent summary of the issue when he declared: 
                        The differences [between the two factions in the Senate—the
                            "progressives" and the "standpatters"] are differences
                            in the degree of reduction, differences in the degree of rates. There is no difference in
                            principle. ……. But it is not fair to say, and it will not be permitted
                            that it shall be said that those who believe as the President has said, that "rates
                            are excessive" or some of them, and therefore ask that they be reduced, shall be
                            condemned as being any less earnestly protectionists than others; for we think we are
                            equally earnest and more wise protectionists. That we are equally earnest, we know; that we
                            are more farseeing and more wise protectionists, time will show.34
                  
                    
            
            Senator Cummins of 
                        Iowa
                     was accorded the leadership of the Republican "Progressives," if such
                    a distinction could be given to any one man, in the attack on the various schedules. Opposition to
                    the tariff was not a new thing for him, for he 
                  
                     32
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Seas., p. 2359.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., p. 2360.
                  
                     34
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong. 1 Sess., p. 2360.
               
                     believed, and had been insisting for seven years, that the
                    schedules of the law of 1897 were too high and should be revised. It was because of this, that he
                    had been elected to the Senate He now continued to defend his belief with all the vigor and
                    earnestness of which he was capable.35 He was so severe in his attack on the
                    steel, wool, and window glass schedules that Aid rich questioned his Republicanism. This brought
                    forth this fiery retort from the 
                        Iowa
                     Senator: 
                        Is it to be tolerated that a Republican. … coming from the ranks can not differ
                            from the judgment of the Finance Committee without incurring the penalty of having his
                            republicanism challenged time and time again? …. The Finance Committee composed
                            of honorable, intelligent broad-minded, experienced men, is still not the ark of the
                            covenant of Republican faith. Inasmuch as the revision of the tariff as demanded in the
                            Republican platform last year came from a demand on the part of these same people whose
                            courage I helped to sustain and whose energies I helped to direct, I have a right to stand
                            here and assert that these schedules do not represent the only Republican doctrine known
                            among men.
                    
            
            Senator Dolliver took it upon himself to investigate the textile schedules. The provisions relating
                    to silk, wool, and cotton were the chief point of his attack.36 LaFollette
                    severely criticised the bar-iron schedule on May 14; and on June 1 and 2, he attacked the cotton
                    schedule with so much fervor and earnestness that he completely exhausted himself.37
            
            While LaFollette was making his speech on the bar-iron schedule Senator Elihu Root became quite
                    restless. He was disgusted with the "Progressives" in general for their extended
                    attack on the methods of the Finance Committee. He decided that it would be wise as well as
                    beneficial to defend the Senator from 
                        Rhode Island
                     and his committee, and censure the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Senator for his long windedness. He, therefore, proceeded to inform the Senate, but in
                    particular Mr. LaFollette, that they should use business-like methods and statements instead of
                    declamations and orations for use back home.38 LaFollette of course answered
                    him, saying, "I will be the judge for myself of the share I take in the discussions of
                        measures."39
            
            
               
                  35
                        Ibid., p. 1775-1776.
               
                  36
                        Cong. lecord, 61 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 1739 ff.
               
                  37
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, June 3, 1909.
               
                  38
                        Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 2038; 3043.
               
                  39
                        Ibid., p. 2044.
            
            
            Senator Root's criticism of the procedure and methods used by the Senate was not becoming to
                    him as a new Senator, and it was not taken with good grace by many of the members. Senator Hernando
                    D. Money of 
                        Mississippi
                    , on May 14, took it upon himself to discipline his noted colleague. He instructed this
                    eminent lawyer and former cabinet member that he had delivered a lecture to the Senate as to how it
                    should conduct its business, and how individual Senators should conduct themselves and then
                    delivered his rebuke: 
                        When he (Mr. Root) has got fairly warm in his seat and has learned a little more about the
                            Senate he will not indulge himself in any lectures on this subject (laughter), for two
                            reasons: First, because they are utterly ineffectual curtain lectures, and they are
                            generally the outcome of a brand-new Member; and, in the next place, they are utterly
                            unnecessary. He will understand, also that the most unfortunate thing that has happened to
                            the Senate is having a new Senator come in here and do things on
                            "business" methods. … We want a man, when he comes here, to
                            drop his business methods at the door and adopt the legislative and senatorial methods or
                            the best way for transacting the public business.
                    
            
            After commenting on various subjects Money again returned to the subject of Mr. Root and his
                    "business methods" speech, saying: 
                        It does not become a man, however important he may consider himself, or whatever position the
                            world may give him, to come into the Chamber of his peers and tell us that we can not talk,
                            or that we ought to talk or that we ought to do business in this way or that way which may
                            happen to be approved by his judgment or his taste, or his habits, or his opinion, or
                            anything else that concerns him. We come here to do exactly as we please, each one
                            responsible to his constituents, and to no one else in this world.40
                  
                    
            
            McCumber severely attacked the lumber schedule, while Bristow opposed the lead schedule. Democratic
                    Senators, of course, challenged the schedules at various times, as did other Republicans, when their
                    local interests demanded a change in the rates. This indicates that the tariff was in some respects
                    a local interest rather than a national one and that revenue for the government was of secondary
                    importance, while local protection. 
                  
                     40
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Sees., p. 2045. This Speech is given here in
                            order to show the Senate's attitude on attempts to change the methods and to limit
                            debates. It partially explains why Vice-President Dawes did not get any farther than he did
                            in his recent attempt to reform the Senate.
               
                     was the paramount consideration to a number of individual
                    members.
            Amendments were submitted∗ discussed, and voted on from May 5 until
                    July 8. A survey of the votes cast on the various schedules shows that Beveridge, 
                        Brown
                     and Burkett of 
                        Nebraska
                    , Bristow of 
                        Kansas
                    , Cummins and Dolliver of 
                        Iowa
                    , La-Follette of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and Nelson of Minnesota were the most consistent in their voting against the committee
                    recommendations and in favor of revisions downward. Clapp of 
                        Minnesota
                     and Robert J. Gamble and Crawford of 
                        South Dakota
                     rank next in the constancy of their opposition. Borah of 
                        Idaho
                    , Charles E. Curtis of 
                        Kansas
                    , and McCumber and Martin N. Johnson of North Dakota frequently changed sides according
                    to their interest in the commodities affected. However, that statement also applies to certain
                    "Progressives," for when it came to duties on local commodities some of them voted
                    in favor of maintaining the Committee's schedules if not for higher rates.
            Some of the Democrats had no scruples against voting with the "standpatters" when
                    it was to their interests to have a high tariff rate. Twelve Democrats voted with the Committee to
                    pass the lumber schedule,41 while the coal schedule was passed with ten
                    Democrats voting in favor of it.42 Other Democrats voted consistently against
                    the Republicans because of their love for opposing them or because of traditional antagonism to the
                    policy of protection, while several others were so disinterested that they failed to vote on many
                    occasions. On the whole, the votes indicate that the divisions on the tariff schedules were, for the
                    most part, based on economic considerations rather than on strict political affiliations.43
            
            Beveridge's general opposition to the "standpatters" was probably the most
                    outstanding characteristic of his course during this great tariff controversy; but he was not merely
                    an opponent of the Committee. On May 14, he submitted an amendment which provided for an internal
                    revenue tax on tobacco, especially on high priced cigars. He also asked, by means of a resolution,
                    for all information collected by the Department of Commerce in regard to tobacco prices and the
                        
                  
                     41
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 4809.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., p. 4809.
                  
                     43 For a brief of all the votes cast from May 5 to July 8 on the
                            various amendments see ibid., pp. 4792-4818.
               
                     operations of corporations and others dealing in the growth,
                    manufacture, and sale of tobacco." This information was submitted to him (Senate Document
                    No. 78), and by thoroughly studying the statistics contained therein he obtained the basis for his
                    attack on the American Tobacco Company on June 24.
            In this speech Beveridge brought to light the workings and the exact nature of this tobacco trust.
                    The facts which he brought out were astounding, and they thoroughly convinced the majority of the
                    Senators that remedial legislation was necessary. He revealed that in the last eight years, on the
                    authority of Congress, the tobacco trust had been allowed to collect on an average of twenty
                    millions of dollars annually in excess profits. To be exact, in eight years the company had received
                    $184,090,557.43 which should have flowed into the treasury of the 
                        United States
                    .45 He then explained just how this was done. In 1898, when the
                    government had imposed a war tax on tobacco, the manufacturers had been permitted to sell smaller
                    packages for old prices rather than increasing the price of the package. This enabled the public to
                    pay the same amount of money for a package as they formerly had done, but they actually obtained
                    less tobacco. This differential, then, was sufficient to pay the tax. It was simply an indirect
                    method of taxing the people. In the session of 1901-02, this war tax had been removed by Congress,
                    but no statement was made in regard to the weight of the packages. In fact Congress did not have the
                    right to stipulate that a certain amount of tobacco should be put into a package, and that a certain
                    price should be received for it, because this would have been price fixing pure and simple. As a
                    result the manufacturers continued to put the same amount of tobacco in their packages as they had
                    during the Spanish-American war, and retained the same price level. In this way, then, the tobacco
                    companies, and especially the American Tobacco Company, which Beveridge asserted was the most
                    compact and effective private monopoly in existence,46 had been drawing into
                    their coffers millions annually. Since it was not in the province of congressional legislation to
                    dictate prices, the only thing to do, as Beveridge saw it, was to reestablish a tax on tobacco and
                    turn this stream of money into the proper channel—the Government Treasury. If the people
                        
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., p. 2028.
                  
                     45
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Sees., pp. 2022 ff.
                  
                     46
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Sees., p. 2024.
               
                     were to be taxed as they were being taxed under the
                    Government's authority, then the money should go into the official treasury.47 Other portions of the speech were made in explanation and support of the various parts
                    of this amendment. On the whole it was a most complete indictment of the tobacco trust based on
                    facts as taken from their records in the Department of Commerce.48
                    "This exposition of the history of the tobacco taxes", says the Review of Reviews, "was the one conspiciously strong piece of purely budgetary
                    analysis and argument made during the entire session in either house."49 As a result, Beveridge won the eternal enmity of the tobacco trust.
            On July 8, Senator Aldrich "called up" Beveridge's amendment and after
                    Senator Reed Smoot, a member of the Committee on Finance had proposed several changes in the form of
                    additional sections,50 a vote was taken. The amendment was passed 52 to 25.51
            
            Under the maximum and minimum rate clause of the tariff bill the Committee on Finance had inserted
                    the following provision: 
                        To secure information to assist the President in the discharge of the duties imposed on him
                            by this section, and information which will be useful to Congress in tariff legislation and
                            to the officers of the Government in the administration of the customs laws, the President
                            is hereby authorized to employ such persons as may be required to make thorough
                            investigations and examinations into the production, commerce, and trade of the 
                                United States
                             and foreign countries, and all conditions affecting the same.52
                  
                    
            
            This provision, as accepted by the Senate, was the result of the cooperative work of Aldrich and
                    Beverdige. When Beveridge had explained his proposal for a tariff commission in the Senate on
                    February 5, 1908,53 Aldrich had been but slightly interested; but at the
                    beginning of this session, when Beveridge presented Aldrich with his original bill for
                    consideration, he agreed that some such provision was necessary. However, Aid-rich would not accept
                    the plan "in toto", so he drafted a bill and 
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., p. 3741.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., pp. 3723-3743.
                  
                     49
                            Review of Reviews, XV, p. 189.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., p. 4245.
                  
                     51
                            Review of Reviews, XV, p. 4264. Many of the teeth were taken out of this
                            law by the conference on the tariff by the Senate and the House conferees. For fuller
                            explanation see Beveridge's speech in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 5, 1910.
                  
                     52
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 4838.
                  
                     53 See Ibid., 60 Cong., 2 Sess., under data
                            mentioned.
               
                     submitted it to Beveridge. It was not as broad as Beveridge
                    thought it should be, so on the suggestion of Aldrich, he redrafted his original bill. Even this was
                    too broad for Aldrich to accept. This process of drafting and counter-drafting, lasting about two
                    weeks, finally produced the draft which was passed by the Senate." In the conference of the
                    House and the Senate on the tariff bill this provision was made still more general, giving the
                    President greater discretionary powers in regard to the work which the tariff commission was to
                    perform and putting it at the disposal of the President entirely. Beveridge opposed this change for
                    it was his intention to have this commission investigate conditions which affected the tariff and
                    report their findings to Congress to be used as a basis for the formulation of correct tariff
                    schedules. According to this modified provision the commission could only report to the President,
                    and would only be of benefit to Congress through the President's recommendations.
            Beveridge had not expected to get his original tariff commission bill adopted by the Senate, for it
                    was his policy in all great reforms to get the principle established, if possible, and settle on the
                    details at a later date. This provision of the Payne-Aldrich tariff act, although quite different in
                    details from Beveridge's recommendation, established the principle of a commission composed
                    of experts to assist in the formulation and administration of the tariff laws. Due credit must be
                    given Beveridge for promoting, if not originating, the idea of a tariff commission.
            The tariff bill was passed by the Senate on July 8 by a vote of 45 to 34." Albert J.
                    Beveridge of Indiana, Joseph L. Bristow of 
                        Kansas
                    , Norris 
                        Brown
                     and Elmer J. Burkett of 
                        Nebraska
                    , Moses E. Clapp and Knute Nelson of Minnesota, Coe I. Crawford of 
                        South Dakota
                    , Albert B. Cummins and Jonathan P. Dolliver of 
                        Iowa
                    , and Robert M. LaFollette of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , were the ten Republican Senators who voted against the bill. These men had put forth
                    their utmost efforts to get the rates of the various schedules reduced. They had not succeeded, for
                    almost every committee recommendation had been adopted by a comfortable majority. They firmly
                    believed that the party had pledged a revision downward, and their constituents had voted for Taft
                    on November 3, with that belief; but this tariff 
                  
                     54
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Seas., p. 4861.
                  
                     55
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 4316.
               
                     bill was not a fulfillment of that pledge. Therefore, in order
                    to register their final disapproval of the proceedings in the Senate and to keep faith with the
                    pledge of 1908, they voted "nay".
            A plot of this Senate vote shows the general distribution as well as the geographical divisions on
                    this economic question. New 
                        England
                     and the Far West united to pass the schedule while ten Republicans voted with the
                    Democrats in opposition to the bill. The States in the Mississippi valley, with
                    the exception of 
                        Illinois
                    , were almost unanimous in their opposition to the bill and the principles for which it
                        stood.56
            
            The significance of this vote lies in the fact that the majority of the States of the West which gave
                    Taft electoral votes in 1908, had now lost confidence in him; that the agricultural West was in
                    revolt against the commercial domination of the East; "progressivism" was
                    revolting against "standpatism"; and the States of the Great Valley whether
                    Republican or Democratic were in earnest and ready to revolt against the doctrine of special
                    privilege for which Aldrich stood, and against the party denomination of Speaker Cannon.
            The House refused to concur in the Senate amendments, and according to regular procedure, the bill
                    went into conference. The House conferees, headed by Sereno E. Payne of 
                        New York
                    , included six Republicans and three Democrats, while the Senate members of whom Aldrich
                    was chairman, included five Republicans and three Democrats. Some of the disagreements between the
                    two houses could be settled without much difficulty, while other questions presented graver
                    problems. The President was invited by the Conference Committee to express his views or to act as
                    arbiter between the two houses. It was here that he first used his influence, to any great extent,
                    to obtain lower rates. It seems that he did all he could at this late hour, single handed, to secure
                    reductions, for he favored the lower rates in each schedule. But his hands were tied, in many
                    respects, because the established conference rules prohibited the making of new rates. After the
                    bill was in conference new rates could be secured only by concurrent resolutions passed by both
                    houses. Therefore, the President could only choose between the House and Senate schedules. If he
                    be-lived that neither was satisfactory he could now do nothing whatever. Aldrich and Cannon, who
                    represented in fact, the 
                  
                     56 All of the Republican Senators who voted nay
                            represented North Central States. Only Beveridge and LaFollette lived east of the 
                                Mississippi
                            .
               
                     real power behind the conferees, were fairly certain that the
                    bill would not be vetoed no matter what happened or did not happen while the measure was in
                    conference. They felt certain that the President was especially pleased with four of the provisions
                    of the bill—to-wit, the corporation tax, the customs court, the tariff commission, and
                    the maximum and minimum rate provision—and would not veto it on this account.
                    Consequently, Aldrich, as well as the House conferees who were in favor of high rates, was rather
                    uncompromising at times; and Taft, although he made many recommendations, was neither firm enough
                    nor domineering enough to force Aldrich and the "standpatters" to acquiesce in
                    many instances. The President was more of an arbiter than a commander. As a result, according to the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times, out of one hundred ninety-nine cases where Taft made recommendations
                    eighty-three of the higher rates were agreed upon, seventy-nine of the lower rates were accepted,
                    and the two houses compromised on thirty-seven points.57 However, the number of
                    reductions or increases is not a true index of the significance of reductions or increases made.
                    This must be determined by the volume of the trade engaged in in each community under consideration.
                    A comparison on this basis only would give an accurate estimate of the results.
            The conferees agreed on a report on July 30. The House accepted this conference report on July 31,
                    but the Senate considered the report more seriously. However, on August 5, it was accepted by a vote
                    of 47 to 331.58 after the passage of a concurrent resolution amending the rates
                    in the leather schedule by both houses. Beveridge, Bristow, Clapp, Cummins, Dolliver, LaFollette,
                    and Nelson were the Republicans who were still dissatisfied with the bill. They were not soothed by
                    the belated action of the President, and these seven "Progressives" courageously
                    voted against the bill in its final form.
            The President approved the bill soon after it was presented to him. He then gave this estimate of the
                    bill: 
                        I have signed the Payne Tariff bill because I believe it to be the result of a sincere effort
                            on the part of the Republican Party to make a downward revision, and to comply with the
                            promises of the platform as 
                        
                           57
                                    
                                        New York
                                    
                                    Times, July 31, 1909.
                        
                           58
                                    Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 4949. 
                                        Brown
                                     and Burkett of 
                                        Nebraska
                                    , and Crawford of 
                                        South Dakota
                                    , Republicans, who had voted against the bill on July 8, voted in favor
                                    of the measure.
                     
                             they have been generally understood, and as I
                            interpreted them in the campaign before the election.
                        The bill is not a perfect tariff bill or a complete compliance with the promises made,
                            strictly interpreted, but a fulfillment free from criticism in respect to a subject matter
                            involving many schedules and thousands of articles could not be expected.
                            …… There have been few increases in the bill, (wines and luxuries
                            excepted). There have been a great number of real decreases in the rates and they constitute
                            a sufficient amount to justify a substantial revision downward, and a reduction of the
                            excessive rates.59
                  
                    
            
            The Payne-Aldrich law was at once closely scrutinized and severely criticised by press and people
                    throughout the Nation. Some pronounced it the worst tariff law that had ever been passed, because a
                    few of the schedules, as they viewed them, were atrocious, unfair, or made for the benefit of some
                    special interest. Many of the people thought that the special session of Congress had not been worth
                    while, for they had made a vain attempt to remedy the tariff, and in the process had broken the
                    pledge of the Republican party for a downward re vision. Not only had Congress repudiated this
                    pledge, but they had entirely disregarded, and had failed to apply, for the most part, the principle
                    set forth in the platform as to what constituted the true basis for a tariff
                    revision—to-wit, the difference between the cost of production at home and abroad. They
                    could not apply this principle, because they had made very little actual effort, if any, to find out
                    what this differential was. However, there were many who upheld the President and ad mired him for
                    his efforts during the conference, and who thought that the Payne-Aldrich tariff was an admirable
                    one. The Outlook definitely stated its opinion of the President and the new law.
                    "He [the President] has succeeded, and the bill in final form is by far the most
                    enlightened protectionist measure in the history of our country. …."60
            
            
               The Nation, although it severely denounced several of the schedules, thought the
                    bill as a whole was an admirable one. After reviewing the entire matter this conclusion was
                    presented to readers: 
                        It is only just to admit that the President's insistence did wring something from
                            the high-tariff extortionists. Bad as the final bill is in many 
                        
                           59
                                    
                                        New York
                                     Times, August 6, 1909.
                        
                           60
                                    Outlook, XCII, p. 873. (Aug. 14, 1909). This view is based upon
                                    the special provision contained in the Act—to-wit, the corporation tax,
                                    customs court, tariff commission, and maximum and minimum rates.
                     
                             features it still has to be said of it.
                            …that it is the best tariff law ever enacted by the Republican party.61
                  
                    
            
            
               The Worlds Work, The Review of Reviews, The Independent, and many others could not
                    see that the new tariff law-was as good as they and the country had been justified in expecting. The
                    big question was, why did Taft withhold his recommendations for so long? The
                        Independent on July 29, expressed its view of the situation and clearly stated the point in
                    this way while the conferees were at work: 
                        It is difficult to understand why the President, who is so actively insisting on reduction at
                            this late day, and so persistently exerting his influence to obtain them, not only made no
                            effort whatever for a downward revision throughout the weeks and months he could have
                            accomplished something, because the insurmountable difficulties which now confront him did
                            not exist, but permitted the insurgent Republican Senators, as they were exposing the
                            unequitable rates, to believe that their movement had his disapproval.62
                  
                    
            
            It seems reasonable to believe that if President Taft had disregarded some of his constitutional
                    scruples at an earlier date, and had insisted on his views, if he had any, as every other President
                    has had to do, that a real downward revision might have been accomplished. It is rather obvious that
                    he thought that he would lose the support of the conservative majority by aiding the progressive
                    minority, and that if he remained relatively quiet and let the legislative body solve their own
                    problems that party harmony might be maintained. Whatever course he chose to follow, his action or
                    inaction was sure to cause dissatisfaction within the Republican ranks. He chose to remain quiet and
                    as inoffensive as possible, and as a result he definitely identified himself with the
                    "standpatters". It seems logical to believe that his activities before the
                    conference committee was an attempt to win oack the progressive element of the West. But he had
                    waited too long. By this delay he lost his opportunity to live up to his campaign
                    promises— promises so easy to make, but very difficult to fulfill after the bill had been
                    passed by the Senate.
            Is it any wonder, then, that the progressive Republicans thought that Taft had betrayed their
                    confidence, after having made definite promises in his campaign speeches, in the 
                  
                     61
                            The Nation, LXXXVIII, p. 112 (Aug. 6, 1909).
                  
                     62
                            Independent, LXVII, pp. 260-261 (July 29, 1909).
               
                     one at Milwaukee in particular; after having failed to make
                    recommendations to assist them in their struggle for lower rates while the bill was in the Senate;
                    and after later having made a speech at 
                  Winona,
                            Minnesota
               , in defense of the tariff in
                    which he declared without hesitation that the Payne-Aldrich Act was the best tariff measure that the
                    Republican Party had ever passed.63 After this a break in the Republican party
                    was inevitable.
            This rift in the Republican party, already quite obvious, became more pronounced in 1910 when a bill
                    providing for a 
                        United States
                     Court of Commerce was up for consideration. The purpose of the bill was to expedite the
                    settlement of cases arising under the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887 and all amendments thereto.
                    Under the old system of District Court and Circuit Court jurisdiction it was thought that there had
                    been too much delay in the court proceedings on account of the volume of other business with which
                    each of these courts had to deal. It was therefore considered expedient to establish this special
                    court to deal with commerce cases alone.
            Senator Cummins again led the attack against the "standpatters" who were favoring
                    the bill. He was satisfied with the system then in operation, and showed, by a review of all the
                    cases brought before Federal courts in the past four years, that the 
                        United States
                     District Courts and Circuit Courts were efficient and handled the cases with a minimum
                    amount of delay. In fact, they had been disposed of with more celerity than any other cases in the
                    circuit courts of the 
                        United States
                    . Furthermore, only twenty-eight cases had been brought before the courts the previous
                    four years, and even with the cases that might arise under the increased powers of the Interstate
                    Commerce Commission, there would not be a large enough number of litigations to warrant the
                    expenditure of $150,000 a year for salaries and other expenses connected with the
                    proposed court.64
            
            Beveridge was not opposed to a separate court. In fact he favored such specialization, but he could
                    not see the value of creating this court when there was no work for it to perfrom which was not
                    already easily, quickly, and satisfactorily performed by the nine Circuit Courts. Consequently, he
                    voted for the Cummins amendment, which was to strike out those sections 
                  
                     63
                            Presidential Messages and State Papers, of William Howard Taft, p. 226.
                  
                     64
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., pp. 6326-6328.
               
                     of the bill creating this special court. The other Republican
                    Senators who voted for the amendment were: Borah, Bristow, Clapp, Crawford, Cummins, Dolliver, and
                        LaFollette.65 On the other proposed amendments this division remained
                    practically the same.66 All of these Senators, however, voted for the bill when
                    it came before the Senate for a final consideration. The vote stood, yeas 50, nays 12.67
            
            A resolution to create permanently and define the duties of a Tariff Board was submitted to the House
                    on January 30, 1911. Mr. Dalzell explained that in accordance with a clause in the maximum and
                    minimum rate provision of the Payne-Aldrich tariff act, President Taft had appointed three men to
                    assist him in the administration of this tariff law. These men, organized as a tariff bureau, had
                    been known as a Tariff Board; but there were no specifications as to the duties which they were to
                    perform. This bill, drafted in accordance with the President's recommendation, increased
                    the membership of the Board from three to five and defined its powers and duties. After some
                    discussion, the bill was passed by a vote of 186 to 93.68
            
            When the bill came before the Senate for consideration Beveridge was one of its chief defenders,
                    because it was in substance the same bill which he had advocated in 1908. After minor amendments
                    were agreed to, the Senate passed the bill on March 4, 1911, by a vote of 56 to 23.69 It was then sent to the House and was referred to the Committee on Ways and Means.70 It failed to get any further, because there was no time before adjournment in
                    which to consider the Senate amendments.
            Another important activity in which Beveridge participated was the promulgation of the proposed
                    amendment for the direct election of Senators. He had advocated this amendment in the Senate as
                    early as 1908,71 but the proposal at that time received very little serious
                    consideration. It was now a more 
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., p. 6342.
                  
                     66 A survey of the yea and nay
                            votes taken on the proposed amendments show that Beveridge, Borah, Dolliver and LaFollette
                            voted against the "standpat" Republicans eight times; Bristow and Clapp,
                            seven times; Crawford, six times: Bourne, Cummins, Burkhart and Dixon, five times; and
                            Brown, three times. Eleven votes were taken.
                  
                     67
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 7375. For a brief survey of the bill
                            and the changes made by it see LaFollette's survey, p. 7373.
                  
                     68
                            Cong. Record, 61 Cong., 3 Sess., p. 1709.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., p. 4286.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., p. 4337.
                  
                     71
                            Cong. Record, 60 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 6806.
               
                     pertinent question, because several States had passed
                    resolutions asking Congress to submit such an amendment for ratification. On February 10, 1911,
                    Beveridge severely criticised Senator Root, who had just made a speech against the amendment, for
                    his conservatism and his distrust of the popular will, and ably defended the amendment as well as
                    the character and intelligence of the American people.72 In direct opposition to
                    Root he declared: "I have no greater reverence for anything on earth than I have for the
                    intelligence and conscience of the combined millions that make up the American people
                        themselves."73 The resolution was lost because the required
                    two-thirds vote was not obtainable. Fifty-four Senators voted for and thirty-three against the
                    proposed amendment.74
            
            In the Congressional elections of 1910, the Democrats won a large majority in the House in spite of
                    the able work of Roosevelt, Pinchot, Beveridge, and others during the campaign.75 Dissatisfaction with the tariff of 1909, the increase in the cost of living, and the
                    disorganization of the Republican party were largely responsible for Republican defeats. Republicans
                    lost their majority in the State Legislature of Indiana, and Senator Beveridge was succeeded by John
                    W. Kern in 1911. Beveridge had worked hard for the success of the party during the campaign. He did
                    not have much to say in regard to the results of the election. He only gave out this brief,
                    characteristic statement: "Fortunes of war; it is all right; twelve years of hard work;
                    clean record; I am content."76
            
            Throughout his entire political career Beveridge was an enthusiastic political leader, but he was
                    never regarded as an entirely certain party man. He was a Republican, yet he did not believe
                    implicity in the sanctity of all Republican doctrines. He was a greater admirer of certain leaders
                    within the party than he was of the party itself. Roosevelt was especially admired, and, in turn
                    Roosevelt thought a great deal of Beveridge. Roosevelt was once asked why he entertained such high
                    regard for Beveridge. This was his answer: "He never annoys 
                  
                     72
                            Cong. Record, 60 Cong., 3 Sess., pp. 2251-2259.
                  
                     73
                            Ibid., p. 2258.
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., p. 3634.
                  
                     75 Beveridge in a speech to the Republican State Convention on April
                            5, 1910, clearly and boldly stated why he opposed the Payne-Aldrich tariff. The keynote of
                            his action was that he was striving for right and justice in the tariff rates. He
                            antagonised the interests by many of his actions in the Senate and they, no doubt, played a
                            large part in the Republican defeat of 1910, in Indiana. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 5, 1910.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, November 12, 1910.
               
                     me with small politics. His mind is devoted entirely to great
                    public questions."77 His freedom from petty politics was made possible,
                    in a way, because of the facts connected with his election to the Senate. He was elected to that
                    body as a result of the efforts of his friends. They were, of course, within the party, but they
                    were not the recognized leaders of the Republicans of Indiana at that time. Since the "old
                    line" Republicans were not directly responsible for his election he therefore felt that he
                    had few party obligations to fulfill. Consequently, he did not have to bother with petty politics
                    nor worry about limiting his actions or making them conform to strictly party principles. He was
                    thus relatively free to exert his efforts in order to secure legislation which would benefit the
                    whole nation and which would further the general welfare of the people. This was his chief motive,
                    for he had a greater respect for and more faith in the people than he had in the Republican party as
                    an organization.
            Beveridge was an ambitious man as well as a politician. He had ability and an unlimited amount of
                    perseverance and industry. He was far above the average in his intellectual capacity; and he desired
                    above all things, to be intellectually free, and to be able to act at all times according to the
                    dictates of his own judgment and conscience. In accordance with this-principle he refused to accept
                    any large campaign contributions from large business concerns; and because he did not, he was
                    independent of them. In this respect he was "above board", and cannot be
                    criticised adversely on the grounds of monetary infuences guiding his actions.
            He was a man who was courageous; one who stood for his convictions and advocated them without fear of
                    consequences. For this, he was greatly admired. Senator Mark Hanna was captivated by Beveridge when
                    he made his first set speech in the Senate. Soon thereafter, the great boss approached Beveridge and
                    asked him to make a speech in favor of his ship subsidy bill. When Beveridge told him that he had
                    not even read the bill and, therefore, was not ready to answer him, Hanna insisted that he promise
                    to speak for it. To this the young Senator from Indiana replied: 
                        I will not make that speech for you; I will not even pledge to vote for the bill, but I will
                            agree to this; if you will send to my room everything 
                        
                           77 Noel, Addresses, p. 16.
                     
                             that has been written and printed in 
                                England
                             and 
                                Germany
                             on the question of ship subsidies, I will give thirty days of honest study to
                            the question, and at the end of that time will tell you what I will do.78
                  
                    
            
            Senator Hanna sent him two stacks of books as high as a table. Beveridge studied the question
                    thoroughly, and as a result, he did not make a speech for the bill neither did he vote for it.
                    Nevertheless, he won the respect of Senator Hanna, who ever after considered him as one of his
                    special friends. When Hanna was asked by H. H. Kohlsaat why he thought so much of Beveridge as to
                    give him a standing invitation to his Sunday morning breakfasts, while others had to be specially
                    invited, he replied: "Beveridge always rings true. He is either for you or against you. You
                    never have to look under the table to find out where Beveridge stands on any important
                        question."79
            
            Beveridge was progressive because of his independent spirit and because of his intimacy with other
                    "Progressives" and with Roosevelt.80 In fact he was so
                    progressive that many people considered him more a theorist than a constructive politician. Yet,
                    this is not true, for in reviewing his work it is surprising to note how many of the things he
                    advocated early that were finally enacted by Congress. In this respect, he was far in advance of his
                    party.
            Beveridge is to be admired most, perhaps, for the earnestness, industry and perseverance with which
                    he entered into the duties and the work open to a Senator. He is above all to be greatly admired for
                    his independence. He stood on his own two feet, for the most part, doing, voting, and advocating
                    what he, in his own judgment, thought best.
            
               
                  78 Shaffer, in Addresses, pp. 25-26.
               
                  79 Shaffer, in Addresses, p. 26.
               
                  80 Whenever Roosevelt was criticised in the Senate, Beveridge was always
                        eager to defend him. He also ardently advocated and defended the measures which Roosevelt
                        recommended. One of the best examples of this is his advocacy and defense of
                        Roosevelt's naval program on April 2d to 28. 1908.
            
         
         
         
            The Wabash and Erie Canal in 
                        Wabash County
                    
            
            By Mrs. LEOLA HOCKETT
            
            During the session of 1823-24, Congress passed an act authorizing the state of Indiana to
                    "Survey and mark through the public lands of the 
                        United States
                    , the route of a canal by which to connect the navigation of the
                    Wabash and Miami rivers and Lake
                    Erie." The act provided that, "ninety feet of land on each side of the
                    canal" should be "reserved for sale on the part of the 
                        United States
                    ," and that the use thereof should "forever be vested in the state
                    aforesaid, for a canal and for no other purpose whatever."
            In 1827, another act was passed granting "to the State of Indiana for the purpose of aiding
                    the said State in opening a canal to unite, at navigable points, the waters of the Wabash
                        river with those of Lake Erie, a quantity of land equal to one
                    half of five sections in width on each side of the canal, and reserving each alternate section to
                    the 
                        United States
                     to be selected by the Commissioner of the Land Office, under the direction of the
                    President of the 
                        United States
                    , from one side thereof to the other," the said lands to be "subject
                    to the disposal of the Legislature of said state, for the purpose aforesaid and no other.
                    "The work was to be commenced within five years and finished within twenty years.
            The action of Congress was approved by the Legislature of Indiana on January 5, 1828. A Board of
                    Commissioners was appointed, composed of Samuel Hanna of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , David Burr of 
                        Jackson county
                     (later one of the founders of the town of 
                        Wabash
                    ), and Robert John of 
                        Franklin county
                    .
            To make the appropriation of land available, work must be commenced before March 2, 1832. The
                    committee appointed by Judge Hanna to select the time and place for the first excavations chose a
                    spot on the 
                        St. Joseph
                     feeder line at Ft. 
                    
                        Wayne
                    . On the 22nd of February, 1832, friends of the canal repaired to that place for the
                    event. Hugh Hanna (another of the founders of 
                        Wabash
                    ) was the Marshal of the day.
            The proceedings are described by the 
                  
                            Cass County
                         Times of March 2, 1832: 
                        The procession having been formed agreeably to order, at the John's Hotel, proceeded
                            across the St. Mary's river to the point selected when a
                            circle was formed, in which the commissioners and Orator of the day took their stand.
                            Charles W. Ewing, Esq., then arose, and in his usual happy, eloquent manner, delivered an
                            appropriate address which was received with acclamation. F. Virgus, Esq., one of the canal
                            commissioners, and the only one present, addressed the company, explained the reason why his
                            colleagues were absent, adverted to the difficulties and embarrassments which the friends of
                            the canal had encountered and overcome, noticed the importance of the work and the
                            advantages that would ultimately be realized and then concluded by saying, "I am
                            now about to commence the Wabash and Erie Canal, in the name and by the authority of the
                            state of Indiana." Having thus said, he struck the long suspended
                            blow, and broke the ground while the company hailed the event with three cheers.
                        Judge Hanna and Capt. Murray, two of the able and consistent advocates of the canal in the
                            councils of the state, next approached and excavated the earth and then commenced an
                            indiscriminate cutting and digging.
                        The procession then marched back to town, as they had marched to the place, in the following
                            order—
                        
                     Canal Commissioners and Orator,
                     President and Secretary of the Meeting,
                     National Flag,
                     Committee on Arrangements,
                     Visitors and strangers,
                     Citizens generally.
                  
                        Then they dispersed in good order.
                    
            
            The line through the county was surveyed in 1833 under the supervision of Jesse Williams of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , one of whose assistants was Stearns Fisher of 
                        Wabash County
                    . Contracts for the construction of the canal were let at Treaty Grounds, now 
                        Wabash
                    , on May 4, 1834, in sections of thirty to sixty chains in length. In the archives of
                    the 
                        Wabash County
                     Historical Society are the records, kept by Mr. Fisher, of the work on sections
                    eighty-nine to one hundred twenty-two, inclusive, which comprise that part of the canal from 
                        Wabash
                     to 
                        Peru
                    . Contracts were let in the western part of 
                        Wabash County
                     to Myers & Jones, S. & H. Hanna, P. & J. Burke, Thomas Hayes,
                    James Ferrell, James McAvoy, Adam Young, Turner & Kuntz,  David Cassatt, W. T. Mallack & Co., and William Little & Sons. Work in the
                    eastern part of the county was superintended by David Burr.
            Just a month before the contracts were let at Treaty Grounds, Hugh Hanna and David Burr laid out the
                    town of 
                        Wabash
                    . This place consisted of nothing except the ten or twelve' cabins that had
                    been built for the negotiators of the treaty of 1826 and the few families who occupied them when
                    work on the canal was begun there.
            The county was an almost unbroken wilderness and the construction of the canal included the cutting
                    of timber, grubbing out stumps and brush, making roads, building bridges over streams, quarrying
                    stones, and building dams, culverts and feeders. The first date in the records is November 3, 1834.
                    The final settlement with most of the contractors was made on November 18, 1835.
            Section eighty-nine, which was 60.49 chains in length, and included the lock at 
                        Wabash
                    , was the work of Myers & Jones. The following is the final report on that
                    section:
            
               
                  Grubbing and clearing
                  60.49
                  cubic yds.
                  @
                  $10.00
                  $ 604.90
               
               
                  Excavating earth
                  25,708
                  cubic yds.
                  @
                  .11 1/2
                  2,956.42
               
               
                  Excavating rock
                  1,354
                  cubic yds.
                  @
                  .64
                  866.56
               
               
                  Excavating lock pit
                  823
                  cubic yds.
                  @
                  .20
                  184.60
               
               
                  Excavating rock pit
                  999
                  cubic yds.
                  @
                  .64
                  639.36
               
               
                  Full embankment
                  2,340
                  cubic yds.
                  @
                  .13
                  304.20
               
               
                  Puddle
                  371
                  cubic yds.
                  @
                  .25
                  92.75
               
               
                  Timber
                  1,179
                  cubic yds.
                  @
                  .06
                  70.74
               
               
                  2 in. plank
                  1,885
                  cubic yds.
                  @
                  .06
                  113.10
               
               
                  Locks, gates and sills
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  550.00
               
               
                  Cut stone masonry
                  1,669
                  .27 per.
                  @
                  9.00
                  15,023.43
               
               
                  Iron
                  600
                  lbs.
                  @
                  .14
                  84.00
               
               
                  Protection
                  190
                  per.
                  @
                  1.00
                  190.00
               
               
                  Upright timbers
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  48.00
               
               
                  Excavating detached rock
                  10
                  yds.
                  @
                  .40
                  4.00
               
               
                  Snubbing posts and fender posts
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  20.00
               
               
                  Building and removing dam and taking drift
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Making new quoin post [word illegible] from canal, etc
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  53.00
               
               
                  By change of plan
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  12.00
               
               
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  $22,226.38
               
            
            Contractors were paid eleven, eleven and a half and twelve cents per cubic yard for excavating earth
                    under ordinary conditions, thirteen and fourteen for embankments and sixteen and twenty cents for
                    lock excavations.
            
            The sale of the land granted by Congress furnished the money with which to construct the canal. In
                    the 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Galette of August 21, 1850, was this notice: "Hon. John L. Wright,
                    Clerk of the Land Office at 
                        Logansport
                    , will be at La-Gro on the 4th of September and at this place on the 5th for the purpose
                    of receiving interest due on canal lands."
            From 
                        Wabash
                     eastward for fifty miles, the work was done by Irish laborers who came from the East.
                    They were divided into two clans, the "Corkonians" and the
                    "Fardowns". It seems that some sort of a feud had existed between them and that
                    they brought their animosities with them when they came. Each side would beat unmercifully any
                    member of the other side who was caught alone. Each side was so terrorized by the other, that on the
                    least provocation, they would leave their work and take to the woods or march, armed, to any
                    supposed point of danger. David Burr, when reporting the trouble to Governor Noah Noble, said that
                    there were six hundred armed Irishmen and that he was compelled to send to 
                        Logansport
                     for the militia. With the help of the militia from that town, 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     and 
                        Huntington
                    , the sheriffs of 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Huntington counties
                    , two lawyers and a judge, the "Irish Riot" was quelled and eight of
                    the ringleaders convicted and sent to prison. 
                        Wabash County
                     had just been organized and was unable to bear expense occasioned by the disorders. The
                    Legislature appropriated the money needed.
            The canal was completed through 
                        Wabash County
                     in 1836, and waited for ten months for water. The bottom of the canal was almost as
                    level as a floor, and was at times used for a race track until the water was turned in. When the
                    work was finished the town of 
                        Wabash
                     was almost depopulated, as it was then composed mostly of canal laborers.
            In the spring of 1837, the announcement was made that water would be turned into the canal from the
                    feeder at La-Gro. When the day came a crowd had gathered to witness the operation. There was a great
                    burst of enthusiasm as the water began to pour into the bed of the big ditch and move slowly down
                    the almost imperceptible incline towards 
                        Wabash
                    . The crowd followed it in a body until the town was reached. In a short time, the water
                    was deep enough to float a boat but it was nearly three weeks before any were running.
            It has been erroneously stated that the 
                  
                            Prairie
                         Hen and the Indiana were the first boats to brave the raging
                    waters of the 
                    
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                     Canal into the town of 
                        Wabash
                    , but to the Davy Crockett belongs that distinction. The Davy Crockett was manufactured in 
                        Wabash
                     from a large maple sap trough owned by David Cassatt. With Col. Hanna, William Steele,
                    and Mr. Cassatt as captain, crew and passengers, this rude boat made the trip to LaGro and return.
                    Mr. Cassatt's old horse, hitched to the craft with a grape vine, furnished the motive
                    power.
            The freight boat Indiana was scheduled to be the first actual boat to arrive in 
                        Wabash
                    . The great event was to take place on July 4, 1837. Somewhere between 
                        Wabash
                     and LaGro, an old packet boat, the Prarie Hen, of the 
                        Ohio
                     Canal, passed the Indiana and reached 
                        Wabash
                     first. It had on board about a hundred passengers, half of whom were Indians who had
                    availed themselves of the opportunity to take a free ride, and incidentally, to partake of the
                    "fire-water" that was part of the cargo.
            The Indiana, commanded by Captain Columbia, was newly painted and the wonderful
                    boat must have dazzled the spectators when it reached the landing at 
                        Wabash
                     and Canal streets. Here the residents of the little village with Chief Al-lo-lah and
                    his braves from their village across the river had gathered to welcome it. The visitors were saluted
                    with a volley of musketry and no doubt the crowd yelled itself hoarse. On board were a number of the
                    early settlers of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     and 
                        Huntington
                     and the German Band of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    . If the recollections of those who attended the big celebration can be relied on, the
                    music made by the Wooden Band was anything but euphonious.
            A procession was formed and the company marched to Treaty Grounds where a sumptuous dinner was
                    served, after which came speeches and a general good time. Elijah Hackle-man, a 
                        Wabash County
                     pioneer was one of the orators of the day. He had written his speech and, on the day
                    preceding the great event, went into the woods to rehearse it. While engaged in this laudable
                    activity, he came upon a nest of rattlesnakes. Nevertheless, he was able to deliver the speech the
                    next day. The festivities closed with a big dance on the second floor of the only brick business
                    house in the village. Early on the morning of July 5, the Indiana started on the
                    return trip to 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    .
            In 1846, a daily line of packet boats was established from 
                        Lafayette
                     to 
                        Toledo
                     by Doyle & Dickey of 
                  Dayton,
                            Ohio
               . This  is said to have been the first public conveyance established in 
                        Wabash County
                    . No account can be found of any regular line of stage coaches.
            In 1851, Hull's line of freight boats was in operation, and, in 1852, this notice appeared
                    in the 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Weekly Gazette: "The proprietorship of the 
                        Toledo
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     packets has passed into the hands of Messrs Petree & Co., who have had the
                    boats thoroughly refitted and repaired. Captains Mahon, Davis and Dale. Regular daily trips both up
                    and down."
            The packet boats were fitted up expressly for passenger service. Sleeping apartments and dining
                    accommodations were provided on board. As the motion of the boat was steady and smooth, making the,
                    then considered, extremely rapid rate of eighty miles in twenty four hours, it was thought by many
                    that perfection in the way of traveling had been reached.
            From the following, taken from the 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Gazette of May 14,1851, after the editor, John L. Knight, had traveled on the
                    Packet boat Indiana, one would infer that a clean boat and courteous treatment by
                    captain and hands was a most unusual thing: 
                        Capt. J. H. Fountain's boat, Indiana, is orderly, neat and
                            everything clean. The hands about the boat were quiet, pleasant, and in a great measure
                            free, at least in the hearing of the passengers, from that profaneness in which the hands of
                            many of the boats indulge, to the excessive annoyance of a large portion of the traveling
                            public.
                        The passengers were so pleased with their treatment that they wrote this commendation, signed
                            by all the passengers, and presented it to the Captain, but we felt that the Captain was
                            entitled to special commendation for his conduct and qualities as the Master of one of our
                            Packets, so we solicited a copy which we give here. "We the undersigned passengers
                            on board the canal Packet Indiana, take great pleasure in com mending to the traveling
                            public, this boat, as one of the first on the canal for the neatness and order of its table,
                            the respectful bearing of its hands and the gentlemanly and obliging demeanor of its Master,
                            Capt. 
                                Fountain
                            , who has won to himself the esteem of all who have been so fortunate as to fall
                            into his care."
                    Twenty-one names were signed to this testimonial.
            About the tenth of November of each year, boats were compelled to "lay up" for the
                    winter. They usually began running again about the first of March. Sometimes when the ice was late
                    in "breaking up", the season began a month later. Merchants  ordered enough supplies to last during the winter, and grain was
                    shipped eastward before cold weather.
            It was customary for the boat men to winter somewhere along the line. During the winter of 1845-46,
                    at his home four miles west of 
                        Wabash
                    , Stearns Fisher cared for two men and more than forty horses and mules. The boat hands
                    were considered a rough set. The value of the service of a mule driver seemed to be determined by
                    his ability to "cuss" and beat the mules that drew the heavy loads over the
                    surface of the canal.
            Often a boat, loaded with supplies, wintered in some town along the line. A newspaper of Dec. 10.
                    1849, contained this notice: "The trading boat Harriet, has a full supply of groceries such
                    as coffee, teas, sugar etc. Now lying at 
                        Wabash
                     where she will remain during the closing of the canal. Country merchants can have a
                    full supply on reasonable terms by calling soon. Thomas Gilpin & Co."
            In 1852, the following advertisement appeared, which shows that some of the boats were owned by local
                    people: "Canal Boat For Sale. The undersigned wishes to sell his Canal Boat Emperor and the
                    furniture belonging to it. Said boat is now lying at 
                        Wabash
                    , is in good repair and is well known on the line as one of the strongest and best made
                    boats on the 
                        Wabash
                     trade." This notice was signed by Thomas Mc-Kibben. The market value of boats,
                    of course, greatly varied. A news item indicates that the City of 
                            Alton
                        
                was sold for $1,400.
            Each boat had a name. Some were: The Lady Ellen, City of 
                            Alton
                        , Other Three, Superior, Metropolis, Caspian, Mc-Carty, 
                            Australia
                        , Jim Britton, Bill Ditton, Homer, Smith Grant, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , The Red Bird (painted bright red), and The Commit. The
                    spelling of the latter name was the occasion of some rather caustic humor by the 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Gazette. An editor thus vented his saracasm concerning one boat: "The
                    Superior is the name of the most inferior looking boat on the canal. It is drawn by two of the most
                    dilapidated, jaded, ruined horses mortal man ever set eyes upon. Given a fair opportunity, they
                    would gladly have drowned themselves."
            The construction of the canal caused a complete revolution in the prices of farm products. The
                    people, having had no market for their grain, had been unable to obtain its value in a little
                    obscure village. Wheat was fifty and sixty cents a bushel, 
                    potatoes ten and fifteen. When the farmer took merchandise in exchange for his grain, he was allowed
                    a slight advance over these prices. Immediately after the completion of the canal, wheat went to
                    $1.25 a bushel, and other things advanced in proportion.
            Prices paid in 
                        Wabash
                     for grain were higher than else where and it was brought there from 
                  Delaware, Madison
               , Howard, Kosciuski, 
                  Whitley, Fulton
                and 
                        Blackford counties
                    . It is said that from 500,000 to 1,000,000 bushels were shipped each season from the
                    town of 
                        Wabash
                    . There were several pork packing establishments in 
                        Wabash
                     and in LaGro and pork was shipped from these towns to 
                        New York
                    .
            In 1848, there were nine ware-houses in 
                        Wabash
                     and it was nothing unusual for wagons, loaded with grain, to line both sides of the
                    road to the river, while the streets, in all directions, would be lined with wagons waiting their
                    turns to un load. Sometimes when the boats were late farmers were compelled to dump their grain by
                    the side of the road until the ware-houses could take care of it.
            With the completion of the 
                        Toledo
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     Railroad in 1856, business on the canal began to decline. Soon the packet boat became a
                    thing of the past. The canal company began building additional ware-houses along the line to better
                    enable the canal boats to compete with the Railroad. Meetings were held in the local Court Houses at
                    which were discussed ways and means for reviving business and measures were introduced in the
                    Legislature that were designed "to insure the permanency of the canal." Stearns
                    Fisher, Robert Cissna and a Mr. Washburn were sent from 
                        Wabash
                     as delegates to a convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . William Sweetzer, William Steele and T. S. Johnson made up a local committee to
                    prepare a "memorial" to be sent to the Legislature. J. D. Conner, who represented 
                        Wabash County
                     in the General Assembly was an untiring worker in the interest of the Canal. Besides
                    the competition of the Railroad, floods often interfered with navigation. At one time, traffic was
                    stopped for ninety days as a result of high waters.
            The amount of business done by the Wabash and Erie Canal in its better days, must have been enormous.
                    In 1848, there was shipped from 
                        Wabash
                     12,102 bu. corn; 78,410 bu. wheat; and 904 bbls. pork. LaGro shipped 9,445 bu. corn;
                    83,937 bu. wheat; and 1,461 bbls. pork. In 1860, four boats, 
                    loaded with 10,000 bushels of corn, and one loaded with wheat, left 
                        Wabash
                     for 
                        Toledo
                     in one week. In the spring of 1870, a raft of logs worth $10,000 was sent to
                    the East from 
                        Wabash
                    . Henry Sayre was the collector at 
                        Wabash
                    , with his office in the Woolen Mills on the Canal.
            Shipments during the season of 1870 included:
            
               
                  85,000
                  bu. wheat
               
               
                  10,030
                  bu. corn
               
               
                  8,160
                  bu. oats
               
               
                  240,652
                  ft. lumber
               
               
                  413
                  bu. clover seed
               
               
                  979
                  cu. ft. timber
               
               
                  8,625
                  per. stone
               
               
                  380
                  cords wood
               
               
                  Total receipts from tolls at 
                                Wabash
                             $7,924
               
            
            During the season of 1871 there was shipped:
            
               
                  117,000
                  bu. wheat
               
               
                  68,849
                  bu. corn
               
               
                  24,100
                  bu. oats
               
               
                  675
                  bu. clover seed
               
               
                  2,200
                  bu. flax seed
               
               
                  447,098
                  ft. lumber
               
               
                  Local tolls
                  $ 213.17
               
               
                  Eastern tolls
                  13,743.71
               
               
                  Western tolls
                  352.20
               
               
                  Total
                  $14,309.08
               
            
            In 1862 a steam canal boat, built at 
                        Lafayette
                    , passed through 
                        Wabash County
                    . It had a second boat in tow and both were heavily loaded. It made the trip to 
                        Toledo
                     and re turned in six days. The venture proved such a boat to be impracticable because
                    the churning of the water damaged the banks of the canal.
            There were at least six locks in 
                        Wabash County
                    . One was located five miles west of 
                        Wabash
                    ; one at 
                        Wabash
                    ; two at La-Gro; one a mile and another a mile and a half east of LaGro. Most of the
                    stone work of the west lock is still standing. It is about a hundred feet long and ten or more feet
                    high. Bits of the others can still be seen. The large stones used in the construction of the locks
                    came from quarries along the river in 
                        Wabash County
                    . The lime for the mortar used to lay the  stones in
                    the locks between 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     and 
                        Lafayette
                     was burned in a crude kiln on the farm of David Watkins at LaGro.
            Business on the Canal was practically abandoned in the early seventies. In 1875, Henry Stevens of
                    LaGro was buying grain. He was shipping on railway cars as well as on canal boats. Another buyer
                    leased the elevator owned by the Rail road at the town, and the railroad management sought to
                    protect him in his monopoly of the grain trade by a discriminating charge of several cents a bushel
                    for loading cars through the elevator. The charge was also imposed on grain loaded direct from
                    wagons, and as Stevens had nothing except a small ware house on the Canal, he was virtually put out
                    of business. The Railroad refused to set cars for him unless he paid the charges. He had contracted
                    for the delivery of a considerable amount of grain which was coming in rapidly. David Watkins, an
                    ex-Captain on the Canal, had a boat that was rotting in the Canal a mile west of LaGro. Stevens
                    proposed to Watkins that he raise the boat and haul the grain to 
                        Wabash
                     to be shipped on the C. W. & M. R. R. and offered Watkins and two helpers each
                    five dollars a day for the season. In two days the boat was raised, overhauled and at LaGro being
                    loaded with wheat. It made the trip to 
                        Wabash
                     once each day carrying two car-loads of grain per trip. When the season was over Capt.
                    Watkins ran his boat back and grounded it again, and so ended transportation on the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                     Canal in 
                        Wabash County
                    . In March, 1876, the Canal was sold at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , that part through 
                        Wabash County
                     bringing $505.
            Water in the Canal was used by mills and factories and for years was the only source of supply for
                    fire fighting. In 1877, the people who bought the Canal demanded rent for the water. In 
                        Wabash
                     the Lock Mills Company was assessed $450, the Oil Mill, the Woolen Mills,
                    and the Railway Shops, each $50. All other mills and factories, each $25. The
                    owners of the mills and factories became very indignant because of these demands. Whether the Canal
                    owners succeeded in collecting, it has not been possible to learn.
            In 1880, the 
                        United States
                     Government surveyed a route along the old ditch, for what was expected to be a
                    wonderful ship canal. In 1884, a Hydraulic Co. was organized with the purpose of utilizing the water
                    of the Canal for factories and mills but the venture proved to be a dream only.
            
            In some places through 
                        Wabash County
                    , the bed of the canal has been almost entirely effaced. The tracks of the Electric
                    Railway were laid on the tow-path. The stone lock in 
                        Wabash
                     has been used as the foundation of a business building. One of the gates of this lock
                    occupies a prominent place in the 
                        Wabash County
                     Museum.
         
         
         
            Documents
            CIVIL WAR DIARY OF SERGEANT JAMES LOUIS MATTHEWS
            Edited by ROGER C. HACKETT
            
            James Louis Matthews was born near 
                  Newburgh, Indiana
               , December 21,1839. He died at the home of a son in
                    that place on October 6,1924, in his eighty-fifth year. On April 14,1861, the day of the surrender
                    of Fort 
                        Sumter
                    , he was married to Harriet A. Wells. A child was born to the couple in 1862, but
                    nevertheless Matthews was called to the colors late in 1864. From data supplied by his descendants
                    it appears that he served in Company "F", 12th Indiana Infantry, but, as his diary
                    informs us, about a month before he was mustered out, he be came a member of Company
                    "E" of the 59th Indiana Regiment, Captain William Whittaker commanding.
            Sergeant Matthews entered the service late in the conflict and his diary is made up to a considerable
                    degree of brief, formal entries. On the whole it is interesting as illustrating the great distances
                    covered by various divisions of the Union forces during the last months of the war. The reader
                    should follow the skeleton story here furnished with good maps be fore him.
            The diary is contained in a small leather covered notebook. The first entries were made in pencil but
                    these were later copied in ink and thereafter ink was used exclusively. The writing, not any too
                    legible originally, is now in several places all but undecipherable because of the chemical changes
                    wrought by time in paper and ink. Some of the penciled entries are so smudged that it would be
                    impossible to read them were it not for the re-copying in ink. The blank leaves in the rear of the
                    diary were used for a considerable time after the war to keep the financial records of the farm
                    sales and purchases and this  continued use doubtless has been
                    partly responsible for the difficulty in deciphering the war record.
            There is internal evidence that the diary was not kept religiously day by day but that entries
                    covering several days were sometimes made at one time.
            Inserted in the diary is a folded sheet of paper inscribed "Company Roll,
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               ". It contains the names of fifty-two privates and
                    eight non-commissioned officers, written in ink. They are as follows: Orderly Sergeant James Louis
                    Matthews; First Duty Sergeant, John Daily; Second Sergeant, Benjamin S. Duncan; Third Sergeant,
                    Andrew Z. Scales; First Corporal, Michel Cahil; Second Corporal, Francis S. Macy; Third Corporal,
                    Samuel Z. Blackburn; and Fourth Corporal, George W. Murphy. Privates: Eli W. Buntain, G. J. Baker,
                    S. Blackburn, William Brusend, E. Chambers, A. Conklin, S. W. Cleland, O. F. Cover, R. Dildine, W.
                    F. Davis, George Dersine, A. Dehuff, Joseph Dimitt, George Daffron, C. W. Deforest, William
                    Eakesright, William H. Fields, John Fritzinger, D. H. Graham, William Haiflick, W. Hetine, Peter
                    Henline, F. W. House, E. Hudson, W. A. Hughes, J. Jameson, J. Kester, C. Kingsberry, H. Knavel, E.
                    Lance, W. Leach, J. G. Lenn, H. R. Linthicum, F. Macy, James Mires, J. G. Miller, W. Mitchell, G. W.
                    Murphy, James Norwood, W. Rank, M. Raw, J. Spade, A. Stoltz, S. Stowe, A. Walker, J. W. Wilder, and
                    W. B. Wood. The above forty-nine names are alphabetized by the initial letters. The last three names
                    on the list—Thomas Harbine, M. Cahill, and Samuel Golden—evidently are the
                    names of men who were not present when the original roll was made out.
            It will be noted that the names of the four corporals also appear in the list of the privates,
                    provided we assume that "M" stands for "Michel",
                    "F" for "Francis S.", "S" for Samuel
                    Z.", and "G. W." for "George W." There would seem to be
                    no good reason for this double listing.
            Very probably some of the names—e.g., "Dildine,"
                    "Haiflick," and "Mires"—are incorrectly spelled,
                    although it should be noted that the author's spelling steadily improved through out the
                    diary.
            The company thus consisted of fifty-six men at the time the roll was made out which must have been
                    between the 4th and 17th of June, 1865, which dates mark the limits of the author's stay in 
                        Louisville
                     after he had been made a sergeant.
            
            [THE DIARY]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dec. 8. 1864 (Thursday) Reported at 
                                        Evansville
                                    . Stayed at Erman Barracks one night.
                        Dec. 9. Took the train at 9 o'clock for 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . Past through 
                                        Princeton
                                    , crossed White River, passed through Vinsains [
                                        Vincennes
                                    ], Oak Station [Oaktown], Carlile [
                                        Carlisle
                                    ], Sullivan, Moorsville,1 Farmersburgh, Terehaut [
                                        Terre Haute
                                    ], 
                              Staunton, Brazil, Greencastle
                            Junction, 
                                        Greencastle
                                     Town, and Martisville [Morrisville]. Arrived at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     10 o'clock at night.
                        Dec. 10-19. Stayed at Camp Carrington.
                        Dec. 20. To 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                     and 
                                        Louisville
                                    . [No date is entered in the diary from this time until "New
                                    Years Day."]
                        [Dec. 21-23?] Stayed a few days [in 
                                        Louisville
                                    ]. Marching orders.
                        [Dec. 24?] Stopped at 
                                        Elizabethtown
                                     [
                                        Kentucky
                                    ] all night.
                        [Dec. 25?] Next day arrived at Bolden [Bowling] Green and drew rations.
                        [Dec. 26-28?] Then on to 
                                        Tennessee
                                    . 3 nights at 
                                        Nashville
                                    .
                        [Dec. 29?] Then back to 
                                        Louisville
                                     one night.
                        [Dec. 30?] Then to 
                              Jeffersonville,
                                            Indiana
                           , next to 
                                        Columbus
                                     [Indiana], then to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     for one day and night.
                        [Dec. 31?] Arrived at 
                                        Cresline City
                                     [Crestline], 
                                        Ohio
                                    , 6 o'clock in the morning, Canton at 12. Then to state of 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    . Through 
                              Pittsburgh,
                                            Salem
                           , Columbiana,2 Hains [Haines] Valley, and Newbriton [New
                                    Brighton].
                        Jan. 1, 1865] Went through Aligany [Allegheny] Mountain tunnel.
                                    Crossed Susquehannah river, arrived at Harrisburgh. Stopped for
                                    breakfast. Passed through 
                                        Lancaster
                                     10 o'clock in the morning, New Years Day, 1865. Arrived at 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    , one o'clock. Marched 4 miles into town to dinner then marched
                                    3 miles up in town. Failed getting transportation, marched back. Put up at
                                    Soldier's Home.
                        Jan. 2. Marched to depot. Stayed till evening. Dispatch [to?] our officers in the
                                    city guard house [billets?]. Through 
                                        Bristol City
                                    . Crossed the Delaware River into Trenton. Then 
                                        New Brunswick
                                    , Rahway, Elizabeth, 
                              Newark, Jersey
                                    City
                           , and across the Hudson river into 
                                        New York City
                                    .
                        Jan. 3. Crossed 
                                        New York
                                     Bay to Governor's Island. Stayed there 2 days and nights.
                        Jan. 5. Took ship and sailed till Saturday night [January 7]. Sailed past Cape Hatris
                                    [Hatteras]. Rough sea all the time.
                        Jan 9. Arrived at Hilton Head [
                                        South Carolina
                                    ] and there we changed ships. Sailed to Seabrook [
                                        South Carolina
                                    ] and landed.
                        
                           
                              1 There seems to have been no Moorsville between Sullivan
                                        and Farmersburgh. There is a 
                                            Mooresville
                                         located between 
                                            Martinsville
                                         and 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        ., but the diarist could not have gone through this place. Traveling
                                        by rail from 
                                            Terre Haute
                                         to 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         in 1864, he could not have passed through 
                                            Martinsville
                                        , therefore "Martisville" must refer to
                                        Morrisville, a town on the railroad between 
                                            Greencastle
                                         and 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        .
                           
                              2 These towns are listed in correct order except 
                                            Pittsburgh
                                         which was reached after New Brighton. 
                                            Salem
                                         and Columbiana are in 
                                            Ohio
                                        . The explanation is that the author sometimes wrote down the names
                                        of the towns passed through from memory some days later.
                        
                        
                        Jan. 10. Took ship again to Beaufort Island [
                                        South Carolina
                                    ] where we went into camp.
                        Jan. 12. Joined our regiment on Beaufort Island near town. [Beau fort?]
                        [No entries for the next five days.]
                        Jan. 18. Marched 8 miles from town and drew guns.8
                        
                        Jan. 19. Marched 8 miles to branch river [Coosaw?] and crossed on a pontoon bridge.
                                    Then marched 3 miles to this place and went into camp.
                        Jan. 20. My first forage trip.
                        [No entry for January 21.]
                        Jan. 22, Sunday. Went nine miles from camp on a forage trip. Re turned in the evening
                                    with plenty of sweet potatoes, honey, cabbages, fowls, pork, sage, pepper, salt, and
                                    vegetables.
                        [No entries for January 23-27.]
                        Jan. 28. Marched 13 miles and went into camp.
                        [No entries for January 29-31.]
                        Febr. 1. Marched to Hickory Hill, S. C., and went into camp. 17 miles.
                        Febr. 2. Marched 8 miles.
                        Febr. 3. Marched 15 miles.
                        Febr. 4. Marched near Beaufort Bridge, 7 miles. Threw up works.
                        Febr. 5. Marched 5 miles and threw up works.
                        Febr. 6. Marched 4 miles and had a skirmish. Then marched 2 miles and went in camp.
                        Febr. 7. Marched 6 miles and destroyed 8 miles of railroad. Went in camp at Bamburgh
                                    Station. [On railroad from 
                                        Charleston
                                     to 
                                        Augusta
                                    , about half way between the two cities and almost due south of 
                                        Columbia
                                    .]
                        Febr. 8. Still in camp at Bamburgh. Tearing up and burning railroad called the 
                                        Augusta
                                     and 
                                        Charleston
                                    .
                        Febr. 9. Marched 12 miles and went in camp.
                        Febr. 10. No marching today. Destroyed some railroad and returned to camp.
                        Febr. 11. Marched 4 miles and crossed the Edisto River. Then
                                    marched 16 miles and went in camp at Poplar Springs.
                        Febr. 12. Marched 2 miles. Second division had heavy skirmishing.
                        Febr. 13. Marched 2 miles and came to the North Edisto River.
                                    Cross ed it on a pontoon bridge then marched 15 miles further and went into camp for
                                    the night.
                        Febr. 14. Marched 3 miles and came to Sand Creek. Then marched 16 miles further,
                                    threw up breastworks, and skirmished all night.
                        Febr. 15. Marched 6 miles driving the enemy before us. Then had a little engagement
                                    and drove them from their works. Then crossed the Congaree
                                        River,4 marched 2 miles and went in camp in plain
                                    view of the city of 
                                        Columbia
                                    , S. C. Cannonading all night.
                        Febr. 16. Advanced 2 miles and shelled 
                                        Columbia
                                     considerably. Then 
                              
                                 3 Apparently this means that the troops dragged the
                                            field pieces. It is inconceivable that they were not supplied with arms
                                            before this date.
                              
                                 4 Possibly Congaree Creek instead of
                                                Congaree River.
                           
                                     crossed the Saluda River
                                    on a pontoon bridge. Marched 4 miles then went into camp on the island.
                        Febr. 17. Heavy cannonading and musketry. Crossed the Congaree
                                    River on a pontoon bridge, drove the rebels for 3 1/2 miles and took
                                    possession of the city of 
                                        Columbia
                                    .
                        Febr. 18. Still holding the city and burning arsenals and other public property and
                                    destroying the 
                                        Charleston
                                     railroad.
                        Febr. 19. Still in 
                                        Columbia
                                     burning arsenals, magazines, railroads, and other public property. This
                                    is the Sabbath day.
                        Febr. 20. Stayed in the city till 3 o'clock then marched 15 miles. Got. in
                                    camp at 2 o'clock in the morning.
                        Febr. 21. Marching orders at 5 o'clock. Marched 20 miles and went in camp.
                        Febr. 22. Marched 18 miles and went in camp.
                        Febr. 23. Crossed the Wateree River on a pontoon bridge. Marched
                                    20 miles and went in camp.
                        Febr. 24. Marched 18 miles and threw up works.
                        Febr. 25. No marching.
                        Febr. 26. Marched 10 miles, past a large camp meeting ground, and went in camp. This
                                    the Sabbath day.
                        Febr. 27. In camp near the crossroads at Mrs. Guardner's store.
                        Febr. 28. Was mustered for pay. No marching today.
                        March 1. Marched one mile today. Threw up works in the rear. Camped near the
                                        Pedee River.5
                        
                        March 2. Crossed the Little Pedee River.6
                        
                        Marched 8 miles. Camped near New Market.
                        March 3. Was called up at midnight and marched all day with nothing to eat except a
                                    little corn meal bran mush. Marched 25 miles.
                        March 4. Marched 7 miles to Cheraw. The 17th corps drove out the rebels and captured
                                    27 pieces of artillery at this town. This is the Sabbath day. March 5. No marching
                                    today.
                        March 6. While at Cheraw we met with a great disaster. The explosion of a large
                                    amount of [captured] rebel shells killed 42 union, men besides the wounded. Was
                                    knocked down myself though not much hurt. Then crossed the Great Pedee
                                        River, marched 6 miles and went in camp. March 7. Marched 10 miles
                                    and went in camp.
                        March 8. Marched 2 miles to the state line, then marched 12 miles into 
                                        North Carolina
                                    . Rained all day. Went into camp on Loral [Laurel]
                                    Hill by a large church.
                        March 9. Marched 10 miles starting at 2 o'clock. Got in camp at 2 the next
                                    morning. Rained all day and night. Waded swamps knee deep.
                        March 10. Marched 10 miles. Crossed the Lumber River and went in
                                    camp. March 11. Marched 10 miles and went in camp.
                        
                           
                              5 The army was moving eastward, and, not having reached
                                        New Market, could not have been "near" the Pedee
                                            River.
                           
                              6 This is an error. The Little Pedee
                                        River is much farther east. Probably it was Lynches Creek which was
                                        crossed. This stream is west of New Market.
                        
                        
                        March 12. Marched 6 miles. Came through Rockfish. Crossed the stream, marched 8 miles
                                    further and went in camp.
                        March 13. Marched 13 miles to Fayetteville. Marched through town. Crossed the [Cape]
                                        Fear River on a pontoon bridge. One trans portation boat
                                    was there. Marched 3 miles and went in camp. While fixing our barricade was shot
                                    with a spent ball in the right waist and stomach. Slight wound.
                        March 14. No marching today. Wrote one letter to family. March 15. No marching today.
                                    Had the ague and fever.
                        March 16. Marched 8 miles, 4 miles through knee deep mud and water. Then made
                                    corduroy bridges and lifted wagons out of the mire till daylight.
                        March 17. Marched 2 miles, then 5 miles through water to the pockets, then 1/2 mile
                                    to camp. Had ague and fever.
                        March 18. Was sick. Rode in government wagon 12 miles to camp.
                        March 19. Was sick. Rode in wagon to camp, 12 miles.
                        March 20. Rode in wagon till dark, 7 miles. Troops then ordered 5 miles
                                    further—fight expected. Took my gun and marched through water knee deep.
                                    Got in camp at daybreak.
                        March 21. Marched from 6 o'clock till 12 o'clock and was then
                                    ordered to the front. First division formed in skirmish line driving the enemy back.
                                    Lay all night in skirmish pit.
                        March 22. Bentonville at daylight. Charged the rebs out of their works taking a good
                                    many prisoners. Co. "F," 12th Inf. drove them 3 miles then
                                    returned to camp. Saw 2 rebels that had been burned by fire till cooked, horrible
                                    sight. There were six dead rebs to one union man. This is what I saw.
                        March 23. Marched 12 miles and went in camp.
                        March 24. Marched 10 miles and crossed the Neuse River. Marched
                                    4 miles to camp at Golds Borough [Goldboro]. Visited the 23rd corps and saw a
                                    friend, J. A. Wells. Stayed all night with him.
                        March 25. In camp. Threw up works till night.
                        March 26. Finished our breastworks and our tenthouses. Received mail from family.
                        March 27. Still in camp. Received mail from family, sister and brother-in-law.
                                    Battalion and dress parade every day.
                        March 28. In camp.
                        March 29. In camp. Received mail from family, brother, sister, and friends.
                        March 30. In camp. Received mail from family and friends at home.
                        March 31. In camp.
                        April 1. In camp. Drew new uniform.
                        April 2, Sunday. In camp. Heard preaching today.
                        April 3-4. In camp.
                        April 5. In camp. Brother William S. Matthews of the 23rd corps came to see me.
                        April 6. In camp. Good news that Gen. Grant has taken 
                                        Richmond
                                    .
                        April 7-8. In camp.
                        April 9. On picket duty.
                        
                        April 10. Started on another campaign. Marched at 5 o'clock in the morning.
                                    Skirmished nearly all day with the enemy. Struck [pitched] tents at dark after 18
                                    miles march.
                        April 11. Some skirmishing. Crossed Little River. Marched 16 miles and struck
                                    [pitched] tents.
                        April 12. Marched 15 miles through a beautiful country. Struck [pitched] our tents on
                                    a big hill in the midst of a nice farm. Heavy cannonading heard in front.
                        April 13. Crossed the Neuse River. Camped in a nice farm after
                                    marching 19 miles. Raleigh was taken today.
                        April 14. Crossed Crabtree Creek, marched through Raleigh. Camped in the woods after
                                    making 12 miles. Nice country hereabouts.
                        April 15. In camp near Raleigh.
                        April 16. Went on picket duty on Crabtree Creek.
                        April 17. Went out foraging. Got a Baptist hymn book worth $5.
                        April 18. In camp. No marching today. Sad news that President Lincoln is killed.
                        April 19. In camp. Received mail from family.
                        April 20. Moved camp from southwest of town. Marched through town. Went in camp 2
                                    miles northeast of Raleigh.
                        April 21-22. Remained in camp.
                        April 23. Still in camp. Had brigade drill today at one o'clock.
                        April 24. Still remained in camp. Had knapsack inspection this morning at 9
                                    o'clock.
                        April 25. No marching. Received mail from family and friends.
                        April 26. Remained in camp.
                        April 27. Remained in camp. Had brigade and inspection drill. At night glorious news.
                                    Gen. Jo. Johnson surrendered his entire force to Gen. Sherman and there is great
                                    rejoicing here.
                        April 28. Remained in camp.
                        April 29. Started at 7 o'clock on our march for 
                                        Richmond
                                    , Va. Marched 2 miles and crossed Crabtree Creek on a covered bridge.
                                    Marched 7 miles and crossed Neuse River on a pontoon bridge.
                                    Marched 2 miles and went in camp, making 11 miles. Heavy cannonading all day at
                                    Raleigh for salutes.
                        April 30, Sunday. No marching. Was mustered for pay then went on picket duty.
                        May 1. Marched at 5 o'clock. Marched across the Tar
                                    River and a small creek. Went in camp having marched 26 miles.
                        May 2. Marched at 3 o'clock. Crossed Sandy Creek. Marched 10 miles and came
                                    to Shady Grove. Marched 6 miles and went in camp, making 30 miles.
                        May 3. Marched through a fine country. Some very fine houses. Came to
                                        Roanoke River and went in camp, having marched 24 miles.
                        May 4. Lay all day [waiting] for the pontoon bridge on which we crossed the
                                        Roanoke River at sundown. Marched 12 miles into 
                                        Virginia
                                    .
                        May. 5. Marched at 3 o'clock in the morning. Crossed the Meherrin
                                        River. Marched on through 
                                        Lawrenceville
                                    . Marched on till 4 o'clock when we went in camp having marched
                                    30 miles.
                        
                        May 6. Marched at 3 o'clock. Crossed the Nottoway
                                    River. Some fine country here. Crossed Stony Creek. Having marched 20
                                    miles went in camp.
                        May 7. Marched at 4 o'clock. Marched on a battle ground. Saw many skulls.
                                    Saw where a Yank had been tortured. Strong fortifications here. Went inside camp,
                                    inside the works—Lee's works. Marched 20 miles near 
                                        Petersburg
                                    .
                        May 8. Very extensive lookouts here. No marching today.
                        May 9. Marched through 
                                        Petersburg
                                     and was reviewed by Gen. Howard. A very nice city. Marched 13 miles and
                                    went in camp inside the same works. Crossed the Appomattox
                                    River at the city.
                        May 10. Marched to 
                                        Manchester
                                    , a town on this side [south] of the river [James]. Marched 9 miles on a
                                    nice turnpike road and went into camp at 10 o'clock.
                        May 11. Remained in camp. Received mail from family. Six men killed at night by
                                    lightening in camp.
                        May 12. Remained in camp.
                        May 13. Marched at 12 o'clock through 
                                        Manchester
                                     under the tune of "Get Out [of] the Wilderness."
                                    Crossed the James River on 2 pontoon bridges and on a solid
                                    bridge into 
                                        Richmond
                                    . Marched up the street to the tune of "Hail
                                    Columbia." Marched by Castal Thunder, then by Libby Prison, then around by
                                    Capitol Square by the monument of George 
                                        Washington
                                     on his horse—a glorious sight. Then marched across
                                    Chickahominy Creek. Marched into camp, having made 12 miles.
                        May 14, Sunday. Marched till 12 o'clock, making 12 miles, then went into
                                    camp.
                        May 15. Past 
                                        Hanover
                                     Court House and jail. Marched across the Pamunkey
                                    River and crossed the Matamanil River on a pontoon
                                    bridge where the old bridge was burned as [were those bridges over] the
                                        James River. 23 miles today.
                        May 16. Marched through Bolden [Bowling] Green. Marched across a nice large valley.
                                    Went into camp at Massaponty Creek [Massaponax] after having marched 25 miles.
                        May 17. Marched at 8 o'clock 5 miles to 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                    . Through the town then across the Rhapahanic [Rappahannock]
                                        River on a pontoon bridge. Then marched on over a mountainous
                                    country— over hills and hollows. Several dropped dead on the road with
                                    heat and fatigue. Then filed left in a little field. Camped on Accre [Acquia] Creek
                                    making 20 miles.
                        May 18. Marched at 4 o'clock, crossing the Quantico
                                    River. Came through the town called Dumfalls [Dumfries]. Marched across
                                    other small streams. Camped on the Occoquan near town of Occoquan. Rainy night.
                                    Marched 20 miles.
                        May 19. Marched at 4 o'clock crossing the Occoquan
                                    River on a bridge made of 13 pontoons. Marched very fast. Our company on
                                    safe guard in advance of division. Marched 2 miles and waded Pokeck Creek. Marched
                                    into the church where George 
                                        Washington
                                     was baptized. Crossed Accotink Creek and marched [through] Accotink
                                    Town. Came on 4 miles to Mt. Vernon where we saw the residence
                                    of  General George 
                                        Washington
                                     and where he was buried. Marched 4 miles and went into camp having
                                    marched 15 miles. Rainy night.
                        May 20. Remained in camp 4 miles from 
                                        Alexandria
                                    .
                        May 21. Marched through 
                                        Alexandria
                                    , tolerable nice town. Marched 2 miles north of town and went in camp on
                                    a very big hill, making 6 miles. Rainy day. Stayed in camp [on] guard. Rainy and
                                    stormy night.
                        May 22. Remained in camp. Drewsentary [sentry duty].
                        May 23. Marched 4 miles. Stopped in sight of 
                                        Georgetown
                                     at sun down. Then marched across the canal on a pontoon bridge. Marched
                                    to the Potomac and crossed it on the Long Bridge—a mile long. Marched up
                                    the streets in 
                                        Washington City
                                    . Camped on a grassy square for the night, having marched 7 miles.
                        May 24. Marched on different streets till came to the Capitol House— a
                                    large marble stone house. Marched down 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     Avenue one mile to the White House where we were reviewed by the
                                    president. Marched past George 
                                        Washington
                                    's monument. Marched on through the city 4 miles from the
                                    avenue or 5 miles from the Capitol and went in camp that distance north of 
                                        Washington
                                     having marched 6 miles.
                        May 25. Remained in camp.
                        May 26. Remained in camp. Rained all day and night. Received mail from family and
                                    friends.
                        May 27. Remained in camp. Rained half day.
                        May 28, Sunday. Remained in camp. Was to meeting. No marching. May 29. Remained in
                                    camp. In the evening Sergeant Young was shot by his messmate, Private McGill. No
                                    marching.
                        May 30. Remained in camp.
                        May 31 Near 
                                        Washington
                                    . Marched to the cars in the city. Took the train at 10
                                    o'clock. Past Elk Ridge Landing. Into the state of 
                                        Maryland
                                     at 12 o'clock. Went within 9 miles of 
                                        Baltimore
                                     then switched off on the 
                                        Baltimore
                                     & 
                                        Ohio
                                     Railroad in the evening. Crossed the Menogicy [Monocacy]
                                        River. Arrived at Harper's Ferry at 9 o'clock at
                                    night. Crossed a large beautiful bridge. Ran all night through mountains.
                        May7 1. Stopped at 7 o'clock. Hot coffee was prepared at 
                                        Cumberland
                                    , a nice little town. Came through a little town called Piedmont.8 Came through tunnel under a mountain. Still traveling through
                                    Alighainy [Allegheny] Mountains. Past through another tunnel
                                    and through a town called 
                                        Oakland
                                    . Then through a town called Cranberry Summitt.9
                                    Then through another tunnel 3/4 ths of a mile and another also 3/4 ths of a mile.
                                    Crossed a chain or suspension bridge. Crossed through an iron bridge. Crossed the
                                        Cheat River. It is now night. Ran till midnight when came
                                    to a station called Grafton. Got hot coffee and went on all night.
                        June 2. From daylight to 10 o'clock went through 6 tunnels, one a mile long,
                                    one a half mile, others not so long. Passed by a little town
                        
                                    
                              
                                 7 A palpable error for June 1.
                              
                              
                                 8 A 
                                                Baltimore
                                             & 
                                                Ohio
                                             station on the West 
                                                Virginia
                                             side of the Potomac.
                              
                                 9
                                            
                                                Oakland
                                             is very near the western boundary of 
                                                Maryland
                                            . Cranberry Summit is farther west in West 
                                                Virginia
                                            .
                           
                                     called Clarksburgh. Still in a mountainous
                                    country. Great country for pasture and milch cows. About 11 o'clock passed
                                    through three more great tunnels. Came to a town called Ellenboro. There are several
                                    places here that are sinking oil wells. At 12 o'clock we had passed 19
                                    tunnels. At one o'clock passed 3 more tunnels making 22 today. At 2
                                    o'clock arrived at Parkersburgh on the Ohio River. A
                                    nice little town. 
                                        Marietta
                                     is across the river in 
                                        Ohio
                                    .10 Took a boat named the "Tyrone"
                                    at 2 o'clock. Five boats started from this town loaded with soldiers.
                                    Started down stream, West 
                                        Virginia
                                     on our left and 
                                        Ohio
                                     on our right.
                        June 3. Passed a little town called Point Pleasant, W. Va., at the mouth of the
                                    Kanawa [Great Kanawha] River and 5 miles below passed a town
                                    called Gallipolis, 
                                        Ohio
                                    . At 12 o'clock passed a town, Kenova, at the mouth of the Big
                                    Sandy which is the [West] 
                                        Virginia
                                     and 
                                        Kentucky
                                     line. Passed 
                              Ironton
                                        City, Ohio
                           , and
                                    Greenipsburgh, [now Greenup] Ky. At 2 o'clock passed 
                              Portsmouth, Ohio
                           , just above the mouth of the Scioto
                                    River. Next 
                              Manchester,
                                            Ohio
                           , and Maysville,
                                    Ky., a nice little city. Next 
                              Ripley, Ohio
                           ,
                                    a noted place for tame grapevines. At 9 o'clock passed Sincer,11
                                    
                                        Ohio
                                    . Next town 
                              Lawrenceburg, Indiana
                           . At
                                    11 o'clock came to 
                              Cincinnati, Ohio
                           . Opposite is 
                              Covington, Kentucky
                           . Two nice cities indeed. Stopped one hour then
                                    traveled on till day.
                        June 4, Sunday. Layed out on account of fog till 8 o'clock. Passed
                                    Wellsville, Ind., a nice town, Piketon, Ky., Incasville, Ind.,12
                                    
                                        North Vernon
                                    , Ind.,13 and Cutlarsville, Ky. Next were 
                                        Madison
                                    , Ind., and 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    , Ind., 2 nice cities. Next 
                                        Louisville
                                    , Ky., a large and nice city. Was promoted to sergeant. Landed at 2
                                    o'clock in the evening. Marched 4 miles through the city and went in camp
                                    at the edge of town—on the east side of town up the river.
                        June 5-7. Remained in camp.
                        Jane 8. Remained in camp. Saw Mr. Yeaman who is blind, walk a wire backward and
                                    forward.
                        June 9-10. Remained in camp.
                        June 11, Sunday. Remained in camp with company inspection.
                        June 12. Remained in camp.
                        June 13. Went in town on pass.
                        June 14-26. Remained in camp.
                        June 27. Marched 6 miles to the 59th Indiana Regiment and was consolidated to that
                                    regiment. Assigned to Company "E." A nice camp.
                        June 28, Sunday. Remained in camp. Heard a sermon delivered by a female minister.
                        June 29. Remained in camp.
                        June 30. Was mustered for pay.
                        July 1-3. Remained in camp.
                        
                           
                              10 In point of fact it is about fifteen miles up the
                                        river.
                           
                              11 By "Sincer", the author may have
                                        meant 
                                            Cincinnati
                                        . The fact that Lawrenceburgh, Indiana is next mentioned seems to
                                        bear this out. At this point an interval probably elapsed before the entry for
                                        June 8 was completed. When the writer resumed his task, 
                                            Cincinnati
                                         was again mentioned and the time of arrival corrected.
                           
                              12 These towns (to not appear on maps of the period.
                           
                              13
                                        
                                            North Vernon
                                         is about forty miles from the River. Possibly the diarist heard
                                        this place mentioned often on the boat and was led to believe that he had passed
                                        it.
                        
                        
                        July 4. The boys were marched out to hear Gen. Sherman speak. Returned to camp.
                        July 5-16. Remained in camp.
                        July 17. Rode on cars to 
                                        Louisville
                                    , distance being 5 miles. Then crossed river on ferry boat to 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                    , Ind. At 3 o'clock took train. Arrived in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     at daybreak.
                        July 18. Men got breakfast at Soldiers Home. Marched out to camp Carrington. Signed
                                    the pay roll. Remained in camp [for a while]. I went down in town to a big dinner.
                                    Made for Soldiers Weetnes.14
                        
                        July 19-20. Remained in camp.
                        July 21. Remained in camp till 12 o'clock then was marched down in the city,
                                    following the music, to the Soldiers Home to a big reception.15
                                    Dinner made for the soldiers then marched to the Statehouse and heard speeches made
                                    by Lieutenant Governor Conrad Baker and many others. Then marched back to camp.
                        July 22. Remained in camp and was discharged and paid off at 11 o'clock.
                                    Went down in the city to the depot. Took the train at one o'clock for 
                                        Evansville
                                    , distance 190 miles. Arrived there at 10 o'clock at night.
                                    Free bus ride to the American House. There employed a teamster in a wagon to drive
                                    me to 
                                        Newburgh
                                    , distance 10 miles.
                        [July 23.] Arrived at half past 2 o'clock. Marched [sic!]
                                    2 miles and arrived home at 3 o'clock Sunday morning. All well.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            A STEAMER TRIP FROM LAFAYETTE TO LOGANSPORT IN 1334
            The following description of an attempt to navigate the 
                        Wabash
                     from 
                        Lafayette
                     to 
                        Logansport
                     in 1834 is taken from pages 141 to 143 of a little volume of reminiscences written by
                    Sanford C. Cox. The author called his narrative, Recollections of the Early Settlement
                        of the Wabash Valley. No doubt many readers of the Indiana Magazine of History are familiar with this interesting narrative, which first
                    appeared as a series of articles in the 
                  
                            Lafayette
                         Daily Courier in 1859. The next year the sketches were revised and published
                    in book form. Mr. Cox was a school teacher and frontier citizen. He passed through a great variety
                    of experiences and came to know the 
                        Wabash country
                     of Indiana well. The transportation of commodities to and from the pioneer communities
                    of the young State was a great and ever present problem. For a long time there was an intense
                    interest in the possibility of building steamboats that could be successfully used on the middle 
                        Wabash
                     and other streams of the state. The attempt described by Mr. Cox illustrates the extent
                    of the hopes of river towns like 
                  
                     14 Probably meant to write "weekness", meaning
                            "weakness". No doubt the soldiers had a weakness for good dinners.
                  
                     15 The fourth anniversary of the Battle of Bull Run.
               
                    
                    
                        Logansport
                    , and the handicaps that had to be overcome. The day of railroads was not distant but
                    people could not realize this in 1834, and it was with much anguish of spirit that men saw the
                    steamboat lose in the battle with shallow water, snags and sand-bars in the 
                        Wabash
                     and lesser rivers.
            [SANFORD'S NARRATIVE]
            During the June freshet in 1834, a little steamer, called the Republican, advertised that she would
                    leave the wharf at 
                        Lafayette
                     for 
                        Logansport
                     on a given day. A few of us concluded to take a pleasure trip on the Republican, and be
                    of the pioneer steamboat [passengers] that would land at 
                        Logansport
                    , a thriving town situated at the confluence of the Wabash and
                        Eel rivers, in the heart of a beautiful and fertile region of country. At
                    the hour appointed the Republican left the landing at 
                        Lafayette
                    , under a good head of steam, and "walked the waters like a thing of
                    life." We soon passed Cedar Bluffs, Davis' Ferry, the Mouths of Wild Cat and
                    Tippecanoe, and begun to anticipate a quick and successful trip. But soon after passing the 
                        Delphi
                     landing, the boat stuck fast upon a sand-bar, which detained us for several hours.
                    Another and another obstruction was met with every few miles, which were overcome with much
                    difficulty, labor, and delay. At each successive sand-bar the most of the boat's crew, and
                    many of the passengers got out into the water and lifted at the boat, or pulled upon a large rope
                    that was extended to the shore—an important auxiliary to steam power to propel the vessel
                    over these obstructions. Night overtook us stuck fast upon the bottom of the river below 
                        Tipton
                    's port.
            "Tired nature's sweet restorer—balmy sleep," re-invigorated all
                    hands for the labors of the following day, which was spent in a similar manner to the afternoon of
                    the day before, in lifting in the water and pulling at the capstan. At length we arrived at 
                        Georgetown
                     Rapids, about seven miles below 
                        Logansport
                    , which we was [sic] informed was the only shoal water we would have
                    before reaching our destination.
            Here extraordinary efforts were made to ascend the Rapids. Col. Pollard and Job B. Eldridge, Esq., of 
                        Logansport
                    , who had goods on board and were both laboring in the water and at the capstan, were
                    particularly anxious that Captain Towe should reach that place, and his boat have the honor and
                    advantage of being the first steamer that had ascended as high as that point, and receive a bonus of
                    several hundred dollars, that had been offered as a premium to the captain of the first steamer that
                    should land at their wharf.
            Several days and nights were spent in fruitless attempts to get over the rapids. All hands, except
                    the women, and a few others, were frequently in the water up to their chins, for hours together
                    endeavoring to lift the boat off the bar. The water fell rapidly, and prevented the boat from either
                    ascending further up, or returning down the river. While at this place we were visited by several
                    companies of well dressed and fine looking 
                        Miami
                     and Pottawattomie Indians, of all ages and sexes, who would sit for hours on the bank
                    admiring the boat, which they greatly  desired to see in motion,
                    under a full head of steam. After four days and nights of ineffectual efforts to proceed, the boat
                    was abandoned by-all except the captain and part of the crew.
            Two or three weeks afterwards over a dozen yokes of large oxen were brought down from 
                        Logansport
                    , and the Republican hauled over ripples and sand-bars to 
                        Logansport
                    , and the citizens of that place and the surrounding country had the luxury of a
                    steamboat arrival on the 4th of July, and Captain Towe had the (doubtful) honor of being the
                    commander of the first steamboat that visited 
                        Logansport
                    ; for it cost him his boat, which bilged soon after its arrival in port, and its hull,
                    years afterwards, might be seen lying sunk to the bottom of the 
                        Wabash
                     near its confluence with the waters of Eel river.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               
                  
                            Evansville
                        's Channels of Trade and the Secession Movement, 1850-1860. By DANIEL
                    W. SNEEP, Indiana Historical Society, Publications, Volume VIII, number 7. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1928. Pp. 66.
            This study easily merits its appearance in the list of Indiana Historical Society Publications. It shows again that local materials can be used very advantageously by a
                    careful, pains taking student in the production of a valuable and interesting historical paper. The
                    contents indicate nine divisions of subject matter, an appendix, a bibliography, and two maps.
                    Tables compiled from local newspaper reports are included; The thesis is developed around these
                    topics: the Beginnings of 
                        Evansville
                    ; Early Packet Lines; 
                        Evansville
                    's Incoming River Traffic; Effects of the Civil War upon the River Traffic; the
                    Canal; the Canal in Operation; the Railroad; Chief Articles of Commerce; and Trade and Politics. One
                    is fully convinced that the city was, during the fifties and sixties, awake to her problems and
                    possibilities.
            
               
                        Evansville
                     holds a unique and strategic position in the Ohio valley. The
                    distance to 
                        Nashville
                     by packet, is more than a hundred miles shorter than to 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; to 
                        Memphis
                     is shorter than to Attica, Indiana. Connections to the North were by the
                        Wabash River, the Canal to 
                        Toledo
                     (1853 to 1861), and the 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Railroad (after 1854). Commerce with the South depended chiefly upon the Green, the 
                        Cumberland
                    , the 
                        Tennessee
                    , and the Mississippi Rivers. These trade routes and the
                    differences between northern and southern demands on the markets, together with secession and war
                    determined, for the most part, 
                        Evansville
                    's business relations. Some problems were: (1) whether to reach the North east
                    by canal or railroad; (2) whether to support a "Straight  Line Railroad" to 
                        Indianapolis
                     or not; (3) how to make the needed adjustments between demand and supply of the
                    northern and southern markets; and (4) how to make the transfer of wholesale business from 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        New York
                    .
            The first and second questions had been answered before the secessionist movement affected business
                    connections. The Canal was a failure. The "Straight Line Railroad" was not
                    completed. The influence of John Ingle, President of the 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Railroad, was felt. His opposition ruined the credit of Willard Carpenter, who was
                    negotiating for rails in 
                        England
                    . Carpenter's opponents kept him from securing the $100,000 in bonds
                    pledged by the City of 
                        Evansville
                    .
            The Civil War influenced to a marked degree the solution of the other problems. "
                        Evansville
                    's tobacco manufacturers suffered a heavy loss when trade relations with the
                    South were severed." (p. 336). "When war was declared steamboat traffic to the
                    South was utterly ruined. The Cairo packet line was harrassed by military restrictions; the carrying
                    trade of both the Wabash River packets and the 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Railroad was greatly decreased by the lack of a southern demand; business in 
                        Evansville
                     came to a virtual standstill and men were without work." (p. 337). 
                        New Orleans
                     being closed to 
                        Evansville
                     by the war, an impetus to more business between 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        New York
                     was given.
            
               
                        Evansville
                     was loyal to the Union in spite of her import ant commercial, geographic, and family
                    connections with the South. Disloyal sentiment was present after the election of 1860, but repressed
                    after April, 1861. The story of the political situation here, is not essentially different from that
                    of many other localities of the border area.
            RAYMOND J. REBCE.
         
         
            
               Recollections of the Civil War. By Oran Perry. Indiana History
                        Bulletin, Volume V, Extra Number 3. Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1928. Pp. 66, fifty cents.
            The author of this reminiscence of the Civil War enlisted as a private in Company B of the 16th
                    Indiana Regiment. As a result of merit, courage, and superior ability, he was raised in rank from
                    time to time, and, when mustered out at the close  of the War,
                    was the Colonel in command of the 69th regiment of Indiana Volunteers. Since 1865, he has held
                    several offices of trust and responsibility in this State particularly in the military field. For
                    the past ten years he has been Superintendent of the Soldiers' and Sailors'
                    Monument at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            In the pamphlet under review the author has not attempted to write a general chronicle of the Civil
                    War. He has not dealt with affairs familiar to him only by hearsay, but rather has narrated
                    incidents and episodes in which he was a participant. This is a very commendable feature in any work
                    of a reminiscent nature. He writes in a free narrative style and shows much literary ability.
            The author has drawn for us in this collection of seven sketches many unique and interesting pictures
                    of army life during the Civil War. He writes first of a chance meeting with 
                        Lincoln
                     and the inspiration this meeting brought to him. Then, in "A Dismal Night In
                    Dixie," he narrates vividly his experiences during and after the first skirmish in the
                    campaign against 
                        Vicksburg
                    . Following this he tells in "The Entering Wedge", of extending the
                    northern lines down the 
                        Mississippi
                     and the occupation of the plantation near 
                        Vicksburg
                     of a Mr. Joshua James, a sturdy old southern gentleman, whose greatest regret was that
                    he had not been able to sign the secession ordinance as conspicuously as had John Hancock the
                    Declaration of Independence. In "The Sergeant of Company F," the author presents a
                    wonderful character sketch and shows the admirable "stuff" of which true patriots
                    are made. The writer then takes us for a trip up the Mississippi River in
                    August of '64 on the steamer Empress which on the fifth day out was
                    attacked by bushwhackers. In this sketch, "A Barbarous Battle," he depicts the
                    valor of the steamer's officials, who, though they were in sympathy with the southern
                    cause, protected a valuable northern cargo and passengers. More than two hundred of those on board
                    were northern soldiers going home on a furlough.
            Some contrasts are drawn between the Civil War and the World War in "The Vanishing
                    'Vet' ". In "Our Friends—The Enemy", we find
                    exhibited the disposition of Union and Con federate soldiers to be friends whenever they met on
                    neutral ground unarmed and during periods of truce. After such a period on one occasion, a 
                        South Carolina
                     regimental band closed its customary evening concert with "The Star Spangled
                         Banner", the northern troops having applauded the
                    preceding numbers.
            Some of the dates given by the author are inaccurate, due probably to an oversight on his part or a
                    failure to check them with the records. Several of these errors are not serious but when giving the
                    time of the beginning of the 
                        Vicksburg
                     Campaign at 
                        Memphis
                    , December 20,1863, is indicated (p. 7). This is no doubt an accidental error. The year
                    should be 1862, of course.
            Colonel Perry in this series of recollections has skillfully intermingled humor and pathos. His
                    powers of narration and description are admirable. He has made a delightful and helpful contribution
                    to our many and interesting sidelights upon the Civil War.
            LEE F. CRIPPEN.
         
         
            The 
                        Chicago
                     University Press has published The Life of George Rogers Clark by
                    James 
                        Alton
                     James, Professor of American History in Northwestern University. This volume is the
                    result of many years of patient research, and is a very scholarly work dealing with the history of
                    the old Northwest in the period of Clark's activities. The book will receive more extended
                    attention in a future number.
            The Indiana Historical Bureau has brought out a handy little volume entitled A
                        Bibliography of the Laws of Indiana. This is volume XVI of the Indiana
                        Historical Collections, and may be obtained from the Historical Bureau at one dollar per
                    copy. It will be reviewed in our March issue.
            Indiana University has published Gold Production and Prices before and after the World
                        War, by Lionel Danforth Edie of the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . This monograph which is Study No. 78, Volume XV, of Indiana University
                        Studies, is a doctoral dissertation. The pamphlet may be obtained separately from the
                    Indiana University Bookstore for seventy-five cents.
         
         
         
            Comment and News
            Much good work has been done in the field of Indiana History, but a vast amount remains to be
                    accomplished. The soil of the State formed a part of the French colonial empire. Falling into
                    British hands, a brief but interesting interval elapsed before the jurisdiction of the new 
                        United States
                     was established. It was after 1783, after 1800 indeed, that the geographic area of
                    which Indiana forms a part, was colonized. Except in a political sense, the colonial period of the
                    State's history did not end with the granting of statehood. The process of building a
                    civilization where none had existed before went on from 1816 to 1850. In that period, Indiana was as
                    truly a colony of the older portion of the 
                        United States
                     as 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Massachusetts
                     had ever been of Great Britain, save in the matter of government. The colonial era of
                    Indiana is rich in subjects that pertain to the upbuilding of religious, educational and economic
                    life. Opportunities are open to those who have the talent and the patience, and who also are
                    sufficiently interested, to prepare historical papers. There are, in addition, many bio graphical
                    sketches still to be produced, while State and local party history is yet an inviting field.
            The time is now ripe for a number of the older citizens of Indiana to consider the wisdom of giving
                    to the public the history of the events and movements of which they know from personal experience.
                    Museums pay high prices for tools, utensils, furniture and other articles that have become rare, be
                    cause not collected while yet plentiful though passing out of use. The time to obtain wheat-cradles,
                    dasher-churns and saw-bucks is now. Soon these once useful and common things will be as scarce as
                    flails and trundle-beds. For exactly the same reason, recollections or reminiscences falling within
                    the years  from 1865 to 1900, have become very desirable and
                    extremely valuable. Much important and interesting history is locked up in the memories of people
                    who are approaching old age. A citizen who was mature enough to enter college when Leesur rendered
                    at 
                        Appomattox
                     is now eighty years of age. Those who were in the prime of life in 1900, at forty years
                    of age, are now to-day nearing three score and ten. A vast amount of water has flowed under the
                    bridge since the Civil War. In be half of those who now fill up the public schools and the colleges
                    of Indiana, and of those who will follow them, an appeal is here made for a number of narratives of
                    an autobiographical character from the pens of people who helped to make history in the State
                    between 1865 and 1900. If these contributions are not made soon, they will never be forthcoming.
            It is not unusual for writers of autobiographies or reminiscences to delay too long. Human memories
                    are treacherous at the best, and in many cases, the recollections of old men and women are very
                    inaccurate. Writings of the character under consideration should by all means be undertaken before
                    the memory becomes impaired. The individual who decides to re veal the valuable knowledge that will
                    go to the grave with him if not written, should avoid telling too much. It is what he knows from
                    personal observation and experience that constitutes the gold in whatever he may produce. The man
                    who fought at 
                        Shiloh
                     ought not to bring in the alloy of a vast amount of second hand information concerning
                    all the campaigns of the West. He should tell only what he learned from his own activities and
                    contacts, and record the events in which he had a share. No man when writing the history of his own
                    community during his own life time is under any obligation to begin with the Garden of Eden, the
                    fall of 
                        Rome
                    , or the discovery of America.
            An excellent and able man of one of the cities of northern Indiana, announced a few years before his
                    death that he con templated the writing of a history of the State. This was a sad decision. He had
                    played an important part in local affairs for a quarter of a century and more. He knew a great deal
                    about the politics of Indiana in his period, and especially of his own city and the area round
                    about. He knew many men well.  He had sources to which he could
                    go to check his recollections. He had a wonderful opportunity to write a reminiscence and give to
                    the world much accurate information in regard to local and State party history. This he probably
                    could have accomplished readily during his last years. The big treatise which he felt a call to
                    produce, for the greater part of which he was unprepared, was not written. That he did not perform
                    the simpler task, for which he was so well fitted, was a real calamity.
            Many reminiscent sketches ought to be written and published by Hoosiers with adequate knowledge in
                    hand, during the next few years. Some well informed Republican who was on the inside should write
                    the story of the campaign of 1888 in Indiana. An honest and intelligent ex-saloon keeper from
                    somewhere would do a real service were he to furnish a true story of the connections between the
                    breweries, distilleries and saloons on the one side and the parties on the other. A frank narrative
                    of the manipulation of the delegates before and during the meeting of the State Democratic
                    Convention of 1908 by a knowing Democrat would be a refreshing contribution. Many interesting tales
                    could be unfolded by experienced members of the General Assembly of past years who have no axes to
                    grind. Former members of the State Board of Education could no doubt write interesting chapters that
                    would throw light on the educational progress of the last quarter of the nineteenth century.
                    Newspaper men have unusual opportunities to write narratives that will enrich the history of
                    Indiana. Business men who have achieved things worth while, or who have seen enterprises flourish
                    and decay, have unlimited opportunities to contribute helpful sketches. Authors who recount personal
                    experiences and who give estimates of their friends and rivals can never be expected to throw off
                    all bias. They can, how ever, be honest and frank, they can avoid unduly eulogizing their friends,
                    and they can refrain from exaggerating the failings of their enemies. To over-praise friendly
                    associates and deny even the virtues of rivals are not the worst faults that can mark personal
                    recollections. The direst possible thing that can befall the author of a reminiscent narrative is to
                    get away from reality, to present a set of contemporaries who never existed and to write as history
                    what he feels ought to have been true, instead of what he knows to have happened.
            
            During the year 1928, the first three issues of the Indiana Magazine of History
                    have each been mailed to subscribers some weeks late. For this, we are extremely sorry. The delays
                    have been mainly due to changes in the editorial management. The present Editor indulges a strong
                    hope that the current number may be ready for mailing before the Christmas holidays. The Business
                    Manager invites correspondence from all subscribers who have not received all numbers of the
                    Magazine to which they are entitled. We desire to keep the ad dresses of subscribers as nearly
                    correct as possible, and ask that changes of address shall be promptly reported.
            Dr. A. T. Volwiler of Wittenberg College is at work on a life of Benjamin Harrison. The biography
                    will consist of a single volume which will be the result of several years of careful research.
                    Before writing, Professor Volwiler aims to exhaust the available sources, both printed and
                    manuscript. He plans to follow the biography with several volumes of correspondence. These volumes
                    will be made up of the most significant and interesting letters included in the Harrison Papers in
                    the Library of Congress with some from other important manuscript collections. As much time as the
                    other duties of a college teacher would permit, has been given to the project during the past two
                    years. Perhaps a fifth of the necessary labor has been performed. A preliminary account of the early
                    life of President Harrison was read before the Indiana State Historical Society at the annual
                    meeting of 1927. The work which Doctor Volwiler has under way, will be eagerly awaited in
                Indiana.
         
         
            Corrections
            
                    
                  
                     
                        My dear Doctor Coleman:
                        Inasmuch as I note you edited the March issue of the State Historical Magazine which
                                    I have just received, I am writing for- the purpose of calling attention to an
                                    unintentional error which appeared in Mr. Cottman's interesting article on "
                                        Lincoln
                                     in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    ."
                        In his preface Mr. Cottman says that "this speech and visit dropped wholly
                                    out of sight until last year, no historian or biographer, so far as I can find,
                                    making any mention of it."
                        By reason of the fact that last year my volume on "
                                        Lincoln
                                     and the Railroads," published by Dodd, Mead & Co.,
                                    contained a reference to this  visit, I am
                                    writing to call your attention to the source of my information.
                        In 1888 Allen Thorndyke Rice edited a volume on "Reminiscenses of Abraham 
                                        Lincoln
                                    " in which appears an article from the pen of Hon Hugh
                                    McCulloch, one of his Secretaries of the Treasury. In this article Mr. McCulloch
                                    says "the first time I saw and heard him was at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     after the conclusion of his debate with Douglas" and then
                                    refers to the impressions made on his mind.
                        I am writing this merely as a matter of correction.
                        
                                    John W. Starr, Jr. Millersburg, Penn.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Mr. Lynch:
                        I am glad to have the within correction. You will note that I qualified my statement
                                    by the clause, "so far as I can find." My knowledge of 
                                        Lincoln
                                     literature was not broad enough.
                        
                                    Sincerely,
                                    Geo. S. Cottman. 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        .
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            In the paper, "Ephraim Samuel Frazee, 1824-1896", which appeared in our September
                    issue, the following statement occurs on page 187: "The land was covered with heavy
                    forests, many of the large poplar, oak and walnut trees having trunks from ten to fifteen feet in
                    circumference." In the original copy as submitted, the last word in the sentence was diameter. Since the assertion included the word many, referred
                    to poplar, oak and walnut trees, and mentioned trunks instead of stumps, the Editor, supposing that
                    an accidental error had been made, substituted the word circumference for diameter. A letter received from Mrs. Hamilton indicates that she intended to make
                    the statement as it appeared originally. In justice to the author, we are glad to give to our
                    readers the defense which she has made of her assertion: 
                        The one correction you have made which I regret is where you question my statement in regard
                            to the size of the walnut trees on my father's farm and use the word circumference instead of diameter. It was a subject talked of
                            when I was a child, the remarkably large trees on my father's farm. However the
                            only positive proof I can give personally is that of the stump of a walnut tree whose hollow
                            my little sister and I used as a play house. This tree was thirteen feet in diameter. A
                            ten-foot rail lay flat for years across the hollow center of this old stump. In my
                            grandmother's yard were the stumps of two old walnut trees. One was  nine feet across and the other eleven. These trees were felled
                            before I was born (1866), but the stumps remained until I was a young lady. A tree only
                            twelve feet in circumference was not large enough for special comment in 
                                Rush County
                            .
                    
            
            In a later letter relative to the size of the trees on her father's farm, Mrs. Hamilton with
                    a highly commendable de sire to be accurate, writes: "Since the 'tree'
                    has lately been discussed in my family, I find that my original statement was more of an
                    exaggeration than I thought. The one tree referred to as my childhood play-house,
                    which was thirteen feet in diameter, seems to have been the largest of all those immense walnut
                    trees on my father's farm." Perhaps some of our readers can furnish interesting
                    facts relative to large trees that grew on the soil of Indiana. The Editor invites
                    correspondence.
            We take this opportunity to correct a peculiar typographical error which occurs in the seventh line,
                    on page 186, of Mrs. Hamilton's paper. In the first portion of this line, but
                        six should be substituted for by his.
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
