
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 75, Issue 3, pages 225-300. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:75+issue:3+year:1979&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            
               
                        New Harmony
                    's First Utopians, 1814–1824
            
                    Donald E. Pitzer
                
            
                    Josephine M. Elliott
                    ∗
                
            A steamboat carrying salt and store goods slowly made its way up the 
                        Wabash
                     River on the morning of April 29, 1823. As the boat prepared to stop for firewood at
                    the unique town of 
                        New Harmony
                     on the Indiana frontier, the villagers were unusually excited. This was the first
                    steamboat they had ever seen navigate the seventy miles from the 
                        Ohio
                     River to 
                        New Harmony
                    . George Rapp, their leader, and a few others boarded a small boat to view the welcome
                    arrival. Rapp ordered the town cannon fired to mark the occasion. In carrying out his command, the
                    townsmen overloaded the cannon and fired it with a crowd of spectators standing nearby. When the
                    noise of the blast died away, a boy had lost his foot, a man had been knocked to the ground and
                    nearly killed by a wound to the head, and five others had been injured.1
            
            
               
                  ∗ Donald E. Pitzer, professor of history, Indiana State
                        University 
                     Evansville, Evansville
                  , Indiana, prepared the text of the following
                        article. Josephine M. Elliott, archivist emeritus, Indiana State University 
                            Evansville
                        , collected the pictures and wrote the captions and text accompanying them. The
                        authors gratefully acknowledge the aid received from the Helen Elliott Fund of the Indiana State
                        University 
                            Evansville
                         Foundation in preparing this article.
               
                        
                     1 Diary of George Rapp, May 4, 1823, in Karl J. R. Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 1785–1847 (rev. ed., 
                                Rutherford
                            , N.J., 1972), 248. Rapp reflected that "out of this you can again see
                            that most misfortune comes from the carelessness because humans do not use their reason for
                            that which their Creator gave it." Karl J. R. Arndt, ed., A
                                Documentary History of the Indiana Decade of the Harmony Society,
                            1814–1824. Volume II, 1820–1824 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1978), 576.
                        The most accessible and useful published primary sources and general accounts of the Harmony
                            Society while at 
                                New Harmony
                             are Karl J. R. Arndt, ed., A Documentary History of the Indiana
                                Decade of the Harmony Society, 1814–1824. Volume I, 1814–1819 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1975), Volume II, 1820–1824 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1978); Karl J. R. Arndt, The Indiana Decade of George
                                Rapp's Harmony Society, 1814–1824 (
                                Worcester
                            , Mass., 1971), reprinted from The Proceedings of the American
                                Antiquarian Society, April 21, 1970-October 21, 1970
                  
                    
            
            
            Rarely had such frenzy seized the community of the Harmony Society on the 
                        Wabash
                     or such irresponsible behavior distracted its members from their methodical routine.
                    These German immigrants were known for their solid achievements through discipline, sobriety, and
                    hard work. Their town was a monument to planning, order, and cleanliness. The eight hundred
                    residents were Lutheran dissenters who since 1803 had come to America from the German province of
                    Württemberg. They had built the town of Harmony in 
                        Butler
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and had moved to the Indiana Territory in 1814 seeking land to accommodate new
                    members, a navigable river for trade, and a mild climate for grape culture. In only nine years they
                    had literally carved 
                        New Harmony
                     out of the wilderness. Their estate of nearly twenty thousand acres had become a model
                    of communal enterprise that attracted visitors from the 
                        United States
                     and Europe. In turn, the visitors, especially those from 
                        England
                    , had made 
                        New Harmony
                     famous by describing it in letters, newspaper articles, and books that were read widely
                    throughout America, the British Isles, and the German provinces.2
            
            Looking ashore on that spring morning in 1823, the steamboat crew could appreciate many of the
                    visitors' tales. Where else on the American frontier could so many people be found living
                    in such material abundance, cultural refinement, and economic security? Long before reaching the
                    town itself, the boatmen could see evidence of the two to three thousand acres that had been fenced
                    and brought under cultivation. Large fields were planted with wheat, corn, oats, sugarcane, cotton,
                    tobacco, flax, hemp, rye, and barley. Acre upon acre surrounding the village was green with
                    vineyards and apple, peach, and pear orchards. Cattle, horses, and prized merino sheep grazed on the
                    hillsides. As their boat reached the landing at the north end of 
                        New Harmony
                    , the men could view the straight, broad 
                  (Vol. LXXX, 
                                Worcester
                            , Mass., 1971), 299–323; Arndt, George Rapp's
                                Harmony Society; John A. Bole, The Harmony Society: A Chapter in
                                German American Culture History (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1904); John S. Dues, The Harmonists: A Personal History
                            (reprint, Ambridge, Pa., 1970); George B. Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1905); and William E. Wilson, The Angel and the Serpent: The
                                Story of 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                      (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1964). The archival materials of the Harmony Society are held at Old
                            Economy Village, Ambridge, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , and at the 
                                Pennsylvania
                             State Archives, 
                                Harrisburg
                            .
                  
                     2 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            268–86; William N. Blane, An Excursion through the
                                        
                           United States and Canada
                         during the Years 1822–23, by an English
                                Gentleman (
                                London
                            , 1824), 244–53, reprinted in Arndt, Documentary
                            History, n, 523–28; Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 15–19, 23–27; The Diaries
                                of Donald MacDonald, 1824–1826 (Indiana Historical Society
                                Publications, Vol. XIV, No. 2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1942), 245–49.
               
                     streets of the town neatly lined with poplar trees and picket
                    fences.
            
               
                        New Harmony
                     was a prosperous and almost completely self-sufficient, communally owned city of some
                    180 buildings. Factories, mills, and granaries combined with the produce of the fields and forests
                    to provide the necessities of life. Through a post office, bank, store, and tavern, commerce was
                    carried on. A school, library, church, and community house and public gardens fostered education,
                    culture, and religion. Each family lived comfortably in a log, frame, or two-story brick house on a
                    fenced lot with its own garden and cow. Single adults had rooms in one of four dormitories occupied
                    by both sexes. No community had greater solidarity or a clearer vision of its Utopian future.
                    Rapp's followers were convinced that they were a chosen people, divinely appointed to help
                    establish the Kingdom of God on earth after the imminent Second Coming of Christ. As such, they had
                    united in imitation of first-century Christian communism to found their Harmony Society in 1805.3
            
            The religious foundation so little understood by contemporaries but so essential to the existence of 
                        New Harmony
                     had been laid decades before in the German province of Württemberg. There,
                    twenty-five miles northwest of Stuttgart in the picturesque village of Iptingen on the little Enz
                    River, Johann Georg Rapp was born in 1757. And there, in the midst of growing religious and
                    political tensions, he grew to manhood, having learned vine dressing from his father and having
                    become a weaver by trade but feeling all the while an irresistable desire to preach. Disillusioned
                    with the cold formality of the state Evangelical (Lutheran) church and attracted to the emotional
                    appeal of pietism, he separated from the church in 1785. The magnetism of his personality and the
                    potency of his ideas had already made him the leader of other religious dissenters who were meeting
                    illegally in his house. The nucleus from which the Harmony Society would spring had formed.4
            
            The apprehension of the Evangelical church fathers grew in proportion to the number of
                    Rapp's followers. By 1791 the clergy convinced the civic authorities of
                    Württemberg that by refusing to support the church or permit their children to attend
                        
                  
                     3 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            277, 279, 292–96; Arndt, Documentary History, I, ix-xii, 799,
                            800, II, 842–54; Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 16–18.
                  
                     4 Except where otherwise indicated, this historical account is based
                            on Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 15–70; and
                            Karl J. R. Arndt, "The Strange and Wonderful New World of George Rapp and His
                            Harmony Society," The 
                                    Western Pennsylvania
                                 Historical Magazine, LVII (April, 1974), 141–66.
               
                     the Lutheran-controlled public schools, the separatists posed a
                    threat to civil government. An unsuccessful attempt to silence Rapp and to crush his movement
                    ensued. Rapp refused all suggestions that he stop preaching, asserting to the officials at
                    Maulbronn, "I am a prophet and am called to be one." When he was imprisoned
                    briefly, his popularity increased. Upwards of twenty thousand people eventually considered him their
                    prophet.
            Rapp's doctrines held a strong appeal for the common German people during a difficult time
                    in their history. His ideas were straightforward, strong in emotional content, and most compelling
                    once firmly believed. Basically, they emphasized the beliefs and practices of the early Christians
                    as Rapp understood them. Heartfelt conversion from sin and daily, personal communion with God were
                    his cardinal pietistic principles. Constant pursuit of Christian perfection prepared the righteous
                    for the second appearance of Christ and the work of setting up the new social order that would
                    accompany the Kingdom of God on earth. Biblical prophecy provided the most important element for
                    cementing Rapp's followers as a group. It gave them the sense of being a select few with a
                    divine mission. They increasingly saw themselves as the Chosen People of God described as the Church
                    of 
                        Philadelphia
                     and the Sunwoman in chapters 3 and 12 of the Book of Revelation. As the modern
                    embodiment of the ancient Church of Brotherly Love, the Rappites considered themselves
                    God's most faithful and favored congregation (Rev. 3:8–12). Later, they viewed
                    their communal society in America as an example for all Christendom, its members reaching toward
                    holiness, bearing up under every burden, and reaping the promises of eternal reward mentioned in St.
                    John's vision.5
            
            As Rapp's utterances became ever more unorthodox, the Württemberg government
                    demanded that he submit a written statement of faith in 1798. From this time and this statement the
                    Harmony Society can be said to have taken shape. The statement indicated that the Rappites opposed
                    infant baptism, confirmation, oaths, and military service. Although they respected the place of
                    government in human affairs, they upheld the right of like-minded people to form separate
                    congregations and to establish schools to promote their doctrines. They also asserted that only the
                    righteous should be permitted to take holy communion.6
            
            
               
                  5 Arndt, Indiana Decade of George Rapp's Harmony
                            Society, 2–7.
               
                  6 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                        36–40, gives the 1798 Statement of Faith in full.
            
            
            Such open rebellion against religious and civil authority could not go uncensored in Lutheran
                    Württemberg. Rapp was summoned to Maulbronn again for questioning in 1803 and commanded
                    not to speak outside Iptingen. It was then that he decided that the time had come to seek a haven
                    for himself and those faithful to his teachings beyond the reach of an established church. America
                    beckoned prophetically, as it had to so many earlier Europeans, as the pristine land of millennial
                    promise, and Rapp willingly yielded. Accompanied only by his son, John; Dr. John Christopher
                    Mueller; and Dr. P. Friedrich Conrad Haller, who soon forsook him, Rapp arrived in 
                        Philadelphia
                     on October 7, 1803. He had every expection of being joined by thousands of German
                    separatists as soon as he could locate lands for their settlement. In reality, although many German
                    pietists immigrated in the early nineteenth century and some founded their own communal societies as
                    at Zoar, 
                        Ohio
                    ; Ebenezer, 
                        New York
                    ; and Amana, 
                        Iowa
                    , not more than 1,200 became residents of one of Rapp's three towns.
            Rapp and his advance party of 1803 visited and tried without success to secure federal government
                    land on the Muskingum River in the new state of 
                        Ohio
                    . Not realizing that a land grant or special price would take congressional action, the
                    Harmonist visionary appealed to President Thomas Jefferson in a personal visit. Jefferson expressed
                    interest in Rapp's project and his high ideals but explained that only Congress could grant
                    such a favor. Later, in 1806, the 
                        United States
                     House of Representatives rejected the Harmony Society's request for a grant of
                    land on the 
                        Wabash
                     near 
                        Vincennes
                    .7 In the meantime, hundreds of separatists left
                    Württemberg believing that they were fulfilling the prophecy of the Sunwoman of
                    Revelation 12:6 who "fled into the wilderness, where she hath a place prepared of
                    God" and began arriving in the 
                        United States
                     in July, 1804. Their somewhat premature arrival forced Rapp to purchase a much less
                    desirable site on the shallow Connoquenessing River twelve miles from the 
                        Ohio
                     River in 
                        Butler
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , north of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     where the climate would not be favorable for vineyards.
            There the Rappites adopted first-century Christian communism as much out of necessity as out of
                    religious conviction. They had established a treasury of contributions for minor expenses in
                    Württemberg that was administered by Frederick Reichert who became Rapp's
                    adopted son at Harmony, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    
                    
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 83–90; U.S., Annals of Congress, 9
                            Cong., 1 Sess., 476–77; Wilson, Angel and the Serpent,
                            16–20.
               
                     But in America their financial situation was so critical that
                    if the immigrants were to survive as a group complete economic sharing and central administration of
                    available funds were essential. There could be no rich and poor, only brothers and sisters sharing a
                    common purse as the early Christians had done. Like all other Christian communitarians before and
                    since, the Rappites cited verses from the Acts of the Apostles as justification for their communism:
                        
                        And all that believed were together, and had all things common; And sold their possessions
                            and goods, and parted them to all men, as every man had need (Acts 2:44, 45). And the
                            multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul: neither said any of them
                            that ought of the things which he possessed were his own; but they had all things common.
                            … Neither was there any among them that lacked; for as many as were possessors of
                            lands or houses sold them, and brought the prices of the things that were sold, And laid
                            them down at the apostles' feet: and distribution was made unto every man according
                            as he had need (Acts 4:32, 34, 35).
                    
                
            Rapp had become convinced of the feasibility of communal living partly by reading the 1741 German
                    edition of Johann Valentin Andreae's Christianopolls. First printed in
                    Latin in 1619, this novel by the well-known seventeenth-century Württemburg social
                    reformer and clergyman described the workings of an imaginary communal Christian republic in great
                    detail. Rapp applied the ideas of Andreae to his Harmony Society and eventually taught that God had
                    intended all mankind to live communally. Adam's sin, he suggested, had substituted
                    self-seeking and private property for the pure communism of God's plan. Only in the
                    harmonious world created by the saints upon Christ's return would this perfect condition be
                    universally revived. It was Rapp's intention that the communism of the Harmony Society be a
                    beginning to this revolutionary process.8
            
            On February 15, 1805, the Harmony Society became a corporate body at Harmony, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , when 450 to 500 charter members signed the Articles of Association which constituted
                    their solemn agreement. Each one gave over all his property to the Society and pledged to submit to
                    the rules, to promote the interests of the congregation, and to relinquish all claims to
                    reimbursement should he withdraw. In return the Society promised each member complete access to its
                    religious and educational benefits, all the necessities of life in sickness 
                  
                     8 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 56,
                            239–41, 313; Johann V. Andreae, Christianopolis: An Ideal State of
                                the Seventeenth Century, trans. Felix E. Held (
                                New York
                            , 1916).
               
                     and in health, and a cash donation if he should leave the group
                    while in good standing. Eight hundred members were taken into the Harmony Society at Harmony. As
                    late as 1818 at 
                        New Harmony
                    , members still were being admitted in groups as large as fifty by merely signing the
                    original Articles of Agreement after a six- to eight-week trial period. In 1818 the community
                    decided to destroy the record telling what each person had donated to the Society and to repeal the
                    section of the articles that guaranteed a parting cash gift. This enhanced the equality of all
                    within the communistic brotherhood, cancelled any hopes the rising generation may have had of
                    gaining family inheritances, and insured against the nagging problem of demands for exorbitant
                    payment by departing members.9
            
            By 1820 the population of 
                        New Harmony
                     included Society members, candidates for membership, apprentices, German indentured
                    servants who had come to America after 1816 partly on Rapp's encouragement but without
                    sufficient funds for passage, and a few former slaves whose freedom the Society had purchased in
                    return for a set time of indentured service. By 1821 Rapp was persuaded that many of the recent
                    German immigrants who became members were ill prepared by commitment of faith or communal
                    orientation to add to the stability and progress of the Society. Therefore, he decided to protect
                    the community from any further mass inductions by forbidding members to write any more letters of
                    enticement to German friends and by drawing up a new, more explicit, individual contract for future
                    members. This contract included the basics of the 1805 Articles but had to be more formally signed
                    by the new member and countersigned by "George Rapp and Society" in the presence
                    of witnesses.10
            
            The Harmonists experienced a religious revival in 1807 and 1808 at the time that the Second Great
                    Awakening was popularizing camp meetings and shaking the foundations of American Calvinism and the
                    Shakers were sending missionaries west to found communal societies in 
                  Ohio, Kentucky
               , and Indiana. Millennialism and perfectionism became hallmarks of
                    subsequent Rappite thought and practice. Their expectation of Christ's immediate return and
                    the establishment 
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 72–76, 198, 200; Arndt, Documentary
                            History, I, 541–42, 571–73, 580, 582, 584, 589.
                  
                     10 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            198–200. Between 1805 and 1903, 1,050 Harmonists signed ten different documents
                            that defined and modified their relationship to the Society. These documents are printed in
                            Bole, Harmony Society, 6–34.
               
                     of his one-thousand-year kingdom on earth was intensified. They
                    stopped smoking tobacco and renounced sexual relations.11
            
            During and after the 1807 revival Rapp increasingly devoted himself to the interpretation of
                    Scripture and world events as they might apply to the coming millennium. He gave literal meaning to
                    Jesus' words, 
                        if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that
                            where I am, there ye may be also (John 14:3). Hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sitting
                            on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven (Mark 14:62). Blessed are
                            those servants, whom the Lord when he cometh shall find watching: verily I say unto you,
                            that he shall gird himself, and make them to sit down to meat, and will come forth and serve
                            them (Luke 12:37).
                     Although it can be assumed that the Harmonist preacher knew Jesus' caution that
                    "of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father
                    only" (Matt. 24:36), he felt strongly that the Napoleonic wars signalled mystically that
                    Christ's return was close at hand. While at 
                        New Harmony
                     he had an insatiable appetite for news. He closely observed the fate of Napoleon and 
                        Italy
                    , comet sightings in Europe, the Congress of 
                        Vienna
                    , the formation of the Holy Alliance, the fighting between 
                  France and Spain
                in 1823, and events in
                    far-off 
                        China
                    . He linked all of these developments to the millennial prophecies in Daniel and
                    Revelation. The evening religious discussions at 
                        New Harmony
                     often focused on the theme of Christ's second coming, with references made to
                    biblical passages and to the writings of mystics Johannes Tauler, Jakob Boehme, and Emanuel
                    Swedenborg and philosopher Johann Herder.12 Rapp finally concluded that
                    virtually all Scripture pointed in this grand direction. On May 4, 1823, he confided to his diary:
                        
                        When Christ announced His coming Kingdom of God and preached it, all nations which wished the
                            improvement of their life and purity and heart had a part in it. Let us too hope that in our
                            critical times fairness and brotherly love may commonly flourish among men, where the duties
                            of those well disposed and the will of the Lord will be done in Earth as in Heaven, as is
                            now already done in the Harmonie (i.e., the Harmony Society). This
                            comforting message of peace the Bible proclaims in almost all chapters of the Old and New
                            Testament. Our period of time is suited for this, all disagreements and revolutions are
                            evolutions and purpose toward the high goal, so just have patience.13
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  11 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 97;
                        Arndt, Documentary History, II, 846.
               
                  12 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 96,
                        97, 158, 163, 215, 235, 240, 243, 247, 248, 251, 252; Arndt, "The Strange and Wonderful
                        New World of George Rapp and His Harmony Society," 161.
               
                  13 Printed in Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony
                        Society, 249.
            
            
            At the insistence of Father Rapp the community later began to collect a "church
                    fund" in specie that was intended to shield the Society against the monetary uncertainties
                    preceding Christ's return. Along with freshly kept flour for bread making, this fund was to
                    be available on a moment's notice for Rapp's historic pilgrimage to Jerusalem
                    where he would introduce his righteous band to the triumphant Savior. Under the exclusive, even
                    secret, control of the Harmonist patriarch, the church fund grew to a half million dollars in gold
                    and silver coins in a vault under his bedroom in Economy.14
            
            Religious belief, then, was the invisible framework that held the Harmony Society together and
                    supported virtually every building and activity that could be observed in 
                        New Harmony
                     between 1814 and 1824. But to outsiders unfamiliar with the subtle pietistic and
                    millennial teachings of the charismatic Father Rapp, the importance of the Society and its frontier
                    town rested on their rapid rise to economic and political prominence in the development of Indiana
                    and the American West. Under the astute leadership of the elder Rapp and his adopted son, Frederick
                    (Reichert) Rapp, the little German village quickly had become an oasis of trade on a frontier of
                    thinly scattered English and French settlers. The absence of nearby competitive towns worked in
                    favor of 
                        New Harmony
                    's well-managed economic growth. Except for 
                        Vincennes
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                     fifty miles overland to the north, 
                        Newburgh
                     thirty-five miles to the southeast on the 
                        Ohio
                     River, and Shawneetown eighty miles down the 
                  Wabash and Ohio
                in 
                        Illinois
                    , there were few places in the entire region besides 
                        New Harmony
                     to grind grain, sell pelts, or buy supplies.
            George Rapp insisted that his people balance their economy among agriculture, manufacturing, and
                    commerce. By 1819, midway through the decade they would live in Indiana, his Harmonists were
                    providing for nearly all of their own needs and selling more than $12,000 worth of
                    agricultural produce annually.15 The following year their manufactured goods
                    were valued at $50,000, exceeding that of any Indiana county except Scott.16 The Rappite cotton and woolen mills were powered by 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 573, 576, 596. See picture of the vault following page 352 in Karl
                            J. R. Arndt, George Rapp's Successors and Material Heirs,
                                1847–1916 (
                                Rutherford
                            , N.J., 1971).
                  
                     15 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            207.
                  
                     16
                            Digest of Accounts of Manufacturing Establishments in the 
                                    United States
                                 and of Their Manufactures (
                                Washington
                            , 1823); "Report of 1820 Manufactures Census, Town of Harmonie [October
                            24, 1820]," in Arndt, Documentary History, II,
                        130–35.
               
                     horses, oxen, and, eventually, a steam engine.17 By 1824 Harmonist commerce reached to twenty-two states and ten foreign countries.18
            
            The 
                        New Harmony
                     general store offered its pioneer shoppers a remarkable selection of goods produced in
                    the Rappites' own fields and woodlands, mills and factories. A wide variety of fruits,
                    vegetables, and grains were available together with the meat, hides, and leather of wild and
                    domesticated animals. Feathers, quills, eggs, butter, cheese, wax, and tallow were in good supply.
                    Manufactured wares came almost exclusively from the town's six grain, hemp, oil, and saw
                    mills and the many workshops in which seventy-five Harmonist men, a dozen women, and thirty boys and
                    girls worked in 1820.19 The store carried fine woolen, cotton, and linen cloth,
                    thread, and rope. One could go there for leather shoes, gloves, boots, hats, and mittens or for
                    saddles, bridles, harnesses, wagons, carts, and plows. Harmonists' orders were filled
                    without charge, but their frontier neighbors paid prices high enough to arouse periodic
                        complaints.20 An advertisement in the 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Western Sun in May, 1819, announced that "F. Rapp, Will always have on
                    hand, and for sale, THE FIRST QUALITY OF STRONG BEER, by the Barrel,
                        at Harmony, Indiana."21 By the barrel at the store and by the
                    drink at the tavern, the Harmonists attracted a brisk business not only in beer and whiskey, which
                    they produced almost exclusively for sale, but also in wine, which they themselves enjoyed.
                    Drunkenness, however, was not tolerated within the Society or among the tavern patrons who sometimes
                    took offense at the strict Rappite enforcement of temperance.22
            
            George and Frederick Rapp became outspoken advocates of manufacturing in the 
                        United States
                    . They urged Americans to appreciate the quality of domestic goods and to purchase them
                    in preference to those produced abroad. Arguing that imports 
                  
                     17
                            Diaries of Donald MacDonald, 247; Arndt, Documentary
                            History, I, 191, 195, 196, 204, 227, 294, II, 257, 523.
                  
                     18 Unpublished survey (1976) of Harmonist trade records in files of
                            Historic 
                                New Harmony
                            , Inc., 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     19 Arndt, Documentary History, II,
                            131–33.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., I, 442; Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony
                            Society, 207, 262–64.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun, May 1, 1819. Although Harmonie (Harmony) was the official
                            name of their Indiana town, the Rappites also referred to it as Neu Harmonie (
                                New Harmony
                            ) to distinguish it from their first town, Harmony, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . See Arndt, Documentary History, I, 52, 58, 75, 79, 95, II,
                            127–29.
                  
                     22
                            Diaries of Donald MacDonald, 246; Arndt, George
                                Rapp's Harmony Society, 176.
               
                     retarded local industry and the economy of the entire country,
                    the Rappite leaders blamed the economic depression that began in 1819 mostly upon Americans who
                    bought articles made elsewhere on the assumption that they were superior to those produced at home.
                    Frederick Rapp held the national government responsible for not enacting protective tariffs. He
                    reported that manufacturing in 
                        New Harmony
                     was hurt so severely by the depression that its workshops stood almost completely idle
                    by 1821.23
            
            Nevertheless, the Utopian German colony remained economically sound during the national crisis
                    because of its solid agricultural base. Harmonist commerce, although reduced, also continued because
                    of its wide acceptance before the depression. Branch stores had been set up at the nearby towns of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana, and Albion and Shawneetown, 
                        Illinois
                    . At the more distant trading centers of Corydon, Indiana; 
                  Louisville; Pittsburgh;
                            St. Louis
               ; and 
                        New Orleans
                    , trusted agents handled Rappite business.24 The Golden Rose
                    trademark placed on Harmonist manufactures had become, in fact, a familiar and respected symbol
                    across the 
                        United States
                     and into 
                        Canada
                    , Mexico, 
                  Cuba, England, Scotland
               , the Netherlands,
                            
                  France, Switzerland
               , and 
                        Germany
                    .25 Few who used Harmonist products realized the religious
                    significance of the trademark. To most it merely meant that the high quality of the goods inside
                    could be taken for granted. To Rapp's followers it stood for God's future kingdom
                    on earth referred to as a golden rose in Martin Luther's translation of Micah 4:8.26 Of all their products the Harmonists took greatest pride in their fine cloth,
                    especially their flannel, which was said by the English settlers in Albion, 
                        Illinois
                    , to be superior even to the best they had brought from 
                        Wales
                    .27
            
            Commerce led Rapp's community into banking. The Farmers Bank of Harmony was one of the first
                    in Indiana. Free from the corruption and political involvements that plagued many other private,
                    "wildcat" banks and crippled the state-chartered 
                  
                     23 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            213, 239, 380; Arndt, Documentary History, I, 508, 602, II,
                            263–64.
                  
                     24 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            76, 127, 129, 184, 186, 208, 283, 289, 294; Arndt, Documentary History, I,
                            775, II, map facing page 80.
                  
                     25 John W. Larner, Jr., "‘Nails and Sundrie
                            Medicines’: Town Planning and Public Health in the Harmony Society,
                            1805–1840," The 
                                    Western Pennsylvania
                                 Historical Magazine, XLV (June, 1962), 119; survey of Harmonist trade
                            records.
                  
                     26 "And thou Tower of Eden, the stronghold of the daughter of
                            Zion, thy golden rose shall come, the former dominion, the Kingdom of the daughter of
                            Jerusalem." Micah 4:8.
                  
                     27 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            279; Arndt, Documentary History, II, 524.
               
                     bank at 
                        Vincennes
                    , the Rappite institution fared better than most. Frederick Rapp served as its president
                    and personally signed all notes along with cashier John L. Baker, who had Anglicized his name from
                    Langenbacher for business purposes. In 1817 Frederick and five non-Harmonists were authorized by the
                    Indiana legislature to establish branches of the 
                        Vincennes
                     bank in Posey and Gibson counties, but these never materialized. When the 
                        Vincennes
                     bank was reorganized in 1821 in an attempt to save it from the fraud and near
                    bankruptcy into which it had fallen, Frederick was named to the new board of directors. However, he
                    and the others found this bank beyond redemption from the entanglement of its own mismanagement, and
                    it was closed by court order the following year.28
            
            Failing banks, unstable currency, and severe depression helped convince the Rappite leaders that the
                    West was a poor center for business operations. But these same tenuous circumstances made other
                    frontiersmen notice the exceptional economic strength of communal 
                        New Harmony
                    . This resulted in occasional requests for loans from the Harmony Society, most of which
                    were refused. When Indiana's first governor, Jonathan Jennings, asked for $1,000
                    at 10 percent interest for his personal use, he was turned down. When the Indiana state treasurer
                    asked the Rappites for $5,000 to shore up the state itself in 1823, however, the German
                    communalists acknowledged their obligation to keep the state government solvent by granting the
                    funds at the standard 6 percent interest. 
                        New Harmony
                     was the only community in Indiana in a position to give such financial assistance.29
            
            Communally organized labor was one secret of 
                        New Harmony
                    's economic success. Advantages of this arrangement included full employment,
                    occasional rotation of jobs to avoid boredom, and the making of every task a friendly, cooperative
                    endeavor. The Rappite men possessed skills in every trade needed to build and operate a
                    nineteenth-century town. They were organized into companies under master tradesmen. The men of the
                    building trades, sawyers, stonecutters, masons, bricklayers, and carpenters, carried out the
                    assignments of their foremen as their contribution to the common cause. The 
                  
                     28 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            178, 179; John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to
                                Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, 300–13.
                  
                     29 In 1819 a court assessment set the value of 
                                New Harmony
                            's lands, buildings, and workshops at $370,000. See Arndt,
                                George Rapp's Harmony Society, 171, 172, 208.
               
                     weavers, spinners, shoemakers, tailors, blacksmiths, and
                    coopers did the same, as did the farmers, millers, meatcutters, wagonmakers, brewers, and
                    distillers. The master tradesmen directed the work and taught apprentices. When members needed hats,
                    coats, or other personal items, they applied to the foreman of their trade and received an order
                    signed by George Rapp which was honored at the store. When nonmembers were served by the blacksmith
                    or shoemaker, they paid the foreman and received a receipt from Rapp himself. Thus, common labor and
                    common funds were strictly controlled and under the jealous personal supervision of Father Rapp.30
            
            Although all able-bodied Harmonists worked, no one was intentionally overworked. Many hands and a
                    regulated schedule made daily labor as light as possible. The sound of French horns awakened the
                    communitarians each workday morning, but members made no claim to living a rigorous monastic life of
                        self-denial.31 Their appearance was much like that of present-day Amish or
                    Hutterites. Rappite men had long hair and dressed in plain blue or brown frock coats or surtouts,
                    trousers, and shoes. Rappite women wore white caps, checkered neckerchiefs, cloth gowns, and checked
                        aprons.32 The cessation of sexual relations that the group had agreed to in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     during the 1807 religious revival might have seemed ascetic to visitors, but families
                    remained together, a few children continued to be born, and Father Rapp reluctantly performed
                    several marriages at 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1817.33 More important from an economic standpoint, many women
                    whose time would have been consumed by the duties of motherhood were freed to weave, garden, and
                    labor in the fields and factories.
            If the Harmonists seemed serious, even somber, at their work, it was due as much to their native
                    background as to any religious factor. "Build, build, build and die" is a slogan
                    still used in 
                        Germany
                     today to suggest the work-oriented nature of the people of Swabia from which the
                    followers of George Rapp emigrated. Yet, these Swabian Germans also had a native love of music that
                    turned working groups into singing groups. Work became pleasure as the groups not only practiced
                    singing together but also composed and arranged both religious and secular 
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 121, 313; Arndt, Documentary History, II, 524,
                            849.
                  
                     31 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            202; Diaries of Donald MacDonald, 230.
                  
                     32
                            Diaries of Donald MacDonald, 249.
                  
                     33 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            98; Arndt, Documentary History, I, 775.
               
                     tunes to be performed for visitors and for Society
                        gatherings.34 Children under fifteen, when not in school, were employed in
                    light chores such as planting corn and pumpkins or crushing oil from peach kernels. Teenaged youth
                    were apprenticed in one of the trades. Harvest time was the grand communal occasion. Hundreds of
                    Rappite men, women, and children marched to the fields led by their own band, which often played for
                    the field hands at other times and was probably the first town band in Indiana. Inspired by the
                    music and fellowship, the Rappites were reported to harvest a hundred acres in a single day.35 This congenial situation induced Father Rapp to observe that his divinely
                    inspired community was a place 
                        where those who occupy its peaceful dwellings, are so closely united by the endearing ties of
                            friendship, confidence and love, that one heart beats in all, and their common industry
                            provides for all. Here, the members kindly assist each other, in difficulty &
                            danger, and share with each other, the enjoyments, and the misfortunes of life; one lives in
                            the breast of another, and forgets himself; all their undertakings are influenced by a
                            social spirit, glowing with noble energy, and generous feeling, and pressing forward to the
                            haven of their mutual prosperity.36
                  
                    
                
            The smooth operation of the social and economic enterprises at 
                        New Harmony
                     was due largely to the effort of John Christopher Mueller, John Baker, and Frederick
                    Eckensperger. Mueller had accompanied George Rapp to America in 1803 and had donated his medical
                    skills to the care of Society members. His knowledge of the medical qualities of herbs became so
                    well known that other experts such as Constantine Rafinesque came to Indiana to discuss his work and
                    to observe the botanical garden behind his house on Main Street. Mueller also contributed to the
                    community by directing the band, composing music, teaching school, and operating the Harmonist
                    printing press after its acquisition in 1824.37 Baker led the advance party that
                        
                  
                     34 Richard D. Wetzel, Frontier Musicians on the
                                Connoquenessing, 
                                    Wabash
                                , and 
                                    Ohio
                                : A History of the Music and Musicians of George Rapp's Harmony
                                Society, 1805–1906 (
                        Athens, Ohio
                     , 1976),
                            30–34. Rappite women serenaded Robert Owen and his son William during their visit
                            to the 
                                New Harmony
                             cotton mill in 1824 when a rainstorm temporarily interrupted the work schedule.
                            See Joel W. Hiatt, ed., The Diary of William Owen from November 10, 1824, to
                                April 20, 1825 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. IV,
                            No. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1906), 78, 89.
                  
                     35 Arndt, Documentary History, I, 626, 627; Arndt,
                                George Rapp's Harmony Society, 254, 328; Lockwood, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 22.
                  
                     36 [George Rapp], Thoughts on the Destiny of Man,
                                Particularly with Reference to the Present Times ([
                                New Harmony
                            ], 1824), 66.
                  
                     37 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            500–502; Arndt, Documentary History, I, 42, 69, 70, 78, 132,
                            178, 320, 450–54, II, 127–29; Wetzel, Frontier Musicians,
                                passim.
                  
               
                     sought out and purchased the original land for 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1814. Acting on Father Rapp's instructions, he bought sufficient territory
                    along the 
                        Wabash
                     River in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     to seal the Harmonists off from intruding neighbors and to insure their exclusive
                    control of a several-mile stretch of the river. Baker survived the malaria epidemic that filled
                    scores of unmarked graves in the 
                        New Harmony
                     cemetery during the first year of settlement to become the town's storekeeper
                    and bank cashier. In 1821 he and John Reichert were sent as emissaries to collect old debts and
                    inheritances due the Harmonists in their native Württemberg. As a result of this mission,
                    the Württemberg government established a consulate in the 
                        United States
                    .38 Eckensperger was well known to visitors as the keeper of 
                        New Harmony
                    's tavern, which also served as the inn. Within the Society he was loved as a
                    schoolteacher and composer of keyboard and vocal music.39
            
            Ultimate guidance of 
                        New Harmony
                    's development was in the trusted hands of George and Frederick Rapp. With the
                    charisma of a modern-day guru, George had been the unquestioned spiritual leader of the Harmonists
                    since their formation as a separatist group in Württemberg during the last quarter of the
                    eighteenth century. He was the patriarch and prophet of his people. With a full beard and a strong,
                    sympathetic voice and piercing blue eyes he was said to have communicated his ideas in carefully
                    thought-out sentences punctuated by appropriate gestures. After 1809 his disciples reverently called
                    him "Father."40
            
            Rapp's religious mysticism, however, was balanced by a keen insight into practical matters.
                    By vote of the men and women at Harmony, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , he held the office of president of the Harmony Society from its creation in 1805.41 Tall for a Swabian at nearly six feet and a vigorous man of fifty-six when he
                    arrived in 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1814, President Rapp possessed a broad knowledge of agriculture, mechanics, and
                    administration. He took pride in a meticulous direction of daily affairs, which fact helps account
                    for 
                        New Harmony
                    's economic and social stability. He and Frederick often could be found in
                        
                  
                     38 Arndt, Documentary History, I, 1–4,
                            17–22, 25–27; Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony
                                Society, 143–46, 179, 212–25.
                  
                     39 Arndt, Documentary History, I, 39, 40, 89, 94,
                            143; Wetzel, Frontier Musicians, 21, 32, 145.
                  
                     40 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            340–41, 492. In 1824 Donald MacDonald found George Rapp "a stout healthy
                            active old man of 67. He has a steady determined manner, but very little of that amiable
                            mildness, which a patriarchal life and benevolent principles might be expected to
                            produce." Diaries of Donald MacDonald, 230.
                  
                     41 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            220.
               
                     the fields or factories inspecting operations, demonstrating
                    methods, or simply enjoying working beside their friends.
            The elder Rapp knew how to construct buildings, develop waterpower sites, and recognize soil types.
                    From the portable greenhouse behind his 
                        New Harmony
                     mansion to the huge brick church, called the Community House, built according to his
                    design in the form of a Greek cross in 1822, he stamped his influence upon the architecture of the
                    town. He directed the drainage of the mosquito-infested lowlands around 
                        New Harmony
                     that had caused the dread malaria epidemics of 1814 and 1815. But, unlike Frederick,
                    George was forced to deal with most Americans through an interpreter because he spoke very little
                    English. Therefore, in 1805, when he adopted his faithful aide, he also made him business manager
                    for the Society. Frederick then created the efficient system by which the community's
                    activities were divided into seven departments, each with a manager appointed by Frederick and
                    directly accountable to him.42
            
            Frederick Rapp proved himself an invaluable agent for the Society. From 
                        St. Louis
                     to 
                        Philadelphia
                     and from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                    , he ably handled economic and legal business for his associates without evidence of
                    ever having taken personal advantage of their confidence or betraying their vital interests.
                    Frederick was a striking person: "a tall, rawboned, sallow complexioned, serious and plain
                    German" wearing "a small crowned hat with a large brim over long brown hair, and a
                    loose grey surtout" as one observer saw him in 1824.43 His interest in
                    design, drafting, and town planning made 
                        New Harmony
                     one of the earliest pre-planned towns in America. Influenced by the modern rectilinear
                    design used in several Württemberg cities, in scores of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     towns, including 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and in the mythical communitarian Christian republic described by Andreae in Christianopolis, Frederick drew the plan upon which 
                        New Harmony
                     was laid out by surveyors from 
                        Vincennes
                     on August 8, 1814.44 Ten wide streets intersecting at right angles
                    about a town square and rectangular lots of uniform size gave the place a distinct regularity 
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 252, 319, 328, 340; Wilson, Angel and the
                            Serpent, 15, 16. After the Count de Leon schism of 1832, discussed below, the men of
                            the Harmony Society elected twelve of their number to a Council of Elders. Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 438.
                  
                     43 Quotations from Diaries of Donald MacDonald, 247;
                            See also Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 252, 554.
                  
                     44 Paul H. Douglas, "The Material Culture of the Harmony
                            Society," 
                        
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Folklore, XXIV (Spring, 1975), 6; Arndt, Documentary
                                History, I, 26, 71.
               
                     with the most efficient use of space.45 It
                    was largely at Frederick's insistence that tables and benches were put in the orchards for
                    relaxation and meditation and that vases of flowers were placed on machines in the factories to
                    beautify the work areas. The elder Rapp's fondness for flowers and shrubs also was evident
                    in the life of the community. Near the south edge of town he had a hedge labyrinth planted so that
                    men, women, and children picking their way along its maze-like paths to the tiny circular building
                    in the center would be reminded of the difficulty of finding the meaning of life.46
            
            The political voice of the eight hundred German communalists was expressed mostly through Frederick
                    Rapp during the formative years of the state of Indiana. Fear that the Harmonists would dominate
                    local politics by voting their own interests with the unity that marked their religious and economic
                    commitments prevailed among the other citizens of Posey and Gibson counties. For this reason Baker
                    apparently was denied his rightful seat from 
                        Posey County
                    , and Frederick was the only Rappite permitted as one of four delegates from 
                        Gibson County
                     to the historic Indiana Constitutional Convention of 1816.47 At
                    Corydon, Frederick voted against the resolution to prepare a constitution and apply for statehood.
                    But once the resolution passed, he worked vigorously to make the proposed fundamental law reflect
                    the ideals of his constituency. While Frederick served on the committees that dealt with the
                    executive branch of government and the militia, his father assured him by letter that "the
                    invisible power of the Lord will not desert you in your effectiveness of reasoning wisely, also you
                    have your good protective angels who support your politics which allows your sensitive premonition
                    to sense things in advance so that you can act in a way pleasing to God and to reason, so that the
                    enemies of the righteous will not prevail after they have disgraced themselves through their own
                    lack of reason."48
            
            In the committee on the militia Frederick Rapp represented the well-known pacifist position of the
                    Harmonists. He succeeded in having Article VII of the Indiana Constitution provide that
                    conscientious objectors could pay a fine in lieu of 
                  
                     45
                            Diaries of Donald MacDonald, 245.
                  
                     46 Ross Lockridge, The Labyrinth ([
                                New Harmony
                            , Ind.], 1941).
                  
                     47 Arndt, Documentary History, I, 217; Arndt, Indiana Decade of George Rapp's Harmony Society, 17, 18.
                  
                     48 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            165–70; Arndt, Documentary History, I, 226; John B. Dillon, A History of Indiana from Its Earliest Exploration by Europeans to the Close of
                                Territorial Government in 1816 (reprint, 
                                New York
                            , 1971), 557–58.
               
                     bearing arms.49 He also supported the
                    strong statements against slavery that were written into Indiana's first Constitution.
                    Later, in 1820, the Indiana legislature selected the noted Harmonist for the commission that chose
                    the site for the permanent capital at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Although Frederick did not serve on a second commission that officially planned and
                    laid out the new town, he drew an early map of 
                        Indianapolis
                     that projected its development along the lines of 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., and that may have influenced the final design of the state capital.50
            
            If the outside world looked upon George Rapp's 
                        New Harmony
                     as an inexplicable beehive of building, producing, and selling, the Harmonists within
                    saw it as a God-given sanctuary in which to pursue Christian perfection and a well-rounded life
                    while awaiting the climax of human history in Christ's second advent. Conveniently removed
                    from the political and economic struggles beyond their community, the great majority of Rappites
                    enjoyed the tranquil security of an ethnically homogeneous communal society. Isolated from other
                    frontiersmen by language, culture, and religion, they went about their daily routine in a world
                    apart. Beyond their assigned labor they found opportunities for personal enrichment and expression.
                    All were encouraged to read, write, sing, and participate in religious services and discussions. By
                    1825 the 
                        New Harmony
                     library, composed of some 360 books either donated by Society members or purchased,
                    some in multiple copies, was one of the most extensive in the West. Its holdings included
                    literature, philosophy, science, and medicine as well as theology.51
            
            George Rapp's disciples were prodigious writers and copyists. Either as individuals or as
                    designated "companies" they produced hundreds of handwritten books that they often
                    embellished with ink and watercolor drawings. These leather-bound volumes were among the most
                    personal Harmonist possessions, and many can still be seen in the archives of Old Economy Village in
                    Ambridge, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The books contain both original prose and poetry and works such as the hymns of the
                    communitarian Baptists of the Ephrata Cloister 
                  
                     49 The Harmony Society had difficulties over the payment of fines in
                            lieu of militia duty in 
                                Pennsylvania
                             but paid them regularly without major incident in Indiana. See Arndt, Documentary History, I, 116, 143, 144, 208, II, 84, 85, 100, 159, 340;
                            Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 162.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun and General Advertizer, January 22, 1820; Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 173, 177; Arndt, Indiana
                                Decade of George Rapp's Harmony Society, 18.
                  
                     51
                            Diaries of Donald MacDonald, 230; Bole, Harmony Society,
                            89; Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 253, 290.
               
                     in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and the verse of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Friedrich von Schiller whom the
                    Rappites admired. In 1820 the Harmony Society decided to have its favorite hymns published as the
                        Harmonisches Gesangbuch, Theils Von andern Authoren, Theils neu Verfasst (Harmony Songbook Written by Early and Modern Authors).52
            
            After purchasing their own press in 1824, the Harmonists printed Eine kleine Sammlung
                        Harmonischer Lieder als die erste Probe der anfangenden Druckerey anzusehen (A
                        Small Collection of Harmonist Hymns Presented as a First Sample of Their Printing). While
                    at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Rapp divided the entire congregation into five categories according to age and sex for
                    the purpose of prose and poetry competition. From this effort 361 verses and short essays were
                    judged worthy of publication. The result was the most intimate available picture of individual
                    Rappite's feelings about religion, virtue, devotion, selflessness, and daily life and
                    labor. It appeared in 1826 as Feurige Kohlen der aufsteigenden Liebesflammen im
                        Lustspiel der Weisheit (Fiery Coals of the Ascending Flames of Love in the Joy
                        of Wisdom).53
            
            The most important book to come from the Rappite press at 
                        New Harmony
                     was the only one ever written by George Rapp and the first on philosophy printed in
                    Indiana. The Rappite leader titled it Gedanken über die Bestimung des
                        Menschen, besonders in Hinsicht der gegenwärtigen Zeit and had it translated
                    immediately into English as Thoughts on the Destiny of Man, Particularly with Reference
                        to the Present Times. Both versions appeared within months of each other in 1824 and 1825.
                    This book contained the core of Rapp's religious and social theories. In it he identified
                    "Harmonie" as the essence of God's earthly kingdom that could only be
                    attained by an unreserved pursuit of Christian perfection. In order to give his ideas the broadest
                    credibility, the Harmonist preacher made every effort to have his "Harmonie"
                    correspond to the description of the ideal "Humanitat" to which, according to the
                    systematic arguments and popular books of the contemporary German philosopher and theologian Johann
                    Herder, all human history was inevitably evolving. To make sure that there would be no discrepencies
                    between the two Utopias, Rapp copied some sections of Herder's works into his own book
                    verbatim. Then, unfortunately, 
                  
                     52
                            Harmonisches Gesangbuch, Theils Von andern Authoren, Theils neu Verfasst
                            (Allentown, Pa., 1820).
                  
                     53
                            Feurige Kohlen der aufsteigenden Leibesflammen im Lustspiel der Weisheit
                            (Oekonomie [Economy], Pa., 1826).
               
                     he concluded that his volume needed such extensive revision
                    that the English version should not be circulated.54 As a consequence, Americans
                    were denied one of their best opportunities to understand the underlying motivations of the Harmony
                    Society on the 
                        Wabash
                    .
            A comprehensive and progressive educational system was at the heart of the cultural life of Father
                    Rapp's 
                        New Harmony
                    . Its academic, vocational, and adult programs were designed to meet the peculiar moral
                    and practical, yet Utopian, needs of his ongoing religious commune.55 The system
                    was modeled after the educational ideas of Luther and Andreae. Rapp and his followers had attended
                    the vernacular free schools of Württemberg that were set up on Luther's plan in
                    the sixteenth century. These schools stressed the teaching of reading, writing, religion,
                    arithmetic, and music to produce a literate, Bible-reading citizenry for the benefit of church and
                        state.56 The pedagogical methods employed in Andreae's idyllic
                    Christianopolis appealed to the Rappite leader because of their communal and Utopian implications.
                    Andreae gave top priority to the schooling of the youth of Christianopolis. He called for a
                    meticulous selection of teachers, free coeducational state schools for children from ages six to
                    fourteen, a wide-ranging curriculum, instruction in useful trades, and the use of laboratories,
                    libraries, museums, and presses as teaching devices.57
            
            George Rapp and his associates were sincerely committed to universal education, and their system in 
                        New Harmony
                     met the high standards of Luther and Andreae in most respects. The Society's
                    Articles of Association of 1805 guaranteed each Rappite "all such instructions in church
                    and school as may be reasonably required, both for their temporal good and for their eternal
                        felicity."58 In 1815, soon after arriving at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Rapp observed that "men of learning and good moral character are very
                    desirable in this country, that the old natives 
                  
                     54 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            255–57; Arndt, Documentary History, II, 812.
                  
                     55 Donald E. Pitzer, "Education in Utopia: The 
                                New Harmony
                             Experience," in Lectures, 1976–1977: The
                                History of Education in the Middle West (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1978), 75–90.
                  
                     56 Gerald L. Gutek, A History of the Western Educational
                                Experience (
                                New York
                            , 1972), 123; Melvin R. Miller, "Education in the Harmony Society,
                            1805–1905" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Education, University of 
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1972), 1, 27, 77–80, 84.
                  
                     57 Andreae, Christianopolis, 31, 205–208.
                  
                     58 The 1805 Articles of Association are printed in full in Charles
                            Nordhoff, The Communistic Societies of the 
                                    United States
                                 From Personal Visit and Observation (
                                Dover
                             ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1966), 81–83.
               
                     might be brought to better order through them."59 He conceived education in a Utopian dimension. He wrote that "the
                    proper education of Youth, is of the greatest importance to the prosperity of any plan, for the
                    melioration of mankind."
            
                    That kind of learning, and those fashionable accomplishments, which are useless and only
                        calculated for show, should be entirely abolished, and in their stead, those true principles and
                        habits of life should be established and confirmed, which most strongly tend to unite the
                        hearts, minds & fortunes of the rising generation, & arouse their sleeping
                        faculties, for the performance of all that is truly good and great. It is ardently hoped and
                        believed that this sublime, predestinated system of Brotherly Union &
                            Social Harmony, will ere long be universally established, for the restoration of the
                        golden age, the dignity of the human character, and the happiness of man.60
               
                
            The Harmonist parochial school on Tavern Street anticipated free tax-supported public schools in
                    Indiana and most of the rest of the nation by nearly half a century. Frederick Rapp reported in 1819
                    that between eighty and one hundred children aged six to twelve were enrolled in classes held six
                    days a week from 8:00 a.m. until noon.61 A Mr. Courtney, an English visitor in
                    the same year, noted that "their school appears to be well conducted by a very respectable
                    tutor who has a large number of scholars of different ages and of both sexes; all clean, neat and
                    orderly. …"62 Orphans, young indentured servants who had the
                    option to join the Society later, and children assigned by the courts as wards of the Harmonists
                    attended this school along with the offspring of members.63
            
            True to the Lutheran tradition, the Harmonist school emphasized the Bible, catechism, and
                    instrumental and vocal music. But the curriculum was much broader than that. Students were taught
                    reading, writing, arithmetic, spelling, geography, history, natural history, drawing, and Latin,
                    German, English, and French grammar. In order to encourage the speaking of both English and German,
                    classes were conducted in the former Monday through Wednesday and in the latter the remaining three
                    school days.64 Textbooks in addition to the Lutheran Bible included the New 
                            England
                         Primer, Pilgrim's Progress, Lindley Murray's English Grammar, Oliver 
                  
                     59 Quoted in Bole, Harmony Society, 77.
                  
                     60 Rapp, Thoughts on the Destiny of Man, 95, 96.
                  
                     61 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            210; Arndt, Documentary History, I, 775.
                  
                     62 Arndt, Documentary History, I, 800.
                  
                     63 Miller, "Education in the Harmony Society,"
                            140–47.
                  
                     64 Christiana F. Knoedler, The Harmony Society: A
                                Nineteenth Century American Utopia (
                                New York
                            , 1954), 97.
               
                     Goldsmith's geography, Noah Webster's
                    spellers, ancient and modern histories, music books, and biographies of George 
                        Washington
                     and other famous men. The university-trained Mueller and innkeeper Eckensperger were
                    the principal teachers. They taught mostly by rote memorization and recitation. But writing
                    exercises in blank books and on slates and spelling bees, study periods, physical exercises, craft
                    lessons, and choral performances were also part of the instructional program. After 1817 Mueller
                    started collecting items for a Christianopolis-like museum that has been preserved in the Feast Hall
                    at Economy. Mueller and Eckensperger encouraged excellence by selecting the best exercises each week
                    for display before the entire congregation at the Sunday morning service.65
            
            The accomplishments of a few students demonstrate the effectiveness of the daily school in going
                    beyond religious indoctrination and the "three Rs" to stimulate individual and
                    cultural interests. Wallrath Weingartner joined the Society with his parents in 1805 at age ten,
                    attended the school at Harmony, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and became the most outstanding artist among the Rappites. With the other students he
                    learned to sketch flowers and birds in two dimensions with ink outline and wash colors, which was
                    the only Harmonist medium.66 Although no Rappite was permitted to make art more
                    than an avocation, Weingartner did many paintings of single subjects and completed a full-color
                    sketchbook in 1829 entitled "Ornithology or the Natural History of the Birds of the 
                        United States
                    ." In this unpublished work he portrayed sixty-seven birds from Alexander
                    Wilson's pioneering effort, American Ornithology (1808–1814),
                    which was in the Harmony Society library. Weingartner's masterpiece proved him not only a
                    flawless copyist but also an artist with keen sensitivity for selecting the finest available
                    subjects and arranging them to achieve the best effect.67
            
            Gertrude Rapp and Romelius L. Baker were also notable products of Harmonist education. Since Gertrude
                    was Father Rapp's single grandchild by his only natural son, John, who was killed in a mill
                    accident at Harmony, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in 
                  
                     65 Miller, "Education in the Harmony Society,"
                            173–77, 235, 316, 317; Bole, Harmony Society, 88, 89.
                  
                     66 Daniel B Reibel, "Graphic Arts of the Harmony
                            Society," 
                        
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Heritage, III (March, 1977), 20.
                  
                     67 Donald E. Pitzer, "Harmonist Folk Art
                            Discovered," Historic Preservation, XXIX (October-December,
                            1977), 11, 12; "Letters," Historic Preservation, XXX
                            (April-June, 1978), 47; Alexander Wilson, American Bird Engravings: All 103
                                Plates from American Ornithology (
                                New York
                            , 1975).
               
                     1812, she was the darling of the community and not to be taken
                    as a typical Rappite girl. Nonetheless, it is apparent that her school experiences prepared her to
                    engage in a broad range of activities. She sang soprano in a girls' quartet; played the
                    pianoforte in the orchestra; and, together with Rapp's daughter, Rosina, studied English at
                    the Shaker West Union settlement near 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1816. Gertrude also made paintings of her pet elk and other wildlife and directed
                    the silk production at Economy.68 Romelius Baker, John's brother,
                    showed such promise in economics that Father Rapp chose him to assist Frederick at 
                        New Harmony
                     and to learn "Welt Weiszheit" (worldly wisdom). Romelius was elected
                    a trustee to manage the Society's business affairs when Frederick died suddenly in 1834.
                    Although his growing authority and prestige inside and outside the community eventually aroused the
                    jealousy of the aging George Rapp, it was Romelius who succeeded the venerable leader as president
                    of the Society when Rapp died in 1847. Baker gave responsible direction to the declining numbers of
                    Rappites until his own death in 1868.69
            
            The vocational program that followed completion of formal school at age fourteen gave each young
                    person the training to fill a productive place in the communal economy. Each teenager was
                    apprenticed to a skilled tradesman within the Society. The young men could choose any of the large
                    variety of trades represented by the Harmonist craftsmen, but the young women were restricted to
                    sewing, weaving, and spinning as advised in Christianopolis.
               70
            
            Adult education and relaxation took the forms of reading, writing, studying language and arithmetic,
                    meeting for religious instruction and discussion, and, especially, gardening and music. Music
                    lessons had been available to everyone in the Harmony Society from the beginning, but it was at 
                        New Harmony
                     that music first became an important part of the educational program. Mueller and
                    Eckensperger gave students music books with exercises that they had copied or composed themselves.
                    Music lessons progressed from the study of scale degree names to writing and singing in two, three,
                    and four parts. The 
                  
                     68 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            119, 251, 347; Arndt, Documentary History, I, 230, II, 575–77;
                            Gertrude's drawing of her pet elk faces page 304 in volume II.
                  
                     69 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            passim; Arndt, Documentary History, I, 143, 208, 663–65,
                            II, passim; Arndt, George Rapp's Successors and
                                Material Heirs, passim.
                  
                  
                     70 Miller, "Education in the Harmony Society," 79,
                            85; Andreae, Christianopolis, 260.
               
                     Harmonists' love of choral music resulted in fine
                    congregational singing, small group performances, and the copying and composition of hymns that
                    culminated in the publication of A Small Collection of Harmonist Songs in 1824.
                    Three of the Society's favorite songs were "Durch Zerfallne Kirchen
                    Fenster" ("Through Fallen Church Windows"), "Es Blüht
                    ein Blümlein" ("There Blooms a Flower"), and "Herr,
                    Führe Mich " ("Lord Lead Me") by Mueller. The six annual
                    festivals of the Society were the most important occasions for singing the anthem-like compositions
                    called "odes." In addition to the traditional Christmas, Easter, and Pentecost
                    observances, festival days included Harmoniefest on February 15, to commemorate
                    the date in 1805 when the Articles of Association were signed; Erntefest (Harvest
                    Festival) in early August; and Liebesmahl (Love Feast), which was the Rappite
                    observation of the Lord's Supper late in October.71
            
            Instrumental music was taught from well-known method books by C.P.E. Bach, Leopold Mozart, August E.
                    Mueller, and Frederick Kauer. The 
                        New Harmony
                     band played at church services and on Saturday evenings from the tower balcony of the
                    brick church. The band also entertained at the Fourth of July feasts at which the arrival of the
                    first boatload of Harmonists at 
                        Baltimore
                     on July 4, 1804, was remembered and at which nearby Indiana neighbors were sometimes
                    honored guests. In 1817 the Society purchased a piano and was considering the installation of a pipe
                    organ in the newly built brick church just before the decision to move back to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1824. More than a dozen Harmonists young and old played in the 
                        New Harmony
                     orchestra that gained recognition in Niles Weekly Register and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana Gazette after a concert for their Indiana neighbors in October, 1822.72
            
            The cultural, religious, and organizational dimensions of Harmonist life embodied a forward-looking
                    conception of the rights of women. Rappite women enjoyed opportunities and privileges well beyond
                    most of their early nineteenth-century sisters. As partners in 
                        New Harmony
                    's communistic organization, they had the same property rights as their
                    husbands. Although no Rappite women held an office in the Harmony Society (as did eldresses in the
                    Shaker hierarchy), they did vote 
                  
                     71 Wetzel, Frontier Musicians, 23, 24, 30,
                            150–52; Arndt, Documentary History, II, 552, 564.
                  
                     72 Wetzel, Frontier Musicians, 23, 25–29;
                            Arndt, Documentary History, I, 244, 258, 292, 302, 310, 311, 515, II, 454,
                            569, 639; Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 113, 246, 264,
                            348; Donald E. Pitzer and Josephine M. Elliott, 
                        
                                    New Harmony
                                's Fourth of July Tradition (
                                New Harmony
                            , Ind., 1976), 5.
               
                     in elections to determine which men would serve. Whether single
                    females or mates in celibate marriages, they had control over their own bodies. They had the same
                    right as men to leave their spouses or the Society itself, although no instances of such were
                    recorded while at 
                        New Harmony
                    .73 Even though Harmonist women were expected to perform the
                    customary household tasks, they could be found in their long dresses, aprons, and bonnets sewing,
                    weaving, and spinning in the workshops, cultivating in the gardens, and harvesting grain in the
                    fields. Unlike most women in the 
                        United States
                     at that time, they were assured of schooling and vocational training for their children
                    of both sexes and lifelong learning opportunities for themselves. Books, newspapers, instrumental
                    and choral music instruction and performances, religious services, discussion sessions, and evening
                    classes in English and arithmetic were available for their intellectual and social stimulation.74
            
            Harmonist women had entered as freely as their husbands into the consensus on celibacy during the
                    religious fervor of the religious revival in 1807. At the urging of their patriarchal leader they
                    had come to believe that sexual activity had no more place than private property in
                    Christ's coming kingdom. Christine Rapp, George's wife, had set the example by
                    agreeing with her husband to suspend sexual relations before they emigrated from 
                        Germany
                    .75
            
            Justification for the departure from customary marital relations was drawn from the writings of
                    seventeenth-century German mystic Jakob Boehme, from Father Rapp's own concept of universal
                    harmony, and from selected biblical passages. From Boehme came the idea that man, created in
                    God's image, had had no physical sex organs before he sinned in the Garden of Eden and that
                    he would be restored to that pure, God-like condition after Christ's return. The
                    Harmonists' self-imposed celibacy was, therefore, an imitation of that perfect state that
                    very soon was to be a reality once again. Father Rapp stressed chastity as an important step toward
                    the universal harmony that had been lost in Adam's fall, which had not only separated human
                    beings into male and female but had also effected their alienation from the Creator. The sacred task
                    of the Harmony Society, as Rapp intended its name to imply, was the restoration of this lost cosmic
                    harmony in anticipation of the millennium. 
                  
                     73 Of the thirteen members reported to have left the Society while at 
                                New Harmony
                            , all were men probably seeking wives or their fortunes. See Bole, Harmony Society, 10.
                  
                     74 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            332–33, 555.
                  
                     75
                            Ibid., 98.
               
                     Celibacy was thus an element in the process of spiritual
                        purification.76 Biblical passages that had led other communal groups to
                    abandon sex helped convince the Harmonists also. Jesus, who himself never married, proclaimed that
                    "there be eunuchs, which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's
                    sake" (Matt. 19:12). 
                        St. Paul
                     recommended that because of the nearness of Christ's second advent it was
                    better to remain unmarried (I Cor. 7:27). The Book of Revelation (14:14) indicated that the 144,000
                    saints redeemed from the earth "are they which were not defiled with women; for they are
                    virgins."
            Outsiders often misunderstood the reasons for Harmonist celibacy and overemphasized it as the central
                    concern of Rappite life. Lord Byron in Canto XV of Don Juan tried to tie Rappite
                    sexual restraint to a Malthusian desire to limit population growth.
            
                    When Rapp the Harmonist embargo'd marriage
                    In his harmonious settlement—(which flourishes
                    Strangely enough as yet without miscarriage,
                    Because it breeds no more mouths than it nourishes,
                    Without those sad expenses which disparage
                    What Nature naturally most encourages)—
                    Why call'd he "Harmony" a state sans wedlock?
                    Now here I have got the preacher at a dead lock.
                    Because he either meant to sneer at Harmony
                    Or marriage, by divorcing them thus oddly.
                    But whether reverend Rapp learn'd this in 
                            Germany
                        
               
                    Or no, 'tis said his sect is rich and godly,
                    Pious and pure, beyond what I can term any
                    Of ours, although they propagate more broadly.
                    My objection's to his title, not his ritual,
                    Although I wonder how it grew habitual.
                    But Rapp is the reverse of zealous matrons,
                    Who favour, malgre Malthus, generation—
                    Professors of that genial art, and patrons
                    Of all the modest part of propagation;
                    Which after all at such a desperate rate runs,
                    That half its produce tends to emigration,
                    That sad result of passions and potatoes
                    Two weeds which pose our economic Catos.77
               
                
            When the September, 1819, issue of the 
                  Harrisburg,
                            Pennsylvania
               , Morgenröthe carried a report that sex in marriage and childbearing were
                    forbidden in the Harmony Society and that no more than two children had been born in 
                        New Harmony
                    , Frederick Rapp responded bluntly. It "is false and a lie 
                  
                     76
                            Ibid., 95–97.
                  
                     77 George Gordon, Lord Byron, Don Juan (
                                New York
                            , 1949), 465–66.
               
                     and an erroneous statement which has been spread among the
                    public for the last 12 to 15 years," he asserted, "and which is kept in
                    circulation still by people without religion and reason, although our school, which always contains
                    from 80 to 100 children from 6 to 12 years of age and still contains such, contradicts this
                    statement sufficiently." Although the relatively stable child population of 
                        New Harmony
                     might have been explained in part by the influx of new families, orphans, and
                    indentured servants, Frederick unwittingly prophesied the schism that later rent the Rappite
                    membership when he added that "every reasonable person and one who knows human nature would
                    easily see that a society of about 800 people could not live under a law of that kind and live in
                    peace and unity for so many years." His explanation of this Utopian situation was that
                    "the Harmony Society consists only of people who live the religion of Jesus practically and
                    who pursue sanctification. Among these there are some of both sexes who have so advanced in
                    sanctification and who by means of the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ and His vicarious
                    atonement have been so ennobled in their virtue, that they of their own free will have given up
                    carnal intercourse and devote themselves fully to prepare for Christ and His Kingdom, which kind of
                    people have always existed and still exist, although their number has always been
                        small."78
            
            If not universally adhered to over a long period of time, celibacy nevertheless was a unifying factor
                    in the Harmonist community immediately after its adoption. Only under peer pressure and Father
                    Rapp's insistence on the chaste ideal did it become a divisive and destructive force within
                    the group.79 Some members, especially among the younger generation, eventually
                    found abstinence from sex an unreasonable expectation. A few of these dissenters withdrew from the
                    Society from time to time, and about 175 left in a mass exodus from Economy, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in 1832.80 Given the facts that the Harmonists never made any
                    concerted effort to attract American members and that their celibate reputation often kept recent
                    German immigrants from joining, they, in effect, staked the very survival of their beloved Harmony
                    Society on the beginning of the millennium in their own lifetimes. Since this event did not occur,
                    Rapp's community paid the customary toll for failure to produce sufficient offspring to
                    perpetuate an organization 
                  
                     78 Arndt, Documentary History, I, 775.
                  
                     79 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            358.
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., 449–546.
               
                     and a faith. Extinction was the price of celibacy. The demise
                    of the Harmony Society came in 1916, as the end had come eventually to other communitarians who had
                    chosen this sexual discipline, notably the men of the Woman in the Wilderness commune near
                            
                  Germantown, Pennsylvania
               , in the eighteenth century and later the Ephrata Cloister
                    Baptists and all but about a dozen Shakers.81
            
            Before this fate could overtake his Utopian dream, however, George Rapp and his associates weathered
                    many other difficulties and wrote their accomplishments into American history. They moved from
                    Harmony, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , to 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1814 amid great expectations. Literally thousands of pietists were expected to join
                    from Württemberg, and grape culture and river trade were to flourish. Father Rapp told
                    his disciples that the move to the remote Indiana frontier would fulfill the passage in which the
                    Sunwoman was "given two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness,
                    into her place where she is nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, from the place of the
                    serpent" (Rev. 12:14). After becoming established in 
                        New Harmony
                    , the trusted leader announced that his Society as the Sunwoman would reach the zenith
                    of her power after 1822 during the Era of the Golden Rose of Micah 4:8, and he directed that a rose
                    be carved in the stone lintel above the door of the large cruciform church built in that year.82
            
            However, the reasons for escaping into the wilderness and the early promise of the frontier location
                    had already begun to disappear. Although several hundred joined the Society at 
                        New Harmony
                    , German emigration fell far below Rapp's expectations. The
                    Württemberg government had liberalized its treatment of religious dissenters, and
                    Swedenborgian Johann Jung-Stilling had put forward a new biblical interpretaion which suggested that
                    the prophetic flight of the Sunwoman would be to Russia, not to the 
                        United States
                    . 
                        New Harmony
                    's climate, excellent for mosquitoes that caused malaria, was not favorable for
                    vineyards. Its steaming summers proved debilitating to the people. The 
                        Wabash
                     River was indeed serviceable for trade, but markets were far away, postal service
                    uncertain, 
                  
                     81 Arndt, George Rapp's Successors and Material
                                Heirs, 318–56; Mark Holloway, Heavens on Earth: Utopian
                                Communities in America, 1680–1880 (rev. ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1966), 37–43, 44–52; Richard L. Williams, "The
                            Shakers, Now Only 12, Observe Their 200th Year," Smithsonian, V
                            (September, 1974), 40–48.
                  
                     82 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            143–63; Karl J. R. Arndt, "Luther's Golden Rose at 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana," Concordia Historical Institute Quarterly,
                            XLIX (Fall, 1976), 112–22.
               
                     frontier banks and currency unstable, and business tenuous at
                    best. Even the frontier neighbors, except for the English-Americans at Albion, 
                        Illinois
                    , proved less amiable than those of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     who were more familiar with German culture.83
            
            Resentment of nearby settlers seemed to focus more on the economic and political power of the Harmony
                    Society, however, than on its cultural differences and religious sectarianism. In the early days at 
                        New Harmony
                     George Rapp's life was threatened by frontiersmen who conspired to demand high
                    wages for helping clear the land.84 As Rapp's town developed its
                    monopoly on regional business, the high prices charged at the general store became a source of
                    constant complaint.85 The Harmonists owned the only landing on the 
                        Wabash
                     within miles and had intentionally purchased the strategically located Cut-Off Island
                    just downstream; thus, the Society controlled shipping on the river. In 1818 twenty-one 
                        Posey County
                     men brought these and other grievances to the attention of the Indiana General
                    Assembly. Their petition asked that the indispensable 
                        New Harmony
                     mill, at which they claimed grinding fees were exorbitant, be declared public property.
                    When this plea was granted in 1820, Frederick Rapp protested, and the community interpreted the
                    state coercion characteristically as persecution of the cause of Jesus.86 In the
                    meantime, on January 20 and 21, 1820, local aggravation over economic and other matters had burst
                    into physical attacks upon several Harmonists and a two-hour riot in the streets of the village.87
            
            Since the Harmony Society could dominate local elections by voting with one mind, its strength was
                    feared and its support often courted. As early as May, 1816, George Rapp was urged by a
                    representative to the Indiana constitutional convention, Alexander Devin, to let his single vote
                    represent all of the adult males of 
                        New Harmony
                    . Otherwise, Devin predicted, the voters of the communal village would determine every
                    election result, reap the wrath of the other county residents, and possibly endanger the enforcement
                    of their own civil liberties.88 After the ballots from 
                        New Harmony
                     were destroyed during one county election, the Rappites decided not to vote in 
                  
                     83 Arndt, Indiana Decade of George Rapp's
                                Harmony Society, 15–16; Arndt, George Rapp's
                                Harmony Society, 225, 292, 294.
                  
                     84 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            157.
                  
                     85
                            Ibid., 262; Arndt, Documentary History, I, 776.
                  
                     86 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            261–65; Arndt, Documentary History, I, 78, 216–17,
                            440–43.
                  
                     87 Arndt, Documentary History, II, 9–13.
                  
                     88
                            Ibid., 216–17.
               
                     the next. Afterward they received a curious letter from one
                    successful candidate thanking them for abstaining and inviting them to present their concerns for
                    his attention.89
            
            Ratliff Boon of Boonville successfully courted the Harmonist vote for state senator in 1818 and won.
                    Later, in 1821, when he was lieutenent governor, he pleaded with George Rapp to deliver the Society
                    vote to a Judge Thomas Givens for the Indiana Senate seat. "I am confident," wrote
                    Boon, "that the present Election will depend Entirely on your votes, you have the power to
                    Elect who you please, many of the people in the Country say, it is not worth their while to vote,
                    for Harmonie can Elect Just who they please. …" Boon boldly requested that the
                    Rappites either divide their votes equally Givens and his opponent, Elisha Harrison, or "be
                    silent in the Election as to the senator" since "you have already a number of
                    Enimies in consequence of your decided power to regulate Elections. …" The men
                    of 
                        New Harmony
                    , however, ignored Boon's advice and voted for Harrison; Givens lost.90
            
            Despite the increasing political and economic prowess of his holy community, George Rapp became
                    uneasy as the depression following 1819 worsened and his disciples grew restless awaiting the
                    promised millennium. He sensed that if his authoritarian leadership and the vitality of his Harmony
                    Society were to survive, another migration was necessary. But he knew it would not be easy to
                    persuade his followers, who already had built two complete towns, to abandon the comforts of the
                    second to erect yet a third. He tried to motivate them with the idea that a move back to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     would be analogous to God's calling Abraham into a new land where his
                    descendants would become a great nation through which the whole earth would be blessed.91 By March, 1824, when the decision to sell the beautiful town on the 
                        Wabash
                     had been made, Father Rapp confided to Frederick that "this time it is not so
                    accidental that we have such courage for the move."92 He later told
                    Robert Owen, the wealthy manufacturer and social reformer of New Lanark, 
                        Scotland
                    , who purchased 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1825 for $150,000 to found his own secular communal experiment, 
                  
                     89 Arndt, Indiana Decade of George Rapp's
                                Harmony Society, 19.
                  
                     90 Arndt, Documentary History, II,
                            253–54, 266–67, 269–70. Judge Thomas Givens, having lost by
                            only forty-eight votes to Harrison, contested the election results on the grounds that some
                            of the Rappite men who voted had not yet been naturalized as citizens. Although this claim
                            may have been correct, the Indiana Senate Committee on Elections confirmed the seating of
                            Harrison. Ibid., 270; Indiana, Senate Journal
                            (1821–1822), 17.
                  
                     91 Genesis 12:1–2; Arndt, George
                                Rapp's Harmony Society, 309.
                  
                     92 Arndt, Documentary History, II, 812.
               
                     that it was sufficient to explain the Harmonist move by the
                    fact that every ten years the Society simply looked for a new place to do some good.93
            
            Economic advantage and religious utopianism, however, were apparently uppermost in the minds of the
                    Rappite leaders. The location they chose for their last and most elaborate town was situated ideally
                    for manufacturing and commerce a few miles down the 
                        Ohio
                     River from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     at present-day Ambridge. By calling their new settlement Economy, they indicated the
                    basic direction of their thought. The name also fit well with George Rapp's latest vision
                    of the "divine Economy" which he discussed in his Thoughts on the
                        Destiny of Man, written during the weeks of reflection and relative inactivity just before
                    leaving 
                        New Harmony
                    .94 The divine Economy was the perfect world order of peace and
                    plenty to be brought about by the communal endeavors of Christians united in brotherly love. Rapp
                    maintained that his Harmony Society already had become the practical demonstration of the
                    feasibility of this revolutionary development. In his words it was a "Noble Assylum! where
                    brethren live together in unity and love, & form upon Earth, a Kingdom of God."
                    Therefore, at Economy, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the Society could be expected to "produce a heaven upon earth-A
                        true HARMONY."95
            
            The village of Economy fulfilled much of the economic promise of Rapp's vision but fell far
                    short of the unity and love that were to bring about the Kingdom of God on earth. Ironically,
                    Economy became the arena in which the Society's latent personality conflicts, power
                    struggles, and millennial frustrations as well as Father Rapp's improprieties and errors in
                    judgment surfaced and took their divisive toll. The Hildegard affair and the Count de Leon schism
                    produced the turning points in the history of the community.
            The aging, celibate Father Rapp permitted himself to become enamored with the beautiful, talented,
                    and potentially seductive Hildegard Mutschler, who was born in the Harmony Society in 1806. She
                    became his companion, confidante, and laboratory assistant in the late 1820s to the scandal of the
                    other members and the disgust of Frederick. When she fell in love with Jacob Klein, the jealous
                    Father Rapp unjustly cast him out of the fold, and a few other members withdrew in protest.
                    Hildegard repeatedly betrayed her leader's confidence 
                  
                     93 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            316.
                  
                     94
                            Ibid., 308–10, 354, 589; Arndt, Documentary
                                History, II, 812.
                  
                     95 Rapp, Thoughts on the Destiny of Man,
                            63–66.
               
                     and lied to him about her illicit love affairs until she ran
                    away from Economy with a young Society business agent, Conrad Feucht, in June, 1829. Instead of
                    accepting her departure and recovering his self-control and the dignity of his office, Rapp
                    discredited himself by publicly condemning his most faithful followers for prejudice against her and
                    demanding that they pray for her return.
            The Hildegard episode spread disillusion among the congregation, caused a few secessions, and broke
                    the filial bond between Frederick and his father. In a deeply emotional, impeccably argued letter
                    written at midnight on September 2, 1829, Frederick recounted the facts of the Hildegard affair for
                    his father: the unreasonable conduct of the Harmonist leader, the great internal damage done to the
                    membership, and the blight upon the community's reputation at large.96
                    Frederick had lost confidence in George Rapp. He could no longer be his alter ego.
                    Frederick's early death at age fifty-nine in 1834 following the de Leon schism robbed the
                    Harmony Society of one of its most faithful servants and was undoubtedly a product of these tragic
                        events.97
            
            After the Hildegard affair Father Rapp tried to recover the community's respect for his
                    leadership. He worked feverishly but unsuccessfully in his laboratory to reaffirm his divine
                    sanction by transforming base metal into gold. In the meantime a challenger arrived at Economy.
                    Bernhard Mueller was a brash recent German immigrant who easily gained a following among
                    Rapp's pietists by claiming to possess the philosopher's stone by which he alone
                    could produce precious metal and by asserting to be the Count de Leon (the Lion of Judah) with
                    divine right to supplant Rapp's millennial leadership. The competition that ensued between
                    Rapp and Mueller made a mockery of their doctrines and a travesty of the name and purpose of the
                    Harmony Society. In 1832 one third of the Society's members, about 175 in all, including
                    the indispensable Christopher Mueller, left to follow the count's pseudoscience and
                    flamboyant millennialism. Under the circumstances George and Frederick Rapp made a generous
                    settlement of $105,000 with the departing members who organized the New 
                        Philadelphia
                     Society and soon spent the money in two short-lived communal ventures at Phillipsburgh, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and Grande Ecore, 
                        Louisiana
                    .98
            
            
               
                  96 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                        416–48. Frederick's letter is printed on pages 429–31.
               
                  97
                        Ibid., 547–54.
               
                  98
                        Ibid., 449–546; Bole, Harmony Society, 10. Four
                        hundred two adults remained loyal to Father Rapp and signed a new constitution in 1834 which
                        granted
            
            
            After the traumatic scandal and leadership crisis of the 1829–1832 period, the Harmony
                    Society began an irreversible decline although its material wealth increased phenomenally. Father
                    Rapp and his loyalists held ever more tenuously to their fading millennial hope. The
                    community's dismay that their mentor could not make good his consistent promise to deliver
                    it into Christ's presence was best said by the eighty-nine year old Rapp himself in his
                    dying hour. "If I did not so fully believe that the Lord has designed me to place our
                    society before his presence in the land of Canaan, I would consider this my last."99 Two decades after Rapp's death, which occurred on August 7, 1847,
                    his aging Christian communists had been reduced to 146 in number; had shifted their economic
                    emphasis from communal agriculture, manufacturing, and commerce to capitalistic investment in oil
                    wells, pipelines, and railroads; and had begun to multiply their Society's wealth into the
                        millions.100
            
            The German immigrants who built 
                        New Harmony
                     did not achieve perfection or realize their earthly Utopia, but their dream drove them
                    across an ocean and sustained them for a century. Their Harmony Society became prominent in the
                    American communal tradition. They contacted and influenced many of the other communal groups of the
                    nineteenth century. Although George Rapp established but one communitarian society, he believed that
                    small, voluntary associations of Christians working industriously under strong leaders would
                    constitute the perfect world order of the future. Therefore, it was natural for his Society to
                    emulate the Ephratans; to interact with the Shakers, Zoarites, Mormons, Keilites, Icarians, and
                    Hutterites; to provide a communistic model and a ready-made town for the Owenites; and to help to
                    inspire the founding of Brook Farm and Fruitlands.101
            
            
               him the administrative powers held by Frederick before his death. Arndt, George
                            Rapp's Harmony Society, 555. When the Count de Leon died after a short while
                        at Grande Ecore, many of the former Harmonists found a new leader in the eccentric Dr. William
                        Keil and helped build his noncelibate communal villages at Bethel, 
                            Missouri
                         (1844–1880), and 
                     Aurora,
                                Oregon
                   (1856–1881).
                        Holloway, Heavens on Earth, 161–65.
               
                  99 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 599.
               
                  100
                        Ibid., 603; Bole, Harmony Society, 33; Arndt, George Rapp's Successors and Material Heirs, 61–84.
               
                  101 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 76,
                        167, 170, 188, 198, 251, 253, 254, 272, 273, 392, 541, 542, 569, 610; Arndt, George
                            Rapp's Successors and Material Heirs, 40, 41, 61, 89–91,
                        129–40; Arndt, Documentary History, I, II, passim; Arndt, Indiana Decade of George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                        1. Four Shakers from West Union visited 
                            New Harmony
                         in 1816 to explore the possibility of a Shaker-Harmonist merger. This proved
                        impossible because George Rapp thought the Shakers too shallow in their spiritual understanding,
                        and the Shakers concluded that the Harmony Society was still too small and backward. Arndt, Documentary History, I, 228, 229.
            
            
            The Harmony Society became one of the finest examples of the nine separate German-speaking communal
                    groups which composed the largest distinctly ethnic element in this country's Utopian
                    history, from the Woman in the Wilderness in 1694 to the Hutterite colonies of today. The Harmonists
                    may have been more commercially aggressive, systematic in town planning, and, except for the
                    Ephratans and the men of the Woman in the Wilderness, more intensely millennialistic and culturally
                    active than the others. But their charismatic leadership, pietistic orientation, community of
                    property, autocratic yet curiously democratic government, agricultural and manufacturing
                    enterprises, divisive struggles for power, long life, and, with the exception of the Hutterites,
                    eventual demise characterized all of the German-American communal societies.
            The three towns built by the Harmonists exemplify the application of German material culture to the
                    American environment. At Harmony, 
                        New Harmony
                    , and Economy (Ambridge), Rappite churches, dwellings, granaries, vaulted wine cellars,
                    gardens, cemeteries, tools, and handicarfts can be seen as enduring features of this German
                    heritage. Original Harmonist half-log structures built of standardized, precut timbers marked by
                    Roman numerals like those of Württemberg and utilizing pugging (boards daubed with mud
                    and wrapped with straw for insulation and fire-proofing) have been preserved and restored.102 The importance of each Harmonist town has been recognized by its inclusion
                    in the National Register of Historic Places.
            The Harmonist story reveals much about the early American republic. It shows the difficulty involved
                    in obtaining land grants from the federal government. It demonstrates the solidarity and economic
                    potential of corporate bodies conducting business in a free enterprise system. Like the developing
                    national economy, that of the Harmony Society moved from agriculture to manufacturing and the
                    beginnings of investment capitalism in oil and railroading. The Harmonist experience illustrates the
                    extent of American religious toleration to pacifists in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     during and following the War of 1812 and in Indiana during the writing of the first
                    Constitution and thereafter.103 The record also shows marks made by the
                    Harmonists 
                  
                     102 Donald E. Pitzer, "The Harmonist Heritage of Three
                            Towns," Historic Preservation, XXIX (October-December, 1977),
                            5–10; Ralph G. Schwartz, "Action for the Public Interest: An
                            Environmental Approach to Historic Preservation," Lake Forest Academy
                                Antique Show, 1977 (Lake Forest, Ill., 1977), 24–31; Charles M. Stotz,
                            "Threshold of the Golden Kingdom: The Village of Economy and Its
                            Restoration," in Ian M. G. Quimby, ed., Winterthur Portfolio 8
                            (Winterthur, Del., 1973), 133–69; Larner, "‘Nails and Sundrie
                            Medicines,’" 134–36.
                  
                     103 Arndt, Documentary History, I, 116, 125, 143,
                            144, 183, 184, 609, 634–36, 657, 658, 698–700, II, 84, 85, 100, 159,
                            331, 340.
               
                     upon the nation. Their well-preserved German ways were a
                    cultural yeast in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and Indiana and as far away as the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific coast as their
                    schismatics moved across the nation. The strong beer, whiskey, wine, and excellent flannel and
                    woolen cloth that issued from Rappite breweries, distilleries, and mills were enjoyed by uncounted
                    Americans. And throughout its existence the Harmony Society provided a conspicuous alternative by
                    which the general society could test the validity of its own institutions.
            Not the least of the Rappite achievements had occurred during their 
                        New Harmony
                     decade. The Harmonists helped open the West. Their twenty-thousand-acre communal estate
                    with its remarkable town, mills, and workshops contributed to the economic development of Indiana.
                    Their counsel and talent aided in the formation of the state and the selection of the site and quite
                    possibly the design for the permanent capital at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They provided loans to the fledgling state. They played a significant part in local
                    politics, usually contributing in proportion to their influence.104 Their music,
                    school, library, and publications raised the cultural level of the region. Their carefully planned
                    village was a blueprint for other communities, especially the English 
                        Prairie
                     settlement at Albion, 
                        Illinois
                    , after 1817.105
            
            George Rapp could look back with great satisfaction on all these accomplishments on the afternoon of
                    May 24, 1824, as he sailed away to continue his Utopian adventure with the first contingent of the
                    seven hundred Harmonists moving to Economy. George Schaal, one of the faithful on the boat with him,
                    had written their benediction on the staircase in Dormitory Number 2: "On the twenty-fourth
                    of May, 1824, we have departed. Lord, with Thy great help and goodness, in body and soul protect
                    us." With one last salute from the town cannon that had been used so carelessly the year
                    before to celebrate the arrival of the first steamboat, Father Rapp and his party moved slowly out
                    of sight down the 
                        Wabash
                     and were gone.106
            
            
               
                  104 In 1817 the Rappites built the 
                            Posey County
                         courthouse on their own land at 
                            Springfield
                        . See Arndt, Documentary History, I, 786, 787; four architectural
                        sketches of the courthouse follow page 758.
               
                  105
                        Ibid., 382–84, 457, 458, II, passim; Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 202, 268, 269. Morris Birkbeck,
                        cofounder of Albion with George Flower, helped bring 
                            New Harmony
                         to international attention by his Notes on a Journey in America from
                            the Coast of 
                                Virginia
                             to the Territory of 
                                Illinois
                            
                   (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1817).
               
                  106 The last direct contact of the Harmonists with 
                            New Harmony
                         came in the 1870s. In 1874 Jonathan Lenz was sent from Economy to purchase the
                        brick church they had built in 1822 and which had since served the town as a ballroom, theater,
                        and pork-packing plant. Lenz had all but the east wing razed and the bricks used to erect the
                        five-foot-high wall that still protects the unmarked graves in the Rappite cemetery. Lockwood,
                            
                     
                                New Harmony
                             Movement, 36; Wilson, Angel and the Serpent, 189.
            
            
            
               Courtesy 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Historical and Museum Commission, Old Economy Village, Ambridge, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        .
            
            
            GEORGE RAPP
            
            In May, 1826, Duke Bernhard of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach visited Economy, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    —having been to 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, the previous month—and described George Rapp, founder and
                    spiritual leader of the Harmony Society: 
                        The elder Rapp is a large man, seventy years old, whose powers age seems not in the least to
                            have diminished; his hair is gray, but his blue eyes overshadowed by strong brows, are full
                            of life and fire; his voice is strong, and full of expression; by his strange gestures he
                            knows how to give a special emphasis to that which he says. He speaks a Swabian dialect,
                            intermixed with a little English.1
                  
                    
                
            The two existing portraits of Rapp are both questioned by scholars. The picture opposite is painted
                    on wood and identified by Christiana Knoedler in her memoirs of life in the Harmony Society.2 Tradition says that Rapp went to 
                  Warsaw, New York
               , in 1830 in
                    search of merino sheep. He found what he wanted at the farm of a Major General Staunton, a veteran
                    of the War of 1812. Staunton and his son Pheneas accompanied Rapp back to Economy and purchased
                    Holland sheep for themselves. Pheneas painted Rapp's picture en route. The
                    general's granddaughter, Emily A. Peck, sold it to the Society in 1894. In the Harmonie Herald, April, 1970, however, Daniel B Reibel states that the portrait was done
                    by an apprentice cattle drover who became an artist.3
            
            The copperplate print of Rapp, below, serves as the frontispiece for Ernst Ludwig Brauns'
                        Amerika und die moderne Bölkerwanderung (Potsdam, 1833).
            
            
               
                  1 Karl J. R. Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                            1785–1847 (rev. ed., 
                            Rutherford
                        , N.J., 1965), 340.
               
                  2 Christiana F. Knoedler, The Harmony Society: A Nineteenth
                            Century American Utopia (
                            New York
                        , 1954), preceding p. 37.
               
                  3
                        Harmonie Herald, April, 1970. This newsletter is published by the Harmonie
                        Associates, Inc., Old Economy, Ambridge, 
                            Pennsylvania
                        .
            
            
            
               Courtesy Old Economy Village and Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        . Inc.
            
            WEINGARTNER MAP
            
            Map of 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, drawn from memory by Wallrath Weingartner in 1832, seven or eight years after
                    the Harmony Society had returned to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Though other contemporaneous maps exist, it is the only one which depicts the physical
                    appearance of the buildings in 1824. The photograph above is of the original map with several
                    impaired sections restored.
            
            HARMONIST HOUSE CONSTRUCTION
            
            The development of house construction in 
                        New Harmony
                     reflects the limitations of building equipment, materials, and manpower. Two distinct
                    phases are evident in the building and growth of the town. Generally speaking, between 1814 and
                    1819, most of the structures were of log. They were built principally with squared timbers but
                    sometimes of round unhewn logs, mainly poplar or oak. The corners were cut and shaped to interlock
                    with reverse angles, thus preventing their pulling apart. The space between the logs was chinked
                    with small wood shims and a clay grouting mixed with straw and river shells. Roofs were framed with
                    rafters and mortised and tenoned at the peak. Walls were erected initially with no openings. Windows
                    were cut when glass and sash became available. Some chimneys were built for fireplaces; however,
                    most were constructed for stoves that were used for heating and food preparation, though not baking,
                    as there were community bake ovens on each block. To control vermin, interiors of the later log
                    houses were whitewashed and floors scrubbed with sand, lye, and hot water.
            The early dwellings were placed back from the street, leaving room for more permanent construction
                    later. The advent of a sawmill and brick kiln made this possible. Between 1819 and 1824, when phase
                    two of the building development took place, houses were either of frame or brick, dimensions of the
                    latter typically 22′6″ by 30′6″ and the former
                    20′3″ by 28′3″. Framing elements were numbered with
                    Roman numerals (a device frequently used in German construction), allowing for quick and accurate
                    assembling.
            Though there were minor variations in all buildings, these houses had certain common characteristics.
                    They had six rooms: a stair hall, kitchen, and common room on the first floor; a stair hall and two
                    bedrooms on the second. All rooms were entered from the halls and none interconnected. There was a
                    single entrance from a side yard rather than from the street. Each house had ten windows placed high
                    to insure privacy and two small gable windows at each end of the attic. Interior walls were
                    plastered and trimmed with simple beaded boards, as were the clapboard exteriors.
            Each house had a barn which accommodated equipment and a cow and incorporated the outhouse.4
            
            
               
                  4 This information on Harmonist construction is based on current research
                        by Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        , Inc.
            
            
            
            BARRETT GATE HOUSE
            
            Harmonist dwelling of the first building phase (1814–1818) incorporating features of the
                    log and frame structures. The house was given by Mr. and Mrs. Carl Barrett to the Robert Lee Blaffer
                    Trust, which has adapted it to modern use. (The Blaffer Trust is a philanthropic foundation set up
                    by Mrs. Kenneth Dale Owen.)
            
            Logs marked with Roman numerals, which device aided in quick and accurate construction of houses.
                    Standardized pieces marked in this manner were used in 
                        Germany
                     before the Harmonists came to the 
                        United States
                    . Logs on left from houses in 
                        New Harmony
                    ; the one on right from house in Iptingen, 
                        Germany
                    .
            
            
            ST. STEPHEN'S RECTORY
            
            Restored Episcopalian church rectory illustrating features of Harmonist frame construction: unpainted
                    poplar weather- boarding, beading for decoration, windows with sashes containing six panes each.
            
            
            The Harmonists used the pugging method to provide insulation and fire-proofing in construction.
                    So-called "Dutch biscuits" were made by wrapping tapered slats of wood with straw
                    and mud and then inserting them between the floor joists and wall studs which contained grooves.
                    Generally the "biscuits" measured about eighteen inches long and seven inches
                    wide. They effectively kept the winter heat in, the summer heat out, and sound in its proper place.
                    Picture above shows exposed lathing and plaster in one of the Harmonist houses.
            
            SOLOMON WOLF
            
            Solomon Wolf came to the 
                        United States
                     with the Harmony Society in August, 1805, and was listed in the log of the ship
                    "Margaret" as a farmer. During the 
                        New Harmony
                     period, however, he was a shepherd and lived, according to the Weingartner map,
                    adjacent to the sheep barns. In an August 14, 1817, letter, William Smith, writing to Frederick Rapp
                    in Pittsburgh, said: "Solomon Wolf and Peter Schreiber have been sent to 
                        Kentucky
                     to buy sheep, but they returned a few days ago and brought along 45 head, the average
                    price with costs runs to $2.55 each."5
            
            Built in 1823, Wolfs house was located at the present site of the Tree of Life Clinic on the north
                    side of South Street between Main and Brewery streets, until May, 1975, when it was moved to the
                    location of a comparable brick house belonging to Christian Eigner on the southeast corner of
                    Brewery and Granary streets. Its removal offered an opportunity for archaeological investigation
                    never before possible. The picture below is from Wallrath Weingartner's "Map of
                    Harmony on the 
                        Wabash
                    , 1814–1825," showing Solomon Wolf's house.
            
            
               
                  5 Karl J. R. Arndt, A Documentary History of the Indiana
                            Decade of the Harmony Society. Volume I, 1814–1819 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1975), 373.
            
            
            
               Courtesy Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        . Inc.
               WOLF HOUSE: ARCHAEOLOGICAL
                            FOUNDATIONS
               
               View of Solomon Wolf house foundations and cellar following archaeological exposure. The large
                        rock rectangle, upper right, encompassing the masonry walled and floored cellar, supported the
                        original Harmony Society dwelling. A smaller brick rectangle, at left of photograph, supported a
                        later rear addition. Remnants of brick-paved walkways to outbuildings are visible in lower left.
                        Open test pits in lower center sampled side yard household debris.
            
            
            
               Courtesy Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        . Inc.
               WOLF HOUSE BRICK
               
               A brick from the Solomon Wolf house: "Harmonie der 25 Mai 1823 ist ein sehr
                        schöner Tag wir haben 2400 Bach stein gemacht. Morgenstund hat Gold im
                        Mund." (Harmonie, May 25, 1823, is a very beautiful day. We have made 2,400 bricks.
                        Morning hour has gold in its mouth. [The early bird catches the worm.])
            
            
            HARMONIST SCHOOLHOUSE
            
            The Harmonist schoolhouse was once located in the present yard of Murphy Auditorium. Dr. Johann
                    Christoph Mueller, the society's doctor, schoolmaster, and musical composer, conducted
                    school in the northeast portion of the first floor. This building also housed the press on which
                    were printed the first Harmony Society books shortly before the Rappites removed to Economy.
            In 1825 the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Gazette, official organ of the Robert Owen Community, was published in the former
                    school room on a new Super-Royal press. The printers, Thomas B. Palmer and Robert Jennings, occupied
                    the premises during their tenure.
            When the house was torn down in 1913, the newspaper account recorded: "Yellow poplar entered
                    largely into its makeup and some of the timbers are huge. One beam runs clear across the house and
                    is 47 feet long, 12 x 18 inches. Many of the joists and rafters are hewed poplar and three times as
                    large as the present day pieces." In addition, some bricks were found with the date 1822
                    and various inscriptions—one with the name of Samuel Bradford Birkbeck (son of
                        Morris).6 The small picture below is from Wallrath Weingartner's
                    "Map of 
                        New Harmony
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                    , 1814–1825," showing the Harmonist schoolhouse. The photograph on
                    the following page shows the Rappite schoolhouse as it appeared at a much later date. Insert is a
                    photograph of a brick bearing the name of Christian Endriss and the imprint of a bladed barrow
                    knife.
            
            
               
                  6 Quotation is from clipping, dated December 5, 1913, in Local History
                        File, 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute, 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            
               Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute, 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            GEORGE RAPP'S HOUSE
            
            George Rapp's house was built several years (ca. 1817-1818) after the arrival of the
                    Harmonists. Whenever mentioned by visitors, the house was described as a large handsome building and
                    was compared in size to No. 2 Community House (after 1821) across the way. Elias Pym Fordham in his
                        Personal Narrative of Travels …, 1817–1818 called it
                    "by far the best in Indiana." In an inventory of buildings and real estate dated
                    January 16, 1819, "Mr. Rapp's brick house" is valued at
                        $3,500.7 The picture below is a photograph of a model of 
                        New Harmony
                     as it is thought to have appeared in 1824. The Rapp mansion is in the foreground. The
                    detail is from Wallrath Weingartner's "Map of 
                        New Harmony
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                    , 1814–1825," showing George Rapp's house.
            
               Courtesy Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        . Inc.
            
            
            
               
                  7 Elias Pym Fordham, Personal Narrative of Travels in
                                    
                        Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania,
                                    Ohio
                     , Indiana, 
                                Kentucky
                            ; and of a Residence in the 
                                Illinois
                             Territory, 1817–1818, ed. Frederick Austin Ogg (
                            Cleveland
                        , 1906), 207; Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                    206.
            
            
            
               Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            FOOTPRINT ROCK
            
            The limestone slab lying in the yard of the Rapp mansion was purchased by Frederick Rapp in 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1819. The two footprints are Indian petroglyphs carved by the aborigines in the 
                        St. Louis
                     area. A letter written to Romelius L. Baker of Economy by Paul Anderson, October 12,
                    1841, describing the quarrying and acquisition of the stone, was intended for and used by David Dale
                    Owen in an article, "Regarding Human Foot-prints in Solid Limestone." In
                    explaining the rock's geological history, Owen astutely observed: "It appears to
                    me much less improbable that some aboriginal artist should have exhibited unlocked for skill in
                    intagliating a rock than that a man should have been coeval with Crustacea."8 Local tradition refers to the slab as Gabriel's Rock, thus alluding to a tale
                    supposedly told by Father Rapp to his followers to the effect that the Angel had thus imprinted the
                    slab on his heavenly descent to assist him in the Society's affairs.
            
               
                  8 David Dale Owen, "Regarding Human Foot-prints in Solid
                        Limestone," American Journal of Science and Arts, XLIII (October,
                        1842), 14–32.
            
            
            FRAME CHURCH
            
            Only one contemporary sketch of a Harmonist building still exists—Adlard Welby's
                    sketch of the white frame church done in 1821 (A Visit to North America and the English
                        Settlements in 
                            Illinois
                        
               , 1821). A Mr. Courtney who had visited 
                        New Harmony
                     two years before—in 1819—described it thus: "A large
                    substantial brick [sic] church, with its steeple, clock and bell, is of course the
                    most conspicuous building: it has three floors; but the lower one only is used for public worship:
                    the second, equally good and well lighted, and probably designed for some public purpose, is not at
                    present much used: the upper one is merely a very spacious loft of considerable height, under the
                    ridge of the large roof."9
            
            The bell mentioned by various travelers with pleasure had been ordered by Frederick Rapp, September
                    9, 1817, from William Barber and Co., Liverpool, 
                        England
                    . Frederick wrote: "a Bell to weigh between 15 and 16 Cwt. from one of the
                    Founderies in 
                        England
                    . It is intended for a religious Society of 
                        Germany
                    , who have settled themselves on the 
                        Wabash
                     River, Indiana State, in a place called Harmony. It possesses about 25,000 Acres of
                    Land in one Tract and the Bell is chiefly intended to notify particular Hours of the Day to the
                    Members who may be occupied in different, and at times distant parts of the Settlement. The Sound
                    should therefore not only be solemn, but loud."
               10
            
            The bell was shipped by way of 
                        New Orleans
                     and arrived in April or May of 1819 in time to be mentioned by Mr. Courtney. At a cost
                    of 153 pounds, 7 shillings, 1 pence, and import duty of about 20 percent Frederick got the loud bell
                    he wanted; for it is said that the sound carried into the surrounding woods for seven miles distant.
            The Harmonists' manner of worship was described in some detail by Elias Pym Fordham on May
                    6, 1818, in his travel journal: "The men sit at one end of the church and the women at the
                    other; and Mr. Rapp sits while he preaches in a chair placed on a stage, about one yard high, with a
                    table before him. When I heard him one week day evening, he wore a linsey woolsey coat and a blue
                    worsted night cap. In praying the Harmonists do not rise up or kneel down, but bend their bodies
                    forward, almost to their knees."11
            
            
               
                  9 Arndt, Documentary History, I, 799.
               
                  10
                        Ibid., 390.
               
                  11 Fordham, Personal Narrative of Travels,
                            205–208.
               
            
            
            
            
            THE GRANARY
            
            Though now just three stories high, the granary originally had five stories until a fire in 1878
                    destroyed the upper floors and the tile-covered hip roof. During the Harmonist occupation it was
                    used mainly for grain storage. Three large, strong, thick doors, furnished with enormous
                    locks—one measuring 151/2 inches by 81/2 inches, with a key approximately 10 inches
                    long—helped to secure the contents of the building.
            In 1843 the granary became the third laboratory and museum of David Dale Owen and was the
                    headquarters for the geological surveys commissioned by the federal government. Later it was used
                    for numerous purposes, including a woolen mill, a flour mill, and a pork-packing plant.12 The picture below is a portion of David Dale Owen's sketch of Church
                    Street looking east from the West Street intersection and showing the Granary.
            
            
               
                  12 Nora G. Fretageot, Historic 
                                New Harmony
                            : A Guide ([
                            New Harmony
                        ], 1934), 21.
            
            
            DORMITORY No. 2
            Completed in 1822, the No. 2 Bruder Haus, which accommodated single men and women, was one of the
                    major communal buildings of the Harmony Society (and later of the Owen Community when it served many
                    functions, including a Pestalozzian school and print shop). According to several accounts, all the
                    larger brick dwellings had a gallery running through the center with rooms on either side opening
                    one into the other.13 The photograph below is of a model of 
                        New Harmony
                     as it is thought to have appeared in 1824. Dormitory No. 2 and the kitchen along side
                    it are in the foreground. Detail is from Wallrath Weingartner's "Map of 
                        New Harmony
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                    , 1814–1825," showing Dormitory No. 2.
            
               Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            
            
               
                  13 Victor Colin Duclos, "From the Diary and Recollections of
                        Victor Colin Duclos. Copied from the original manuscript by Mrs. Nora Fretageot" in
                        Harlow Lindley, ed., Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. III; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), 540; The Diaries of Donald Macdonald, 1824–1826
                            (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XIV, No. 2; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1942), 247.
            
            
            
            SUN DIAL
            
            Until the early 1960s Dormitory No. 2 displayed on its southern facade a sun dial dated 1821. Made of
                    oak boards with a strategically placed iron rod for casting shadows to number the hours, the sun
                    dial had been originally placed by the Harmonists on Father Rapp's house and served as the
                    town clock. When the mansion burned in 1844, the sun dial was put on No. 2 until an extensive state
                    restoration program caused it to be brought inside the building where it now rests.14
            
            
               
                  14 Fretageot, Historic 
                                New Harmony
                            
                  , 29.
            
            
            DORMITORY No. 4: THE OPERA
                        HOUSE
            
            Dormitory No. 4 was one of the last (1823–1824) of the large community buildings
                    constructed by the Harmonists. Like No. 2 it housed unmarried members of the Harmony Society. During
                    the Owen Community it also served as living quarters, and at one time its sixteen large rooms
                    accommodated sixteen families. Its greatest distinction, however, lies in the long and distinguished
                    role it played in 
                        New Harmony
                     theatrical history from 1856 to 1913. The present façade was added in 1888
                    by Eugene S. Thrall. The Opera House was restored in 1969. The picture below is of old No. 4 as it
                    appeared in the 1870s, when it was called Union Hall and before the façade was added. On
                    the following page is the Opera House as it appears today.
            
               Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                         Workingmen's Institute.
            
            
            
            
            BRICK CHURCH GEMEINDE HAUS
            
            Begun in 1822, the impressive brick church of the Harmonists was still not quite complete in December
                    of 1824 when Robert Owen arrived with the view of purchasing the Harmonist village. Both
                    Owen's son William and Donald Macdonald recorded that fact in their diaries. The English
                    traveler, William Hebert, who visited the society while the building was under construction, was
                    impressed with its "nobility" and "grandeur" and wrote an
                    excellent description of its appearance: 
                        These people exhibit considerable taste as well as boldness of design in some of their works.
                            They are erecting a noble church, the roof of which is supported in the interior by a great
                            number of stately columns, which have been turned from trees of their own forests. The kinds
                            of wood made use of for this purpose are, I am informed, black walnut, cherry, and
                            sassafras. Nothing I think can exceed the grandeur of the joinery, and the masonry and
                            brick-work seem to be of the first order. The form of this church is that of a cross, the
                            limbs being short and equal; and as the doors, of which there are four, are placed at the
                            ends of the limbs, the interiour of the building as seen from the entrance, has a most ample
                            and spacious effect. A quadrangular story or compartment containing several rooms, is raised
                            on the body of the church, the sides of which inclining inwards towards the top, are
                            terminated by a square gallery, in the centre of which is a small circular tower of about
                            ten feet in height, which is surmounted with a silvered globe. The reason assigned by our
                            guide for the erection of this fine edifice was, that the first church being built wholly of
                            wood, is found to be so hot during the summer, when the whole of the society are assembled
                            within it, as to be scarcely supportable, in consequence of which it was resolved to delay
                            the building of their houses for a time, and raise a more spacious and substantial place of
                            worship, and the one they are employed upon bids fairly to do them honor, both in the design
                            and execution. It is much more spacious than the number of their society requires. I could
                            scarcely imagine myself to be in the woods of Indiana, on the borders of the 
                                Wabash
                            , while pacing the long resounding aisles, and surveying the stately colonades
                            of this church. Here too the Englishman is once more gratified with the sound of a church
                            bell, which however harsh it may sometimes be thought by those who have never strayed beyond
                            the sound of one, imparts a gratification after a period of estrangement from it, as
                            connected with early associations, infinitely more soothing than could the most delicate
                            strains of music.15
                  
                    
                
            The picture on the following page is a model of 
                        New Harmony
                     as it is thought to have appeared in 1824. The brick and frame churches are in the
                    center rear. The small detail is from Wallrath Weingartner's "Map of 
                        New Harmony
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                    , 1814–1825," showing the Harmonist brick church.
            
               
                  15 William Hebert, "From a Visit to the Colony of Harmony in
                        Indiana [1825]," in Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers,
                    334.
            
            
            
               Courtesy Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        , Inc.
            
            
            
            
               Courtesy 
                            New Harmony
                        , Workingmen's Institute Museum.
            
            BRICK CHURCH: FEATURES
            
            Fluted door panel: from an inside door of the brick church. Many columns were fluted in the same
                    manner.
            Wrought iron hinge.
            "Keystone of the north arch of the ‘old Rappite church built in
                    1822.’"
            
            NORTH DOOR
                    OF BRICK CHURCH: "DOOR
                    OF PROMISE"
            The north door of the brick church with its stone lintel designed and executed by Frederick Rapp has
                    had an interesting history. When the church was taken down in 1874, it became the north door of the
                    public school built on the same site. When this early school was replaced by the present school
                    building in 1913, the door was moved to the west where it is situated today.
            The Golden Rose symbol has its identification in the German Lutheran version of Bible verse Micah
                    4:8: "And thou Tower of Eden, the stronghold of the daughter of Zion, the golden rose shall
                    come, the former dominion, the Kingdom of the daughter of Jerusalem."16
                    Below are the plans for the Door of Promise as drawn by Frederick Rapp.
            
               Courtesy: plan, Old Economy Village; photograph, Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        . Inc.
            
            
               
                  16 William E. Wilson, The Angel and the Serpent: The Story of 
                                New Harmony
                            
                   (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1964), 44. An alternate translation of the inscription is found in
                        Fretageot, Historic 
                                New Harmony
                            
                  , 23. "Unto thee shall come the golden rose, the first
                        dominion."
            
            
            
               Courtesy Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        . Inc
            
            
            
               HARMONIST BURIAL GROUND
               
               Over two hundred Harmonists died at 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana, and were buried in unmarked graves. There is, however, a
                        list—written in German by Romelius L. Baker—which names the persons buried
                        in the cemetery.
               In the enclosure there are also several Indian mounds (of the 
                            Hopewell
                         prehistoric culture) which were investigated by some of the Owen-period
                        naturalists, notably Charles Alexandre Lesueur, as well as some members of the Harmony Society
                        before him.
            
            
            HARMONIST COFFIN
            
            Burial customs in the Harmony Society were simple. True to the Harmonists' stress on
                    equality in death as in life, no marker was placed on the graves. And because the Harmonists felt
                    that the life to come was all-important, death in this one meant only the cessation of work and
                    sorrow, with quiet sleep in the orchard burial ground until called up for the Second Coming.
            In a brief ceremony the black hexagonal coffin, accompanied by a small number of mourners consisting
                    of family, intimate friends, and the elders, was brought to the grave. A few prayers and hymns, some
                    remarks, small bouquets of flowers placed in the grave—and "another brother had
                    gone home."17 The coffin above, on view in the 
                        New Harmony
                     Workingmen's Institute Museum, is five feet, one inch long.
            
            
               
                  17 Hilda Adam Kring, The Harmonists: A Folk-Cultural
                        Approach (Meutchen, N.J., 1973), 76–79.
            
            
            THE LABYRINTH
            
            The Harmonists built labyrinths in all three of their towns. In mystic fashion they represented
                    Father Rapp's idea that one has to tread the tortuous way of life before attaining the
                    rewards of Heaven.
            A number of the visitors to 
                        New Harmony
                     mentioned the "pleasure garden," but the best descriptions remain in
                    the recollections of the children who grew up in the Owenite community. Victor Duclos, who came to 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1826 as a child of eight, remembered the labyrinth thus: "Within a circle
                    of about 140 feet in diameter there were formed concentric circles with growth of hedge plants,
                    presenting an intricate pathway leading to a small block house in the centre. The house was built of
                    blocks of wood about twelve inches long pointed at one end. These were placed with the pointed ends
                    outward to form a circular wall."18
            
            Miner K. Kellogg, portrait artist, spent his eleventh and twelfth years as a participant in the Owen
                    Community (1825-1827). Sixty years after, he wrote: 
                        The first Labyrinth I ever saw was at 
                                New Harmony
                            . It was grown in an open field near the town and a source of
                            constant amusement to children. Its lines were formed of vines grown upon light fences and
                            about four feet high, converging as they reached the centre. Here the visitor came upon a
                            circular hut made of the ends of rough logs cut to a point externally leaving one
                            window—& a blind door which had to be sought out—&
                            only found by pushing at the walls. I remember well my first visit to this hut, after a long
                            & tedious run back and forth through the labyrinth. On seeking for the door a large
                            snake took a look at me from between the logs, laughing at me with its long red tongue. I
                            got back out of the labyrinth much sooner and easier than I found my way in.19
                  
                    
                
            On the following page is the Harmonist plan for the labyrinth, indicating the type and location of
                    shrubbery. Also pictured is a photograph of the labyrinth as it appears today.
            
               
                  18 Duclos, "From the Diary and Recollections of Victor Colin
                        Duclos," 543.
               
                  19 Lorna Lutes Sylvester, ed., "Miner K. Kellogg: Recollections
                        of 
                            New Harmony
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History LXIV (March, 1968),
                    55.
            
            
            
               Courtesy: plan, Old Economy Village; photograph, Historic 
                            New Harmony
                        . Inc
            
            
            
            MUSIC
                    AND MANUSCRIPT BOOKS
            
            Music played a major role in the life of the Harmonists. Since the opportunity to study music was
                    available to anyone who wished, many did so, to the extent that the making of, or listening to,
                    music was their most popular pastime and formed an intrinsic part of their daily social and
                    religious affairs. According to Richard Wetzel, the Harmony Society period on the 
                        Wabash
                     "was one of intensive and methodical music study and the proficiency of the
                    orchestra in the late 1820s was the result of the teaching effort expended during this
                        time."20
            
            Musically, 1817 was a banner year in 
                        New Harmony
                     with the arrival of some special musical instruments. The Rosenbaum "piano
                    forty" weighing 379 pounds, obtained from Abishai Way, and a special purchase from Allyn
                    Bacon Company containing, among other things, a pair of horns, cost $30.00; a pair of
                    bassoons, $30.00; and two octave flutes, $4.00, augmented the quality of the
                    Harmonists' orchestra and teaching opportunities. Inspired, perhaps, by the new
                    instruments, Father Rapp was reported in August to have "given out [a song] for singing in
                    the private devotion next Sunday."21
            
            A list of Christmas music performed at 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1817 combines vocal and instrumental pieces. One piece for voice and flute,
                    "O Nacht, und du O feyerliche Stille," was composed by the Society's
                    innkeeper, Frederick Eckensperger.22
            
            In addition to George Rapp, Frederick Rapp and John Christopher Mueller were the main composers of
                    hymns for the Harmonists. Often the words, or poems, were original and set to popular German folk
                    sources, although both Mueller and Frederick sometimes composed their own music as well as the
                    words.
            Concerts by the "
                        Wabash
                     Orchestra" and oratorio or cantata performances by smaller groups for persons
                    other than Society members were noticed and praised by the press. A list of the singers and
                    instrumentalists reveals well-known Harmonist names: Dr. John Christopher Mueller, Gertrude Rapp,
                    Jonathan Lentz, Wallrath Weingartner, Jacob Henrici, Hil-degarde Mutschler, Conrad Feucht, and
                        others.23
            
            
               
                  20 Richard D. Wetzel, Frontier Musicians on the
                            Connoquenessing, 
                                Wabash
                            , and 
                                Ohio
                            : A History of the Music and Musicians of George Rapp's Harmony
                            Society, 1805–1906 (
                     Athens,
                                Ohio
                  , 1976), 23.
               
                  21 Arndt, Documentary History, II, 374.
               
                  22 Wetzel, Frontier Musicians, 32, 159.
               
                  23
                        Ibid., 25.
            
            
            Various travelers duly noted the social role music played in the Harmony Society. Young William Owen,
                    who lived in 
                        New Harmony
                     during the final months of Harmonist occupation, mentioned numerous occasions when he
                    and Captain Donald MacDonald attended social functions at which music was sung and played and in
                    which he joined.24
            
            Time was not only spent in performing, however; an equal amount of attention and effort was put into
                    the copying of music and other subjects as well. Many manuscript books now in the archives at
                    Economy, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , but produced in Indiana, attest to the progressive educational practices of the
                    Society. Both individuals and groups were encouraged to express their ideas in creative forms such
                    as hymns, songs, and poems or to copy the works of well-known literary personnages like Friedrich
                    von Schiller and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. The familiar names also appear on these manuscript
                    books, which bear the dates they were begun and the names, and sometimes birth dates, of the persons
                    who compiled them. Frequently the title page was artistically done in fraktur with floral
                    ornamentation and the whole bound in leather. Subjects other than hymns are recorded: penmanship and
                    grammar exercises, arithmetic problems, and even, as in the case of Wallrath Weingartner's
                    books, directions for making dyes.25 Below is a photograph of a hymn sung at
                    Father Rapp's funeral.
            
               Courtesy Old Economy Village
            
            
               
                  24 Joel W. Hiatt, ed., Diary of William Owen from November
                            10, 1824, to April 20, 1825 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. IV, No. 1; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1906), 78, 93, 102, 106, 118, 121, 128.
               
                  25 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 253ff;
                        Wetzel, Frontier Musicians, 39.
            
            
            HARMONISTHORNS
            
            George Rapp's April 28, 1823, entry in his diary says: 
                  
                     
                        "At 11 o'clock we went rowing in the boats … you can
                                    easily picture what a fine echo the French Horns and the music otherwise made in the
                                    corners and curves in the 
                                        Wabash
                                    —you would scarcely believe it …, "26
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               Courtesy Old Economy Village
            
            
               Courtesy Old Economy Village
            
            
               
                  26 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society,
                    246.
            
            
            
               Courtesy Old Economy Village
            
            
            WALLRATH WEINGARTNER
            
            Wallrath Weingartner, whose name appears regularly in the cultural manuscripts of the Harmony
                    Society, was born in 
                        Gross Glattbach
                    , District of Moulbronn, Württemberg, 
                        Germany
                    , May 4, 1795. He was the son of Frederick and Christina Weingartner who emigrated with
                    their family to the 
                        United States
                    , arriving February 16, 1805.
            In addition to the very important maps of the two Harmonies, Weingartner's most interesting
                    work is the manuscript he entitled "Ornithology or the Natural History of the Birds of the 
                        United States
                    . Illustrated with Plats [sic]. Economy. 15 January. 1829,"
                    into which he copied with skill and artistry over sixty birds from Alexander Wilson's Ornithology.
               27 Several of the illustrations on the following
                    page allow for a comparison of the original Wilson plate with the Weingartner rendering. The copyist
                    did not always reproduce exactly what he saw in Wilson's work but often picked examples
                    from various plates, regrouped them, and created new arrangements. Weingartner's text is an
                    abstract or resume of the Wilson essays that accompanied each of the bird drawings.
            
               WEINGARTNER BIRDS
               
            
            
               Courtesy Old Economy Village and Historic 
                            New Harmony
                         Inc.
            
            
               
                  27 Alexander Wilson, American Ornithology; or, the Natural
                            History of the Birds of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1808-[1814]).
            
            
            
               WILSON PLATE
               
            
            
               WEINGARTNER BIRD
               
            
            
               WILSON PLATE
               
            
            
               WEINGARTNER BIRD
               
               Courtesy Old Economy Village and Historic 
                            New Harmony
                         Inc.
            
            
            MILLS
                    AND MANUFACTURES
            
            After a few months in the Harmony Society's new home on the 
                        Wabash
                    , George Rapp wrote a letter to Frederick, who was still in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , telling of the general state of things in 
                        New Harmony
                    , illness and death among the members, and their needs. He also described the
                    countryside and the lay of the land and his plans for its development: 
                  
                     
                        I have searched through the entire land and found many advantages which it has; e.g.,
                                    I shall lead a little brook, which takes a left course about a quarter mile above
                                    the town now right through the middle street down the valley to the bank for general
                                    use, except the grinding mill. This will give me 14 to 15 foot fall, so the water
                                    can turn a mill half a year and often longer only 100 steps from the lower street of
                                    the town, and the brick maker, the tanner, and whoever else needs water for his
                                    trade can live along the stream. Then Gressing's creek has a beautiful
                                    stream of water, 9 to 10 acres [?]. On that place the sawmill should be built, and
                                    from there the water should be led into the town so that in the upper street toward
                                    morning it will run toward midnight toward the bank and have a fall of 14 to 15
                                    feet. The spring in Gray's land has a fall of about 5 feet down to the town
                                    and 3 quarter mile distant, and is so strong that it will drive a mill wheel the
                                    entire year without the springs and little creeks which in the vicinity of the town
                                    run out of the hills, and which can be used and still have quite a bit of water
                                    during this dry season, but they disappear underground because they have no decent
                                    bed on which to move. Furthermore, the mill site in the cutoff is the most beautiful
                                    and best mill site within a distance of 100 miles. The entire bed for a length of 2
                                    miles is a pavement of rock and no broader than your creek, and there is never a
                                    lack of water. Then by the town along the outer street toward south there is a small
                                    pond which has running water throughout the year.28
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Basic products generated by the Harmonist industrial system for their subsistence and sale included
                    textiles, flour, lumber, alcoholic beverages, leather, rope, ceramics, cured meats, and oils.
            The Harmonist grist mill was located two miles south of 
                        New Harmony
                     on the east bank of the Cut-off River. The picture on the following page shows it as
                    sketched by Charles Alexandre Lesueur; it was recalled by Victor Duclos as a three-story frame
                    building, "run by water power, containing four run of stones." In a March 28,
                    1816, report on 
                        New Harmony
                    , Frederick Rapp wrote back to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    : "our Steam Engine will also come in Opperation in the course of 3 or 4 weeks,
                    we shall run 2 pr. mill stones with it besides our machineries, till we get time to build a large
                    mill with at least 4 or 6 pr. Sts. for which we have an exellent Seat 2 miles from the town, and is
                    convinient to Ship every thing by water to and from it."29
            
            
               
                  28 Arndt, Documentary History, I, 68–69.
               
                  29
                        Ibid., 203.
            
            
            
               Courtesy American Philosophical Society, 
                     Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
                  .
            
            
            
               Courtesy Old Economy Village.
            
            WOOL MANUFACTURES
            
            Wool samples from the Harmonist mill. On March 19, 1819, Governor Jonathan Jennings wrote to John L.
                    Baker at 
                        New Harmony
                     relative to "2¼ yds. of superfine and 4 Ms yds. of fine cloth,
                    amouting to forty five dollars," which the governor had received: "the cloth is
                    considered to be the best that has been seen in this place [Corydon, the Indiana capital]; better
                    even than cloth which has been sold here for $12 and $13 per
                        yard."30
            
            HARMONIST POTTERY
            
            Samples of Harmonist pottery, opposite page, found during an archaeological excavation of the
                    foundations of the Solomon Wolf house. The plate is decorated with the characteristic Harmonist
                    painted yellow zig-zag design. Both specimens are salt-glazed and brown in color.
            
               
                  30
                        Ibid., 670.
            
            
            
            AN EXAMPLE
                    OF HARMONIST SILK
            
            Although the Harmonists did not establish at 
                        New Harmony
                     what later became one of their most famous manufactures, they were already thinking and
                    planning their silk industry while still in Indiana. As their original planting of Lombardy poplar
                    trees died, they began replacing them with mulberries, an indication of future plans for the
                    propagation of silkworms.
            At Economy, as early as 1826, the Society began the development of silk manufacture under the able
                    direction of Gertrude Rapp. Very precise and detailed records were kept of this industry to the
                    extent that today the Society's archives represent an invaluable resource of information
                    about American sericulture.31
            
            
            
               Courtesy Historic 
                            New Harmony
                         Inc.
            
            
               
                  31 Arndt, George Rapp's Harmony Society, 392,
                        557.
            
            
            
               Courtesy Pauline Meyer.
            
            No. 2 STAIRWAY INSCRIPTION
            
            In 1824 the Harmonists left their unique town on the 
                        Wabash
                     to begin anew in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Written in chalk under one of the stairways in Dormitory No. 2 is a touching
                    inscription placed there hastily by a departing Harmonist: "On the twenty-fourth of May,
                    1824, we have departed. Lord, with Thy great help and goodness, in body and soul protect
                    us."
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
