
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 80, Issue 3, pages 193-299. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:80+issue:3+year:1984&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, General Strike, 1935
            Gary L. Bailey∗
            
            Readers of the August 19, 1935, edition of the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Tribune probably were less than amused when they ran across a cartoon lampooning
                    general strikes: not a month earlier their city had experienced one of the few general strikes in 
                        United States
                     history, and it had been no laughing matter.
            Writing over fifty years ago, economist Wilfrid Harris Crook defined a general strike as one by
                    "a majority of the workers in the more important industries of any one locality or
                        region."1 By this definition, he argued, there had been only one
                    such event in the history of the 
                        United States
                    , the Seattle strike of 1919. In a 1960 study, however, Crook identified several other
                    instances of what he considered to be general strikes: 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1877, 
                        New Orleans
                     in 1892, and 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1910 all saw such shutdowns before Seattle, and no fewer than nine cities had had
                    similar experiences after 1919, the most notable being the 
                        San Francisco
                     strike of 1934.2
            
            
               
                  ∗ Gary L. Bailey is a graduate student in history at Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , and a researcher at the Indiana University Oral History Research Center. The
                        author would like to thank Indiana University Professor James H. Madison and the students in his
                        seminar in American history for their helpful comments on an earlier draft of this essay.
                        Professor William B. Pickett of Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana, and the staff of the 
                            Vigo County
                         Public Library in 
                            Terre Haute
                         also provided valuable assistance.
               
                  1 Wilfrid Harris Crook, The General Strike: A Study of
                            Labor's Tragic Weapon in Theory and Practice (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N.C., 1931), vii.
               
                  2 Wilfrid Harris Crook, Communism and the General Strike
                        (Hamden, Conn., 1960), ix. The major general strikes, Crook found, had occurred in other
                        countries, frequently with important results. For example, a 1931 general strike in 
                            Cuba
                         forced the resignation of that country's president; in 1926 a nationwide
                        walkout by a number of unions in Great Britain caused bitter divisions there and led to the
                        passage of significant antilabor legislation; some three hundred thousand Swedish workers
                        participated in a 1909 walkout which lasted for a month. These and many other general strikes
                        are discussed in Crook's General Strike and Communism
                            and the General Strike. The latter work also briefly discusses the Terre
            
            
            Most American historians are familiar with the Seattle and 
                        San Francisco
                     episodes, but far fewer seem to be aware that these were not the only general strikes
                    that the 
                        United States
                     has experienced. Certainly the shutdowns on the West Coast were the most conspicuous.
                    The Seattle strike drew national attention and helped feed the antiradical crusade of
                    1919–1920. The 
                        San Francisco
                     strike also attracted a nationwide audience and was one of the most controversial labor
                    disputes of the New Deal years. Most of the other general strikes in the 
                        United States
                     have been minor affairs of limited import; still, the general unfamiliarity with the 
                        Terre Haute
                     general strike is surprising.3 While 
                        Terre Haute
                    's "labor holiday" was neither as violent as the 
                        San Francisco
                     dispute nor tinged with the radicalism of the Seattle strike, it nevertheless did
                    attract national attention. An effective twoday shutdown of an entire city by a broad coalition of
                    labor unions, the strike resulted in an extended period of military rule for the city and
                    surrounding area and ultimately gave rise to a civil liberties battle which was fought out in the
                    press and the courts. By any standard 
                        Terre Haute
                    's labor holiday was a general strike of significant proportions and worthy of
                    serious study.4
            
            
               Haute episode; see pages 149–53. For other discussions of the phenomenon of the
                        general strike, see Wilfrid Harris Crook, "The Revolutionary Logic of the General
                        Strike," American Political Science Review, XXVIII (August, 1934),
                        655–63; Horace B. Davis, "A Bibliographic Essay: The General Strike is no
                        Myth," Southwestern Social Science Quarterly, XLIII (June, 1962),
                        57–59; and 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, July 15, 1934.
               
                  3 The Seattle strike is described in Robert L. Friedheim, "The
                        Seattle General Strike of 1919," Pacific Northwest Quarterly, LII
                        (July, 1961), 81–98; Robert L. Friedheim, The Seattle General
                        Strike (Seattle, 1964); Robert L. Friedheim and Robin Friedheim, "The Seattle
                        Labor Movement, 1919–1920," Pacific Northwest Quarterly,
                        LV (October, 1964), 146–56; Crook, General Strike,
                        528–43; and Crook, Communism and the General Strike,
                        47–61. Discussions of the 
                            San Francisco
                         general strike include Charles P. Larrowe, "The Great Maritime Strike of
                        '34," Labor History, XI (Fall, 1970), 403–51, and
                        XII (Winter, 1971), 3–37; Crook, Communism and the General Strike,
                        123–48; Joyce Maxine Clements, "The 
                            San Francisco
                         Maritime and General Strikes of 1934 and the Dynamics of Repression" (Ph.D.
                        dissertation, Department of Criminology, University of 
                     California, Berkeley
                  , 1975).
                        Irving Bernstein, Turbulent Years: A History of the American Worker (
                            Boston
                        , 1969), 252–98, and Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., The Coming
                            of the New Deal (
                            Boston
                        , 1958), 389–93, both discuss the 
                            San Francisco
                         strike; neither mentions 
                            Terre Haute
                        . Philip Taft's influential Organized Labor in American
                            History (
                            New York
                        , 1964) discusses the Seattle and 
                            San Francisco
                         strikes; the 1886 agitation for the eight-hour workday also is treated as a general
                        strike here, as are 1946 sympathy strikes in 
                     Rochester, New York
                  , and
                        Oakland, 
                            California
                        . Taft does not seem to have been aware of the 
                            Terre Haute
                         strike or the other incidents that Crook discusses; see pp. 124–25, 342,
                        440–42, 576–78.
               
                  4 Few treatments of the 
                            Terre Haute
                         strike are available. Donald L. Bush, in "The 
                            Terre Haute
                         General Strike" (M.S. thesis, Department of Social Studies, Indiana State Teachers
                        College, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , 1958), discusses the main events of the strike but does not deal with the problem
                        of its origins to any great extent; Robert R. Neff, "The Early Career and Governorship
                        of Paul V. McNutt"
            
            
            To understand the 1935 general strike in 
                        Terre Haute
                     it is necessary to explore the city's economic background. The problems of the
                    1920s in particular helped to shape the ways labor and management viewed one another in the 1930s
                    and thus played an important part in the events leading to the general strike. In a very real sense
                    the roots of the general strike stretched back to World War I and beyond.
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                    , established in 1816 along the east bank of the Wabash River, enjoyed steady growth
                    throughout the nineteenth century. The city was advantageously located, lying at once in the middle
                    of a fertile agricultural region, on the edge of the coal fields of southwestern Indiana, along a
                    navigable waterway, and—by the post-Civil War years—astride major east-west
                    and north-south railroad routes. With these assets 
                        Terre Haute
                     was able in the period after the Civil War to build up a solid, diversified economic
                    structure based upon wholesaling and distribution, iron and steel production, distilling and
                    brewing, milling, and various other activities. By 1890 the city's population was over
                    thirty thousand, and its prospects were bright.5
            
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                     soon experienced even more impressive growth. During the depression decade of the 1890s
                    the city's population grew by 20 percent; between 1900 and 1910 the number of residents
                    rose dramatically from 36,673 to 58,157; and by 1920 the city's population was above
                    66,000. This growth rested upon expanding industry and commerce; particularly crucial were the
                    city's choice location and a boom in the local coal industry. The decline of natural gas
                    supplies in the region and the consequent shift of many industries to the use of coal benefitted 
                        Terre Haute
                     immensely through both an increase in local mining payrolls and the larger volume of
                    coal shipped through the city. Many industries also moved in to be close to their source of fuel.
                    Other factories were established to draw upon locally manufactured iron 
                  (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University, 1963), 385–403,
                            briefly describes the strike but seems concerned only with vindicating McNutt's
                            role in it; Frances E. Hughes, "When 
                                Terre Haute
                             Stood Still," The Spectator, September 1, 1979, pp.
                            6–8, is a popular account apparently based on Bush's work; and Robert
                            Roland Drummond, "
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana: A City of Non-Growth" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Geography,
                            Northwestern University, 1953), 181–84, mentions the strike briefly.
                  
                     5 Drummond, "City of Non-Growth," 12–66,
                            is a detailed description of the growth of 
                                Terre Haute
                            ; see also William B. Pickett, "
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana: Causes and Effects of Failure to Grow, 1920–1970" (paper
                            delivered at the Indiana History Conference, 1978), 5; and W. H. Duncan, 1928
                                Industrial Survey of 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , Indiana (
                                Terre Haute
                            , 1928), 1. Alden Cutshall, "
                                Terre Haute
                             Iron and Steel: A Declining Industry," Indiana Magazine
                                of History, XXXVII (September, 1941), 237–44, is a discussion of the
                            local iron and steel industry.
               
                     and steel.6 At the same time the
                    stabilization or continued growth of various older industries further strengthened the
                    city's economy. Railroad car manufacturing and repair also became an important local
                    industry. By 1910 
                        Terre Haute
                     ranked fifth in the state in number of factory workers, and the coal industry of the
                    area was enjoying its peak employment.7 The city also had become a strong union
                    center, as befitted the home of Eugene V. Debs. Preeminent among local unions was the United Mine
                    Workers of America (UMW), which had its district headquarters in 
                        Terre Haute
                    .8 By World War I, in short, 
                        Terre Haute
                     appeared to be a booming city with a bright future. Only in the years immediately
                    following the war did it become clear that the economic foundations of the "Capital of the
                    Wabash Empire" were disastrously weak.9
            
            In the immediate postwar period 
                        Terre Haute
                     was subjected to what one author has called "a series of industrial and social
                    upheavals" and another "an economic debacle."10 Due to an
                    unfortunate conjuncture of technological and political developments, the industrial base of the city
                    was profoundly shaken in the early 1920s. The first blow came with the adoption of nationwide
                    prohibition, which destroyed the local brewing industry and did nearly the same to local distilling.
                    An estimated 3,500 jobs were directly eliminated with prohibition, and such related industries as
                    bottle manufacturing also were severely affected.11 At the same time the
                    area's coal industry was entering a period of depression because of the growing use of
                    petroleum-based fuels and the competition of cheaper, higher-grade coal from nonunion fields in the
                    East. Another blow to local mining was the decline in consumption of coal by a number of 
                        Terre Haute
                     businesses, particularly the local iron and steel mills, which were being eclipsed by
                    the 
                  
                     6 Pickett, "
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana," 4–5.
                  
                     7 Indiana Economic Council, Economic Survey of the 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Area, Part I (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1951), 27; Pickett, "
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana," 5; see also Drummond, "City of
                            Non-Growth," 41–66, for a discussion of the developments during the
                            early twentieth century. The efforts of city leaders to spur economic development are
                            detailed in Robert B. Fairbanks, "Business, Boosterism, and the ‘New 
                                Terre Haute
                            ,’ 1890–1913" (M.A. thesis, Department of History, Indiana
                            State University, 1974).
                  
                     8 Pickett, "
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana," 6–7.
                  
                     9 Cutshall, "
                                Terre Haute
                             Iron and Steel," 237.
                  
                     10 Drummond, "City of Non-Growth," 429; Pickett, "
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana," 3.
                  
                     11 Drummond, "City of Non-Growth,"
                            171–72; Pickett, "
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana," 4; Indiana Economic Council, Economic Survey
                                of the 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Area, 27; Irving Liebowitz, My Indiana (Englewood
                            Cliffs, N.J., 1964), 32; "Starring 
                                Terre Haute
                            ," Business Week (July 27, 1935), 8.
               
                     mills of the Calumet Region.12 Other
                    industries also suffered. In 1923 the Pennsylvania Railroad, apparently concerned about its
                    relations with 
                        Terre Haute
                     labor, moved its repair shops from the city. Several hundred jobs were lost as a
                    result. Railroad traffic also dropped, and the local brick industry declined sharply. All of these
                    problems led to high unemployment and a loss of population in the 1920s, and by the middle of the
                    decade 
                        Terre Haute
                     had fallen to sixteenth place among the state's manufacturing cities.13
            
            These economic problems produced a strong undercurrent of antagonism and distrust between labor and
                    management and a sense of frustration with the city's shocking economic turnaround. Labor
                    was severely affected by the city's depressed economy; unions were hit particularly hard,
                    and by the early 1930s it was reported that the former union stronghold was only 20 percent
                        organized.14 Tensions were exacerbated by the antiunion views of a number of
                    important businessmen, particularly those who dominated the city's Chamber of Commerce.15 The result was increasing friction between labor and management and recurrent
                    labor disputes. Other community leaders, who might have acted as stabilizing influences and
                    encouraged cooperation in facing the city's problems, did not care to lend their services.
                    As Robert R. Drummond has noted, during the 1920s the city's oldest families, apprehensive
                    over labor unrest and economic hardship, "turned their attentions to preserving the family
                    fortunes. Their energies were consumed in maintaining their status quo rather than
                    in engaging in new ventures which might have benefited the city."16
            
            The search for scapegoats further heightened community divisions. The city's middle class
                    saw labor unions—particularly the United Mine Workers, which had engaged in bitter
                    strikes early in the 1920s—as the cause of the city's problems; labor blamed
                    antiunion employers and their vehicle, the Chamber of Commerce; and management blamed labor. These
                    deep divisions and the absence of effective local leadership precluded any far-reaching 
                  
                     12 Drummond, "City of Non-Growth,"
                            172–75; Pickett, "
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana," 7–9; Jack Richard Foster, "Union on
                            Trial: The United Mine Workers of America, District No. 11 of Indiana, 1930–1940"
                            (Ed.D. dissertation, Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, 1967), 33; Cutshall, "
                                Terre Haute
                             Iron and Steel," 241–42; Indiana Economic Council, Economic Survey of the 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Area, 27–28.
                  
                     13 Drummond, "City of Non-Growth, 176–77; Pickett, "
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana," 8; Indiana Economic Council, Economic Survey
                                of the 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Area, 27–28.
                  
                     14 "Starring 
                                Terre Haute
                            ," 8.
                  
                     15 "Oh, the Moonlight's Fair Tonight Along the 
                                Wabash
                            ," Fortune, XIX (May, 1939), 132–33.
                  
                     16 Drummond, "City of Non-Growth," 177.
               
                     program for local redevelopment. 
                        Terre Haute
                     was, by the onset of the Great Depression, a city deeply divided by frustrations and
                    class tensions.17
            
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                    's problems did, however, provide one minor consolation: because of its earlier
                    economic decline, the city was spared the sudden shock of the depression. Its reliance on the
                    food-processing and chemical industries helped it greatly, as these were not hit as hard by the
                    depression as were the durable-goods industries which had been lost to the city in the preceding
                    decade. Indeed, 
                        Terre Haute
                     witnessed a minor economic recovery during the first half of the 1930s. The repeal of
                    prohibition revived the brewing and distilling industries, and brick manufacturers were helped by
                    the demand for construction materials for public works projects. Between 1925 and 1935 the city rose
                    from sixteenth to tenth position among the state's manufacturing centers, but it continued
                    to have serious economic troubles.18 The most notable impact of the Great
                    Depression and the New Deal on 
                        Terre Haute
                     is visible not in the statistics of economic recovery but in the renaissance in the
                    city's labor movement.
            Soon after the passage of the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA), the unions of 
                        Terre Haute
                     began an aggressive organizing drive to recover the power that they had lost after
                    World War I. Under the protection of the act's Section 7 (a), workers in several industries
                    and businesses unionized, frequently after striking to push their demands for recognition. In 1934
                    there were strikes against local milk and lumber companies, paper mills, hothouses, hotels,
                    restaurants, breweries, factories, and the electric company. Issues in these strikes varied, with
                    wages, working conditions, and the distribution of work evenly among employees as frequent themes.
                    Above all union recognition repeatedly was singled out as the key issue, and it was an issue that
                    the unions usually won.19 By August, 1934, the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Advocate, local labor paper and official voice of the city's American
                    Federation of Labor affiliates, could report that nineteen unions had been formed and many old ones
                    rejuvenated in the past year. It also reported that the county's Central Labor Union (CLU),
                    which had been kept alive through labor's hard times by a small band of faithful 
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 179, 429; "Oh, the Moonlight's Fair
                            Tonight," 135; Pickett, "
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana," 11; Liebowitz, My Indiana, 32.
                  
                     18 Indiana Economic Council, Economic Survey of the 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Area, 28; "Oh, the Moonlight's Fair
                            Tonight," 78; Drummond, "City of Non-Growth," 181.
                  
                     19 For coverage of these strikes see 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, January 26, April 6, June 15, 22, 29, July 5, 13, 20, 27, August
                            31, September 21, 1934; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, November 17, 1934.
               
                     unionists, had shared in organized labor's rebirth:
                    "the meetings of the C.L.U. are now as enthusiastic as they were depressing last
                        year."20
            
            Unionists had little doubt as to the cause of this success. F#2 D. Roosevelt's NIRA was a
                    boon to 
                        Terre Haute
                     labor, and labor was quick to show its appreciation. From the passage of the NIRA until
                    the measure was declared unconstitutional two years later, the Advocate repeatedly
                    stressed the importance of the act to the American worker. Such headlines as "UNIONS SCORE
                    VICTORY FOR RIGHTS UNDER NRA" and "Do Not Patronize Those Who Refuse to Display The NRA
                    Blue Eagle" appeared frequently in the newspaper, and local labor organizations sponsored an annual
                    President's Birthday Ball in honor of Roosevelt.21
            
            Union gains continued into early 1935, but local labor relations took on an increasingly hostile
                    tone. Most of the strikes in 1934 had been short and peaceful. In most cases employers had proven
                    conciliatory—perhaps because they felt relief at the prospect of economic recovery,
                    perhaps because they were uncertain how zealously the federal government would carry out the
                    provisions of the NIRA and how the courts would interpret the act, or perhaps because of their
                    longstanding concern with building a reputation for 
                        Terre Haute
                     as a good town for industry to locate in.22 A number of strikes
                    early in 1935 followed the same pattern as the earlier disputes, with union recognition as the
                    principal demand and settlements reached fairly quickly.23
            
            During the first half of 1935, however, both labor and management increasingly came to believe that a
                    showdown with the other side was approaching. A major strike at the local clothing plants of the
                    Stahl-Urban Company revealed the growing tensions in relations between labor and capital in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . As early as September, 1934, a small group of workers at the clothing plants had
                    discussed forming a union, a discussion which immediately cost them their jobs. The following
                    February the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB)—a body 
                        Terre Haute
                     labor frequently appealed to for help in this period—heard their case and
                    recommended that the workers be reinstated. The head of the 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, August 31, September 21, 1934.
                  
                     21 For examples of articles praising the NRA and Roosevelt see 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, November 3, December 29, 1933, June 15, August 31, September 21,
                            December 28, 1934, March 3, April 12, June 14, 1935.
                  
                     22
                            The Nation, CXLI (August 7, 1935), 142–43.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, March 29, 30, April 8, 16, 19, June 10, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, March 27, 28, June 23, 24, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, March 22, 1935.
               
                     company, Carl Stahl, had meanwhile called a meeting of all his
                    employees and laid before them his objections to labor organizations, so the situation was tense
                    when the United Garment Workers of America (UGWA) began organizing the plants in the same month as
                    the NLRB decision. Elizabeth Hogan, a UGWA organizer, soon had a majority of the company's
                    workers on the union rolls. After unsuccessful negotiations concerning union recognition, about 75
                    percent of the company's six hundred employees walked out on March 13. They soon made it
                    clear that they intended to stay out until they secured a union shop contract.24
            
            As had happened often in the preceding two years, the Regional Labor Board in 
                        Indianapolis
                     soon stepped in to mediate the dispute. This time, however, neither side was interested
                    in compromise. The strike quickly grew bitter, with the union charging that the company had refused
                    to recognize it and had instituted a speedup on the production line and the company countering with
                    allegations that most employees had joined the United Garment Workers only under extreme
                        pressure.25 Negotiations dragged on for five weeks, complicated by the
                    formation of a company union and suspicions that the plants were going to reopen with nonunion
                        labor.26 These developments helped solidify union support for the strikers.
                    The Advocate urged all workers to back the garment workers in "the
                    struggle for economic security against industry heads who are today challenging the right of the
                    workers to organize…."27 The United Mine Workers'
                    District 11 convention, meeting at the time, adopted a resolution of support for the strikers, as
                    did a number of UMW locals and the local typographical union.28 It was only
                    after a deadlock of several weeks that federal conciliator Robert Mythen worked out a settlement in
                    which the company recognized the union.29
            
            Like the earlier strikes, the Stahl-Urban dispute had centered on the question of union recognition,
                    the key issue if unionists were to build a strong organization. Although peaceful, this protracted
                    strike revealed increasing friction between labor and management in 
                        Terre Haute
                    : on both sides the rhetoric was becoming 
                  
                     24
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, January 1, February 22, March 15, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, March 15, 1935.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, March 22, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, March 15, 1935.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, March 15, 16, 19, 20, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, April 5, 12, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, March 28, 29, 30, 1935.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, March 27, 1935.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., April 12, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, April 10, 1935.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, April 19, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, April 16, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, April 18, 1935.
               
                     heated and antagonisms were growing. It was in this tense
                    atmosphere that another local strike soon assumed importance.
            The Columbian Enameling and Stamping Company had moved to 
                        Terre Haute
                     around the turn of the century after operating under a different name in Ohio and 
                        Illinois
                    . A manufacturer of enamelware, or enamel-coated metal utensils, the firm was no doubt
                    in part attracted by the availability of coal, iron, and steel in the area, as well as by a city
                    promise not to annex the land on which the company located. The plant thus enjoyed city services
                    without being subject to local taxation. In subsequent years this was the source of some resentment
                    against the company, as was the staunchly antiunion outlook of its management. Columbian workers,
                    although employed in frequently hot, unpleasant, low-paying work, remained unorganized even during
                    local labor's heyday before World War I. Some believed company managers actively prevented
                    organization by using a spy system and discharging prounion workers, and few doubted that the firm
                    was one of the strongest open shop establishments in the city.30 These
                    circumstances created among local unionists an undercurrent of dislike for the company that was to
                    surface during the crisis leading to the general strike.
            Even the Columbian Enameling and Stamping Company was not untouched by the organizing drive of the
                    early New Deal years. Wages, always low, had been cut three times after the onset of the depression.
                    The establishment of an NRA code for the industry, however, brought a substantial raise in pay. More
                    significantly, enameling plant employees were able with the help of AFL organizers and miners from
                    the surrounding area to establish a union, Federal Labor Union No. 19694. By September, 1934, about
                    90 percent of the Columbian workers had joined. Management initially had refused to meet with
                    representatives of the union, but under pressure of a three-day strike and with the efforts of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Regional Labor Board both sides had come together for talks. The company's
                    first union agreement was signed on July 14, 1934. It provided for grievance procedures, seniority,
                    distribution of work among all employees, arbitration of disputes (a "no strike clause"),
                    and other terms. The contract 
                  
                     30 For information on the company see 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune-Star, July 11, 1954; Bush, "
                                Terre Haute
                             General Strike," 2; Cutshall, "
                                Terre Haute
                             Iron and Steel," 241–42; and 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Post-Dispatch, July 23, 1935. Indiana University Oral History Research
                            Project, interview with 
                                Milton
                             Shubert Sebree (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1980), 64, provides a local activist's view of the
                        company.
               
                    
                    
                  Columbian Enameling & Stamping Company
                  Reproduced from The Book of 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , I (December, 1920), 1.
               
                     was effective for one year, although either party could
                    terminate it or reopen negotiations on it after a thirty-day notice.31
            
            To this point the Columbian dispute had followed the prevailing pattern of local labor relations:
                    quick organization of a union local with the help of outside organizers, a brief strike with union
                    recognition as the key issue, and a settlement which granted the union bargaining status. The only
                    difference was that in this case, unlike several other disputes at this time, the company had
                    refused to accede to the closed or union shop, and the union had not sought to press the point.32
            
            The brief strike in July, 1934, was only the beginning of an extended period of labor unrest at
                    Columbian. In August a union plan for establishing an automatic checkoff system whereby membership
                    dues would be deducted from employee paychecks was rejected by the company, which claimed that such
                    a system could not be instituted under Indiana law—a claim labor considered particularly
                    weak because Columbian already handled insurance premium deductions in a similar manner.33 At the same time workers were coming to believe that only a closed shop
                    agreement could insure the survival of the union. The company's establishment of what was
                    known formally as an "athletic club" reinforced their view, for members of the club (all
                    apparently nonunion employees) were believed to be receiving better jobs, treatment, and fringe
                    benefits than did other workers. To union members this seemed clear evidence that the company had
                    not shed its longstanding antiunion views and was working to undermine the organization.
                    Rank-and-file dissatisfaction and pressure for the closed shop grew, forcing union officials to
                    request a renegotiation 
                  
                     31
                            
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Post-Dispatch, July 23, 1935; "Report of Wages Being Paid by 
                                Terre Haute
                             Industries," Drawer 74 (1935), File "
                                Terre Haute
                             Labor Report (Dr. Clyde White)," Paul V. McNutt Collection (Archives
                            Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library and Historical
                            Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Neff, "Paul V. McNutt," 385; Hughes, "When 
                                Terre Haute
                             Stood Still," 6; Bush, "
                                Terre Haute
                             General Strike," passim. Bush devotes a great deal
                            of space to the labor dispute at the Columbian mill from the summer of 1934 through its
                            conclusion early in 1936.
                  
                     32 In a closed shop union membership is a precondition of
                            employment—i.e., only union members can be hired; in a union shop employees are
                            required to join a union after having been hired (usually within a specified period of
                            time). During the organizing drives of the 1930s these terms sometimes were used
                            interchangeably, as the distinction between them does not seem to have been clearly drawn by
                            many people. Those involved in the Columbian strike referred to their demand for a union
                            shop on at least one occasion, and it is possible that such an arrangement as currently
                            defined is what they actually desired; for the most part, however, they used the term closed
                            shop in their demands, and this terminology has been retained here.
                  
                     33 Bush, "
                                Terre Haute
                             General Strike," 4; Hughes, "When 
                                Terre Haute
                             Stood Still," 6.
               
                     of the contract. Talks began in November, 1934. The union,
                    represented by its negotiating committee and AFL organizer Thomas N. Taylor, requested a closed shop
                    and wage increase; company manager Werner Grabbe replied that economic conditions made a raise
                    impossible and that a closed shop violated the principles under which the company always had
                        operated.34
            
            The situation worsened in January, 1935. Early that month the union committee reiterated its demands
                    for a closed shop and wage increase, adding a request that the company lay off any member suspended
                    from the union. The company responded in a manner sure to make matters worse: it sent a circular
                    letter directly to all employees, completely bypassing the union. The letter merely repeated the
                    firm's earlier position; it was the form of the reply which was crucial. By going over the
                    union's head directly to the workers the company seemed to be moving toward a denial of the
                    union's authority to speak for employees. A subsequent union request for arbitration of the
                    dispute brought another circular letter, and by the time the negotiating committee and management
                    again met on March 5 tensions were running high.35
            
            The company's position at the talks removed any doubts among unionists that Columbian
                    intended to destroy the union. Again, all proposals were rejected by the company representatives; a
                    final request that the points of disagreement be arbitrated, as provided for in the 1934 contract,
                    also was rejected. Union leaders were uncertain about what action to take. Officials of the Central
                    Labor Union apparently counseled patience, but rank-and-file pressure, particularly for the closed
                    shop, was too strong for leaders to resist. On March 23 a strike was called. An estimated 450 union
                    members, about 90 percent of the organized workers and 75 percent of the company's work
                    force, walked out. Company president Charles B. Gorby's response was an announcement that
                    the plant would close March 30 for an indefinite period.36
            
            Several attempts to settle the strike followed. Soon after it began, Department of Labor conciliator
                    Mythen, who was working on the Stahl-Urban strike, interceded in the Columbian dispute. After
                    meeting with both sides Mythen concluded that the union's demand for a closed shop was
                    reasonable. The company, however, 
                  
                     34 Bush, "
                                Terre Haute
                             General Strike," 4–6; "Starring 
                                Terre Haute
                            ," passim; Hughes, "When 
                                Terre Haute
                             Stood Still," 6; Neff, "Paul V. McNutt," 385.
                  
                     35 Bush, "
                                Terre Haute
                             General Strike," 6–7; Neff, "Paul V.
                            McNutt," 386; Hughes, "When 
                                Terre Haute
                             Stood Still," 6.
                  
                     36 Bush, "
                                Terre Haute
                             General Strike," 7–9; Hughes, "When 
                                Terre Haute
                             Stood Still," 6; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, March 27, 1935; Neff, "Paul V. McNutt,"
                        386.
               
                     refused to discuss this possibility, and Mythen was in no
                    position to force a settlement on the union's terms. Local efforts at mediation were not
                    fruitful either, for the company refused to discuss the closed shop issue. The union, meanwhile, was
                    picketing the plant and had established, with the help of other local labor organizations, a
                    commissary to help support workers idled by the strike.37
            
            The rapid resurgence of organized labor in 
                        Terre Haute
                     between 1933 and 1935 had fostered a strong sense of unity among local workers, a unity
                    which was reflected in the care with which the Advocate detailed the progress of
                    all labor disputes in the city and the frequency with which union locals adopted resolutions of
                    support for and lent aid to striking organizations. The Columbian strikers from the beginning
                    received such encouragement. As early as March 27 the Advocate expressed support
                    for the workers at the enamelware plant.38 The UMW's district
                    convention voted to lend "every measure of cooperation and help that we can possibly give"
                    to the strikers. Many local labor organizations contributed to the Columbian strikers'
                    commissary; in May, for instance, the Advocate noted that twenty-four UMW locals,
                    forty-three craft unions, and "a host of friends and sympathizers" had subscribed to the
                    commissary fund.39
            
            As spring passed, the dispute at the enameling plant drew increasing attention from local labor,
                    becoming something of a cause célèbre. This was, no doubt,
                    partly because the Columbian dispute was the only major strike in progress at the time. Other
                    considerations also led local unionists to see the Columbian strike as significant for all of 
                        Terre Haute
                     labor. The enameling plant union was, as the Advocate noted,
                    "the strongest and largest of the newer unions in 
                        Terre Haute
                    ." The company's longstanding reputation as an antiunion employer and
                    the consequent hostility toward it also increased interest in the strike's outcome. Most
                    important was the growing belief among unionists that the Columbian management's actions
                    were the first steps in a major employer conspiracy designed to crush organized labor in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The latter view was based on both the longstanding enmity between labor and some of 
                        Terre Haute
                    's largest employers and the actions of Columbian Enameling in dealing with the
                        strike.40
            
            
               
                  37
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Star, March 29, 1935; 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Advocate, March 27, April 12, May 10, 1935; Bush, "
                            Terre Haute
                         General Strike," 10; Hughes, "When 
                            Terre Haute
                         Stood Still," 6–7.
               
                  38
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Advocate, March 27, 1935.
               
                  39
                        Ibid., April 12, May 10, 24, 1935; 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Tribune, April 2, 1935.
               
                  40
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Advocate, March 27, 1935; Sebree interview, 64.
            
            
            By May the situation was critical. The company still refused to enter into negotiations as long as
                    the closed shop was a union demand. Efforts at arbitration by the Department of Labor and the mayor
                    had proven futile, no community leaders seemed to have the influence needed to get both sides to
                    resume negotiations, and the strike was at an impasse. At the same time the Supreme Court was
                    preparing to decide the constitutionality of the NIRA; on May 27, in the Schechter decision, the
                    court found the act unconstitutional. For 
                        Terre Haute
                     labor this ruling was a serious blow. The NIRA had provided the impetus for the
                    organizing drive that had brought labor back as a major force in the city, and it was widely
                    believed that management would attempt to wipe out labor's gains as soon as the
                    act's legal umbrella was removed. Even members of the Chamber of Commerce recognized
                    labor's fears about the decision, and the group urged employers to comply voluntarily with
                    the former NRA codes to allay the prevalent "feeling of apprehension and unrest" and the
                    fear that employers might "adopt the policy of reducing wages or changing working
                    conditions to the detriment of labor."41
            
            On May 28 the Central Labor Union sponsored a parade and mass meeting in support of the Columbian
                    strikers. Over two thousand union members and sympathizers from the city and the surrounding area
                    heard Thomas N. Taylor, president of the Indiana Federation of Labor and AFL organizer, tell them:
                    "It's your union that's in jeopardy …. The working people of
                    this city cannot afford to lose this strike." Taylor traced the background of the strike,
                    charging that managers of the Columbian company had attempted to sow dissension among workers and
                    had violated the 1934 agreement with the union by refusing to accept arbitration. The Reverend James
                    Kelly, pastor of the Community Church, urged vigilance against any attempt by employers to take
                    advantage of the Supreme Court's NIRA decision. "If the employing class takes
                    advantage of the situation," he said, "… I believe all organized labor
                    must rise and say, ‘Gentlemen, it must not be done!’" Other speakers included
                    UMW District 11 vicepresident Charles Funcannon, who praised the solidarity of 
                        Terre Haute
                    's unions and pledged the miners' continued support to the Columbian
                    strikers; United Garment Workers organizer Elizabeth Hogan, who thanked 
                        Terre Haute
                     unionists for their support of the striking garment workers; and CLU vice-president Max
                    Schafer. The assembly also voted to urge Congresswoman Virginia Jenckes to support the Wagner Bill,
                    then under consideration 
                  
                     41
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, May 30, June 7, 12, 1935.
               
                     in Congress, and "other legislation endorsed by the
                    American Federation of Labor."42
            
            The Columbian Enameling and Stamping Company's subsequent actions could hardly have been
                    more effective in fulfilling labor's worst fears. Many, in fact, believed that the company
                    set out to provoke trouble. Regardless of their intentions, company officials soon seemed to be
                    moving in precisely the direction labor expected: toward an assault on the enameling
                    workers' union and thus, indirectly, on all organized labor. On June 11 company officials
                    met again with union representatives. The company took its firmest stance yet, with manager Grabbe
                    informing the union negotiators that in the future the management would have no further dealings
                    with the union and that if the plant reopened it would do so only on a nonunion basis. Here, it
                    seemed to unionists, was the beginning of the expected employer offensive against organized labor.
                    Even Regional Labor Director Robert Cowdrill believed that the company was taking advantage of the
                    NIRA nullification by refusing to negotiate with the union or accept mediation.43 Soon the company was sending representatives to talk to striking employees in their homes
                    to tell them, as the Advocate wryly noted, "how much the company loves
                    them when they don't belong to the union." The union responded by issuing an
                    appeal through the press for "a citizens' protest against the proposed operation
                    of the plant with strikebreakers." Local unions passed resolutions urging the governor,
                    mayor, and sheriff to "refuse to assist this company in their exploitation of workers,
                    their evasion of taxes and their uncompromising antagonism to Labor by furnishing, commissioning or
                    authorizing any police, deputy sheriffs, or other armed guards to assist them in re-opening the
                        plant…."44
            
            In the wake of the Supreme Court's NIRA decision belated efforts were made by other
                    community leaders to defuse the situation. The Chamber of Commerce's appeal for continued
                    observation of NRA standards was one such effort; the Chamber also established a three-member
                    committee to act as a go-between and conciliator for local employers and employees. Thus far the
                    press had said little about the growing labor crisis, apparently, as The
                    
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., May 31, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, May 29, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, May 29, 1935; Bush, "
                                Terre Haute
                             General Strike," 10–11.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, June 12, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, June 14, 1935; Bush, "
                                Terre Haute
                             General Strike," 12.
                  
                     44
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, June 14, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, June 12, 15, 1935; a copy of the resolution is available in Drawer
                            74 (1935), File "
                                Terre Haute
                             Strike (Letters Protesting Action)," McNutt Collection.
               
                    
                    Nation later put it, because the business leaders of 
                        Terre Haute
                     wanted "new enterprises which in turn want cheap labor and the open shop.
                    Naturally the newspapers play down ‘labor disturbances.’ "45 By June, however, the local press had joined the Chamber of Commerce in
                    urging that both sides in labor disputes consider the good of the community. The 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Tribune stressed that "the chief ingredient of prosperity is peace" and
                    seconded the Chamber's view that "any community which gives way to disorder and
                    unrest can hardly expect industry to seek out that community as a happy location." The
                    Chamber reiterated its desire to help maintain industrial peace in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , such peace being essential to "developing and retaining the industries we now
                    have and bringing additional industries to 
                        Terre Haute
                    ."46
            
            It was, however, too late for such half-hearted efforts at conciliation. Company actions had firmly
                    convinced local labor that the Columbian plant soon would open with nonunion labor.47 This belief received apparent confirmation on Saturday, June 15, when several armed,
                    uniformed private guards were seen entering the plant, which to that point had been guarded only by
                    a small contingent of city police. Because there had been no violence connected with the
                    strike—one contemporary recalls that "the policemen and the pickets would play
                    cards all day long and fraternize and everything was peaceful"48—the appearance of private guards seemed clear evidence that the company was
                    preparing to defend and reopen the plant. By noon a large crowd of strikers and sympathizers had
                    gathered at the plant as news of the guards spread, and some windows were broken by flying rocks.
                    Local police were able to maintain order, and the situation remained calm until early Sunday morning
                    when a large crowd moved against the plant, overrunning police lines and forcing entry. In the
                    ensuing riot the demonstrators left little doubt as to the focus of their anger: according to press
                    reports, "the executives' desks were overturned, telephones were smashed, the
                    telephone exchange was demolished, clocks were pulled from the walls and typewriters and office
                    machines were thrown to the floor." Only the offices were attacked; except for broken
                    windows the actual manufacturing areas were not harmed. The special guards proved a bad investment:
                    when the mob broke in, they departed for remote areas of the factory complex until order was
                    restored by police 
                  
                     45
                            The Nation, CXLI (August 7, 1935), 143.
                  
                     46
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, May 30, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, June 6, 18, 1935.
                  
                     47
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, June 14, 1935.
                  
                     48 Sebree interview, 64.
               
                    
                    
                  STRIKERS AND SYMPATHIZERS AT THE
                                COLUMBIAN ENAMELING AND STAMPING COMPANY
                  
                  Martin Collection; courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     and sheriffs deputies. The guards were removed under police
                    escort Sunday afternoon.49
            
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                     organized labor disavowed any connection with the incident, with the Advocate attributing it to a "mob of mistaken supporters" enraged by the
                    company's importation of guards. Clearly, the paper argued, such disorder was precisely
                    what the company had hoped to trigger by bringing in "armed and uniformed guards."
                    Both the Advocate and the strike committee asserted that this transparent effort
                    to discredit the union had failed, and strike leaders announced that they would prevent such trouble
                    in the future by organizing strikers into an around-the-clock guard to protect company property.50 No arrests followed the riot, and the composition of the mob never was
                    determined; but the violence clearly was aimed at symbols of management and must have had at least
                    informal direction. It seems likely that some of the "outside sympathizers" were area
                    miners, who still were lending strong support to the Columbian strikers and who had long experience
                    with direct action in labor disputes. Others involved seem to have represented a cross section of 
                        Terre Haute
                     labor; referring to the incident local activist Shubert Sebree recalled that in
                    addition to UMW members "people from all over the city took part in it."51
            
            The riot at the mill spurred yet another effort at mediation. On June 19 another Department of Labor
                    conciliator, J. E. O'Connor, arrived in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and went to work trying to arrange a resumption of negotiations. Mayor Sam Beecher
                    appointed a citizens' committee to aid O'Connor in any way possible; members
                    included prominent local employers, the president of the city's ministerial association,
                    UMW District 11's president, the head of the Central Labor Union, and a representative of
                    the Strip Mine Operators' Association. The federal conciliator was unable to make any
                    progress. Neither side was prepared to give up its demands, and in this period between the end of
                    the NRA and the implementation of the Wagner Act the Department of Labor could bring little pressure
                    to bear in the matter. The Chamber of Commerce also continued its efforts to "promote a
                    better understanding between employees and employers …."52
            
            
               
                  49
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Advocate, June 21,1935; 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Tribune, June 17,1935; quotation from 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Star, June 17, 1935; Bush, "
                            Terre Haute
                         General Strike," 13–14; Sebree interview, 64–65;
                        Neff, "Paul V. McNutt," 387; Raymond Jack Raley, "A General History
                        of the 
                            Terre Haute
                         Typographical Union" (A.M. thesis, Department of Economics, Indiana State
                        University, 1962), 33.
               
                  50
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Advocate, June 21, 1935; 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Tribune, June 17,1935; 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Star, June 17, 1935.
               
                  51 Sebree interview, 65.
               
                  52
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Tribune, June 20, July 1, 1935.
            
            
            These renewed efforts at mediation proved fruitless, and in the face of the continued deadlock
                    tensions grew. By the beginning of July the Chamber of Commerce's industrial expansion
                    committee—charged with attracting new industry to 
                        Terre Haute
                    —was in a less than conciliatory mood. The committee called a meeting at the
                    Hotel Deming; the 125 local businessmen who attended heard speakers denounce the "outside
                    agitators" who "are not only preventing the gaining of new industries for the city, but are
                    putting the city in danger of losing some of the industries it now has." Speakers, who
                    included Chamber president Isaac Silverstein and other figures prominent in the organization,
                    decried the influence "paid organizers" and "radicals" from outside had come to
                    exert over 
                        Terre Haute
                     labor. These "false teachers and false prophets" had brought in a new and
                    dangerous philosophy of natural enmity between employers and employees. Recent troubles, the
                    speakers argued, meant that 
                        Terre Haute
                    , "which a few months ago was recognized as one of the brightest spots in the
                    country, was not only having its standing greatly impaired because of strikes and labor troubles,
                    but that it was in danger of losing several existing industries …." The only
                    solution was for city and county authorities to beef up their law enforcement capabilities with more
                    officers and increased expenditures. Police Chief Lewis Wheeler and Sheriff William Baker both spoke
                    at the meeting, as did Deputy City Attorney William Littlefield. Wheeler pledged future cooperation
                    with the group, which was envisioned as an ongoing organization, and indicated that he would
                    investigate for possible local adoption an 
                        Indianapolis
                     ordinance which forbade crowds to gather around plants where strikes were in
                        progress.53
            
            The Chamber meeting marked the end of any hopes that that organization might be able to serve as a
                    mediator in the strike. The next day the Columbian union charged Chamber officials with
                    misrepresentation and an "undemocratic, un-American attitude" and notified the
                    organization's negotiating committee that "further negotiations with your
                    committee on public relations is [sic] not desirable."54 To the union it seemed that the Chamber had come down on the side of the Columbian
                    management in its drive to crush the union and that local law enforcement officials apparently were
                    willing to support the effort.
            The final blow to labor peace came two weeks later. On July 17 the Columbian Company brought some
                    fifty guards to Terre 
                  
                     53
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, July 2,1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, July 2, 1935; see also Raley, "
                                Terre Haute
                             Typographical Union," 33–34.
                  
                     54
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, July 3, 1935.
               
                     Haute, most of them recruited in the 
                        Chicago
                     area with the assistance of the National Metal Trades Association, an antiunion
                    manufacturers' organization. The union appealed to city officials to stop the guards from
                    entering 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; the city's response was to provide a police escort into the plant for the men
                    and a carload of guns and ammunition that they brought with them. Once inside, the men were armed
                    with shotguns and submachine guns and placed on guard duty.55 Such a force
                    obviously was too small to operate a plant the size of the Columbian; the guards, rather, were
                    brought in to provide protection for nonunion workers who subsequently would be hired to work there.
            Labor's response was immediate. On Friday, July 19, representatives of nearly fifty local
                    labor unions met to discuss the situation. Most of the unions concerned were affiliated with the
                    AFL, but the meeting had no formal connection with the county's Central Labor Union; no
                    minutes of the meeting exist, and subsequent discussions of it were vague. It is, therefore,
                    impossible to determine who first suggested a general strike as a possible course of action. The
                    subject was not a new one, however. A year earlier local unionists had discussed a possible general
                    strike in sympathy with a strike against the local packing plants;56 1934 also
                    saw the general strike in 
                        San Francisco
                     and threats of similar stoppages in 
                        Toledo
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    ; and in June, 1935, a threatened general strike in 
                        South Bend
                     had been narrowly averted.57 Wherever the initial suggestion came
                    from, there was near unanimity on the need for a firm response to the importation of the guards.
                    Representatives of forty-eight unions voted a "labor holiday" to take effect unless
                    "strike breakers are deported … by or before 1 A. M. Monday, July 22,
                    1935." According to a resolution issued to the local papers, the strike was to continue
                    until the guards were removed; some accounts later indicated that the strike originally was to last
                    only twenty-four hours but continued longer because strike leaders were unable to convince union
                    members to return to work.58
            
            
               
                  55
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, July 23, 1935; Bush, "
                            Terre Haute
                         General Strike," 16; the Advocate on July 26, 1935,
                        estimated the number of guards as between sixty and seventy. See Bernstein, Turbulent Years, 38–40, for the response of the National Metal Trades
                        Association and similar employer groups to the union upsurge under NIRA.
               
                  56
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, July 5, 1934.
               
                  57
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Star, June 19, 1935.
               
                  58
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Tribune, July 20,1935; 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Star, July 20,1935; 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Advocate, July 26, 1935; 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, July 23, 1935; 
                            St. Louis
                        
                        Post-Dispatch, July 22, 1935; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, July 22, 1935; "Oh, the Moonlight's Fair
                        Tonight," 135; Bush, "
                            Terre Haute
                         General Strike," 17; Neff, "Paul V. McNutt," 388.
                        Probably the most important union not to strike was the typographical union, which claimed that
                        participation would be a violation of its contract; see Raley, "
                            Terre Haute
                         Typographical Union," 34.
            
            
            The American Federation of Labor long had opposed the general strike as a tactic in labor
                        disputes,59 so local AFL affiliates and their leaders were placing
                    themselves in a dangerous position by participating. Officially, the Central Labor Union had no ties
                    with the general strike movement. Most local labor leaders also tried to disassociate themselves and
                    their organizations from the tactic, portraying it as a wildcat strike begun directly by militant
                        rank-and-filers.60 To a certain extent this view no doubt was accurate.
                    Union members' support for the Columbian strikers clearly was strong, and response to the
                    general strike call was overwhelmingly favorable. Without rank-and-file pressure on union leaders
                    this one local strike probably would not have assumed the vital importance it came to have in local
                    labor circles.
            Yet the disavowals of support by union leaders do not quite ring true; it seems likely that some
                    local labor leaders, despite their public pronouncements, also played important roles in the strike.
                    AFL organizer Taylor, for instance, had, according to one report, suggested to officers of the CLU
                    that they call a general sympathy strike and later had gone to local union leaders with the idea,
                    convincing many of them of its value and thus paving the way for the July 19 meeting and strike
                    call. During the strike itself, Taylor acted as local representative of AFL president William Green
                    and was instrumental in getting the shutdown ended. At one point midway through the crisis, however,
                    he went so far as to urge strikers to hold firm in their demand for removal of the Columbian
                        strikebreakers.61 Labor leaders also seem to have helped coordinate the
                    strike. Because the shutdown technically was unauthorized, it was not directed by a formal committee
                    of union officials; rather, an ad hoc committee of about ten members was put together to coordinate
                    the effort. This committee met frequently during the strike. At no time was its membership revealed,
                    nor did it issue any direct statements to the public; all of its efforts seem to have been informal,
                    its authority tacit. According to one local activist, the committee was composed of unionists who
                    were careful not to involve their unions in the 
                  
                     59 Later in 1935 the AFL refused to endorse even general industrial
                            strikes— strikes cutting across union lines but confined to a single industry;
                            see American Federation of Labor, Report of Proceedings of the Fifty-Ninth
                                Annual Convention of the American Federation of Labor … (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1935).
                  
                     60
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Daily Tribune, July 23, 1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 23, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, July 22, 1935; 
                                St. Louis
                             Post-Dispatch, July 22, 1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 23, 1935; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 23, 1935; Neff, "Paul V. McNutt," 388;
                            Drummond, "City of Non-Growth," 181.
                  
                     61 "Oh, the Moonlight's Fair Tonight," 135; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, July 23, 1935; "Labor Department's Conciliation
                            Service Scores Another Success in 
                                Terre Haute
                             Labor Holiday," News-Week, VI (August 3, 1935),
                            5–6.
               
                     situation: if there were repercussions, "they wanted
                    the blame to fall on them as individuals rather than upon the unions which could be fined and
                    punished severely." Even the Central Labor Union's disavowal of support for the
                    strike loses some of its force in the face of CLU president Leroy Musgrave's public comment
                    that "our people will not stand for the presence of these out-of-town men in the plant and
                    they stayed away from their respective jobs to show that they mean it."62
            
            Regardless of who was directing affairs, the strike was effectively organized in its early stages. On
                    Sunday afternoon a mass meeting was held on the courthouse steps. Over three thousand people heard
                    several local union leaders urge members to support the labor holiday. The crowd also learned that a
                    last-minute attempt by the mayor to mediate the Columbian strike had failed when company officials
                    once again refused to participate. Union officials known to oppose a general strike were prevented
                    from speaking, and the crowd registered its approval of a total shutdown of the city. Throughout the
                    night preparations continued; ice, bread, and milk deliveries were made late Sunday night to beat
                    the 1:00 a.m. strike deadline.63
            
            The labor holiday began on schedule, with public transportation in the city shutting down at the
                    appointed hour. By mid-morning workers at the city's major industrial plants had been
                    informed that the strike was in progress and had walked out in support. Unionized employees of
                    restaurants, retail stores, gas stations, barber shops, and other businesses took part, and the few
                    establishments that attempted to stay open soon were visited by one of the bands of strikers
                    patrolling the city and told to close up. Few ignored the advice. Miners from the several area UMW
                    locals that were participating in the general strike played a major role in enforcing the shutdown.
                    Despite an attempt to sabotage a local power line, utility service to the city was uninterrupted;
                    hospitals and the post office were unaffected; drugstores were allowed to operate their prescription
                    counters but forced to close their soda fountains. Some local residents, anticipating trouble, had
                    laid in extra supplies, but others were able to travel to surrounding communities to buy gasoline
                    and food. Because of this, as well as the special Sunday night deliveries of perishables, few 
                  
                     62 Sebree interview, 66–68; 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Post-Dispatch, July 22, 1935.
                  
                     63
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, July 26,1935; 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Post-Dispatch, July 22,1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 22, 1935.
               
                    
                    
                  TERRE HAUTE CITIZENS READING GOVERNOR PAUL V. MCNUTT'S PROCLAMATION OF MARTIAL LAW IN VIGO COUNTY
                  
                  Martin Collection; courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                experienced any real hardships on Monday. Aside from scattered fistfights no violence
                    occurred during the first day of the strike. A crowd of demonstrators gathered at the Columbian
                    plant and jeered the guards but made no attempt to force entry. By midday the strike was estimated
                    at 90 percent effective, with over twenty thousand workers participating. Business in 
                        Terre Haute
                     was, as News-Week put it, shut down "tight as a drum."64
            
            
               
                  64 Contemporary newspapers provide the best accounts of the strike,
                        although they sometimes contradict one another and frequently focus on different developments;
                        see 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, July 23, 24, 25, 26, 1935; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, July 22, 23, 24, 1935; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Times, July 23, 1935; 
                            St. Louis
                        
                        Post-Dispatch, July 22, 23, 1935; 
                            Washington
                        
                        Post, July 23, 1935; 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Daily Tribune, July 23, 24, 25, 26, 1935; 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, July 23, 24, 25, 1935; 
                            London
                        
                        Times, July 23, 24,25,26,1935; 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Advocate, July 26,1935. Publication of 
                            Terre Haute
                        's daily newspapers, the Tribune and the Star, was
                        disrupted by the strike, but they managed to cover local developments; see 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Tribune, July 22, 24, 25, 1935, and 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Star, July 24, 25,1935. Other discussions of the events of the strike include
                        Bush, "
                            Terre Haute
                         General Strike," 21–30; Neff, "Paul V.
                        McNutt," 389–90; Hughes, "When 
                            Terre Haute
                         Stood Still," 8; "
                            Terre Haute
                         No. 3 General Strike City," Literary Digest, CXX (August
                        3, 1935), 9; "Labor Department's Conciliation Service," 5; and B. K.
                        Gebert, "The General Strike in 
                            Terre Haute
                        ," The Communist, XIV (September, 1935),
                        800–801.
            
            
            The initial response by government officials was calm. The prevailing orderliness meant that law
                    enforcement officers were able to keep the situation under control. However, leading businessmen and
                    manufacturers spent most of the day closeted in the office of the secretary of the Chamber of
                    Commerce. Alarmed by the situation, they pressured local officials to request that National Guard
                    troops be sent to 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; it was particularly difficult to get the cooperation of Sheriff Baker, who
                    "maintained until early afternoon that because the good-humored mainly native American mob
                    … had committed no disorders he ‘had the situation perfectly in
                    hand’ and needed no assistance from the National Guard."65
                    By later in the afternoon, though, the mayor, sheriff, chief of police, prosecuting attorney, and
                    members of the Board of Public Works and Safety had come to accept the need for outside assistance,
                    and they telegraphed Governor Paul V. McNutt that 
                        the strike situation in 
                                Terre Haute
                             is beyond our control…. We cannot maintain law and
                            order…. Citizens are calling in constantly. Mobs are closing stores and most all
                            business is closed, cutting off food and milk supplies. Bus, street car and taxi service
                            [are] suspended. Oil stations are closed. We consider the situation serious enough to
                            warrant the protection of the state militia before night.66
                  
                    
            
            Had those in charge of the strike been able to guarantee that it would be brief and could be brought
                    to an abrupt end on short notice, perhaps this appeal for outside help could have been forestalled.
                    The evident disagreement over how long the strike would continue lent an air of uncertainty to an
                    already tense situation and may well have fueled the belief that the National Guard would be needed.
            The request for troops received an immediate and favorable response. Democrat Paul V. McNutt was a
                    pro-New Deal governor with a generally progressive reputation and a record of supporting prolabor
                    legislation. As one observer has noted, he also "admitted that he distrusted anything
                    smacking of radicalism. And his definition of radicalism was a broad one."67 Certainly a general strike that effectively brought an entire city to a halt must have met
                    this definition, for McNutt was quick to declare a state of martial law for all of 
                        Vigo County
                     beginning at 5:00 p.m., July 22, and 
                  
                     65
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Post, July 23, 1935.
                  
                     66 A transcript of the telegram is included in the brief of Otis Cox
                            vs. Paul V McNutt, Drawer 102 (1936), file "
                                Terre Haute
                             Labor Dispute," McNutt Collection
                  
                     67 Harold Zink, "Paul V. McNutt," in J. T. Selter,
                            ed., The American Politician (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1938), 72.
               
                    
                    
                  NATIONAL GUARD TROOPS PROCEEDING DOWN WABASH AVENUE IN TERRE HAUTE
                  
                  Martin Collection; courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                to order National Guard units to the area. The first troops arrived that evening. Under
                    the terms of the martial law proclamation the county was put under control of the military
                    authorities, assemblies could be held only with permission, and the authorities had the power to
                    control movement into and out of the county.68 By Tuesday some 1,100 troops were
                    in the city.
            Those who thought that life would immediately return to normal with the presence of soldiers were
                    mistaken. On Monday evening, soon after martial law became effective, an unathorized meeting to
                    protest against the use of troops was called; Thomas Taylor told an enthusiastic crowd that local
                    government was "working to defeat labor."69 On Tuesday morning
                    businesses throughout the city gradually began reopening under the protection of National Guard
                    patrols. Buses, taxis, and streetcars resumed 
                  
                     68 The governor's proclamation is reprinted in 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, July 23,1935, and 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, July 26, 1935. McNutt used troops in other labor disturbances
                            during his governorship: 
                                Sullivan County
                             was under martial law from 1933 to 1936 because of labor unrest in the coal
                            fields there, and in January, 1936, a garment workers' strike resulted in troops
                            being sent to Clark and Floyd counties; see Neff, "Paul V. McNutt,"
                            377–84, 403–404.
                  
                     69
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 23, 1935.
               
                     operations with guardsmen as passengers. Some factories opened
                    again. But throughout the day demonstrators gathered at the Columbian plant, where a large
                    contingent of troops was stationed. Three times guardsmen used tear gas and rifle butts to disperse
                    the crowds, and by the end of the day over 150 arrests had been made. Several minor injuries were
                        reported.70
            
            At the same time labor felt mounting pressure from other quarters to end the strike. International
                    unions continued to urge their 
                        Terre Haute
                     locals not to participate in the labor holiday.71 There also were
                    alarming reports that local employers were considering using the general strike as an excuse for
                    terminating the many union contracts that had been signed over the past two years.72
            
            Supporters of the labor holiday were also unable to derive much comfort from press coverage of the
                    event. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News, terming the strikers "insurrectionists," called the
                    general strike an "offense … against the community." According to the
                    newspaper, Governor McNutt's decision to send in the National Guard had been proper.
                    Clearly, the News editorialized, no responsible trade union leaders could be
                    involved in the situation, for such leaders would realize that the strike could only prejudice the
                    community against organized labor. The labor holiday was, rather, the work of a group of
                    "disturbers," local unionists frustrated by their inability to win a local strike
                    "and lacking the resourcefulness to engage either public or private mediators to bring
                    about a settlement." This view was typical of those expressed in regional newspapers during
                    and immediately after the strike. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star concurred with the News, seeing the labor holiday as an
                    unauthorized action perpetrated by people whose enthusiasm overruled their judgment and stressing
                    that "reason should not be abrogated by resort to force …." Perhaps the
                    most extreme view of the strike appeared in the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Daily Tribune a few days after the conclusion of the labor holiday. Terming the
                    general strike "an attack upon the city and the peaceable citizens," the Tribune floridly described it as "a touch of Russia, of Kerensky going
                    down under the Reds" and "an admonition 
                  
                     70
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, July 23, 1935; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 24, 1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 23, 1935; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Daily Tribune, July 23,1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 22, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, July 24, 1935.
                  
                     71
                            
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Post-Dispatch, July 22, 1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 23, 1935.
                  
                     72 Most of these contracts contained a provision requiring the union
                            to give prior notice before staging a walkout; because the general strike was an ad hoc move
                            with which the local unions had no official connection, they had not been able to provide
                            this warning; see 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 24, 1935.
               
                     of end results under the New Deal."73 Newspaper coverage of the strike also spread tales of threatened food and fuel shortages
                    and babies deprived of milk, the latter a particularly popular, although unsubstantiated, report.74
            
            At the same time hopes for a settlement of the Columbian strike seemed brighter. Upon hearing of the
                    labor holiday in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Department of Labor secretary Frances Perkins issued a statement placing primary
                    responsibility for the situation on the management of the enameling plant. Perkins dispatched
                    department conciliators Charles Richardson and Harry Scheck to the city to reopen negotiations in
                    the dispute. The chances that this could be accomplished seemed to improve a day or so later when
                    company president Gorby issued statements indicating his willingness to meet with employee
                    representatives and remove the special guards if adequate guarantees of protection for the plant
                    could be secured.75
            
            Despite the presence of the National Guard and the reopening of many local businesses and factories,
                    the general strike remained partially effective on Tuesday. By afternoon, though, the pressures from
                    union officials, state and local government, and public opinion for an end to it were becoming
                    irresistible. There were, moreover, disturbing reports that mine operators in the area were going to
                    protest to UMW president John L. Lewis about the walkouts of UMW locals in support of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     strikers, claiming that these walkouts violated the union's national contract.
                    Rumors also were spreading that groups of miners from outside the area were planning to come in to
                    participate in the shutdown and that attempts were going to be made to stop all gas and water
                        service.76 Day-long conferences between conciliators Scheck and Richardson,
                    union representatives, and Taylor finally brought the strike to an end. On the evening of Tuesday,
                    July 23, Taylor read over a local radio station a request from officers of the enameling plant union
                    that the general strike be stopped because it had accomplished its purpose and "the
                    Department of Labor is now able to handle the situation."77 The 
                  
                     73
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 23,1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 24,1935; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Daily Tribune, July 26,1935. For other editorial comment see 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 25, 1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 26, 1935; and 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, July 24, 1935.
                  
                     74
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 23, 1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 24, 1935; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Daily Tribune, July 26, 1935.
                  
                     75
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, July 23, 1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 24, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, July 26, 1935.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 24, 1935.
                  
                     77 "Labor Department's Conciliation
                            Service," 6; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 24, 1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 24, 1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 24, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, July 24, 1935.
               
                    
                    
                  NATIONAL GUARD TROOPS IN FRONT OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL GUARD ARMORY, NORTH NINTH STREET,
                                TERRE HAUTE
                  
                  Martin Collection; courtesy Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     decision was not popular with everyone: late that night a crowd
                    of about five hundred gathered at the Columbian plant, only to be dispersed again by tear gas.78 The next day, however, things began to return to normal except for the
                    continued presence of several hundred troops. As it turned out, the main result of the general
                    strike was to be not a settlement of the Columbian dispute but a protracted period of martial law, a
                    situation which caused deep local divisions for several months.
            Under the terms of the governor's proclamation, all of 
                        Vigo County
                     was placed under the control of the military authorities; the county's civil
                    officials were technically agents of the military, and there was close cooperation between the two.
                    Military permission was required for public assemblies, no persons except police and military
                    personnel could carry weapons, and the authorities had the right (apparently little exercised) to
                    prevent persons from entering or leaving the county. Shortly after the end of the general strike
                    nearly all troops were removed from 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and by the end of the week many martial law restrictions were being only loosely
                    enforced. The military commander remained behind after the soldiers departed, with local government
                    officials and law enforcement officers carrying out his directives.79
            
            Despite frequently lax enforcement and the quick withdrawal of most guardsmen, the martial law
                    provisions had an immediate effect on 
                        Terre Haute
                     labor. The declaration of martial law had not by itself broken the general strike: as
                    one newspaper noted, "the alacrity with which [local businessmen] got their cash registers
                    in operation" after the union statement ending the strike "left little doubt as to the
                    strength of the influences that had closed the city."80 Continued minor
                    disturbances in the city throughout the rest of the week also made it clear that many Terre Hauteans
                    were not intimidated by the soldiers and the suspension of civil government.81
                    But restrictions on gatherings did contribute to the pressure to end the strike by making illegal
                    the tactics that had been used to enforce it. The declaration of martial law also figured
                    prominently in press accounts of the crisis, contributing to the widespread picture of 
                        Terre Haute
                     as a city engulfed by anarchy.82 More important than these
                    immediate 
                  
                     78
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 24, 1935.
                  
                     79
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, July 25, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, July 26, 1935.
                  
                     80
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 24, 1935.
                  
                     81
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, July 25, 1935; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 25, 1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 25, 26, 1935; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Daily Tribune, July 26, 1935.
                  
                     82 See, for example, 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Post-Dispatch, July 23,1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, July 23, 1935; 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Daily Tribune, July 24, 1935; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 24, 1935; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 24, 1935.
               
                     effects, however, were the long-term consequences of martial
                    law. 
                        Vigo County
                     remained a military district until the following February; because of its duration,
                    martial law itself became a political issue, eventually overshadowing even the Columbian strike.
            With the strike lost as an effective tool, solution of the Columbian dispute was left to the
                    Department of Labor. For several days the local press carried reports of the activities of the
                    conciliators, who conferred with local government officials, union representatives, and company
                    managers. Despite continued reports that negotiations were about to begin, it soon became clear that
                    the hopes of a negotiated settlement were futile. On August 1 Columbian president Gorby announced
                    that the firm would no longer discuss the strike with union representatives, federal conciliators,
                    or anyone else. He also announced that the plant was being "reorganized" and would resume
                    operations immediately; he promised that what he termed "former employees" would be given
                    preference in hiring as the company put together a new work force. Thanks to martial law the company
                    finally was able to reestablish an open shop.83 The union soon appealed its case
                    to the National Labor Relations Board.
            Feelings in the city continued to run high. Repeated minor disturbances occurred throughout August
                    and September, with frequent clashes between strikers and their replacements at the enameling plant.
                    Business leaders did little to help the situation by forming a "law and order committee"
                    and blaming the city's problems on "outlaws and radicals."84 There was strong support for the continuation of martial law as long as possible.85 The initial proclamation had brought McNutt a substantial amount of mail in
                    support of his decision; thereafter, any suspicion that martial law might be lifted brought a new
                    wave of letters urging that this action not be taken. In September, for instance, public protests
                    against martial law caused a number of residents to write to McNutt and ask, as one put it, for
                    continued protection from the "certain element, consisting of Reds, Agitators, Socialists,
                    etc. which has infested our fair city …,"86
            
            
               
                  83
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Tribune, July 25, 26, 27, 28, August 1,1935; 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Star, July 26,27,29,30,31, August 1,1935; "Labor
                        Department's Conciliation Service," 6.
               
                  84
                        
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Star, July 30, August 16, 1935; 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Tribune, July 29, August 15, 1935.
               
                  85 Bush, "
                            Terre Haute
                         General Strike," 35.
               
                  86 Quote from F. A. LaFollette to McNutt, September 14, 1935, Drawer 74
                        (1935), File "
                            Terre Haute
                         Strike (Letters Commending Action)," McNutt Collection; several other
                        letters use similar phrasing. See Drawer 74 (1935), Files "
                            Terre Haute
                         Strike (Letters Commending Action)" and "
                            Terre Haute
                         Strike (Letters Commending)," and Drawer 102 (1936), File "
                            Terre Haute
                         (Letters Commending)," ibid.
               
            
            
            The issue of martial law itself assumed growing importance as it became clear that military rule
                    would not be ended quickly. To labor, martial law was a strikebreaking tactic, and by mid-August
                    unionists and leftists throughout the area viewed its continuation as a grave threat. Thus far,
                    local Socialists had not played a major role in the events surrounding the general strike; the
                    Socialist organization in 
                        Terre Haute
                     seems to have been small and the Communist group still smaller at this time.87 Soon, however, Socialists began to see the continuation of martial law as a
                    potentially important civil liberty issue, and they staged demonstrations in defiance of military
                    regulations. These demonstrations in some cases led to the arrest of party members.88
            
            On August 28 Powers Hapgood, a labor organizer and Socialist party official from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , announced that an unauthorized protest meeting would be held in 
                        Terre Haute
                     with Socialist leader 
                        Norman
                     Thomas as the featured speaker.89 The meeting was held without
                    incident on August 29; before it began, military authorities announced that they would not
                    interfere. A crowd of two thousand gathered on the courthouse lawn to hear the labor and Socialist
                    speakers denounce martial law as an unwarranted interference with free speech. Thomas argued that
                    "the fact that martial law is being maintained without troops is an admission that martial
                    law is not needed here." The suspension of civil liberties was, he said, "the
                    manner in which fascism gradually gets under way, and it means the starting out of a lot of
                    ‘Hoosier Hitlers.’ "90 This meeting marked the
                    beginning of a temporary labor-Socialist alliance against military rule, an alliance which
                    subsequently was formalized with the organization of the Labor-Socialist Defense Committee.91
            
            During the following weeks the Defense Committee conducted a two-pronged campaign against martial
                    law. One tool was publicity: through articles and press releases the group presented the reasons it
                    opposed martial law and condemned Governor McNutt for allowing it to continue.92
                    At the same time the 
                  
                     87
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, August 9, 1935; Sebree interview, 67; Gebert, "General
                            Strike in 
                                Terre Haute
                            ," 809.
                  
                     88
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, August 25, 26, 27, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, August 26, 27, 1935.
                  
                     89
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, August 28, 29, 1935.
                  
                     90
                            Ibid., August 29, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, August 30, 1935; 
                                Norman
                             Thomas, "Hoosier Hitlerism," The Nation,
                            CXLI (September 18, 1935), 324–26, presents Thomas's view.
                  
                     91
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, August 31, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, August 30, 31, 1935.
                  
                     92 See Thomas, "Hoosier Hitlerism"; 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Labor Forum, September 13, 20, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, September 13, October 25, November 29, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, September 2, 7, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, September 30, 1935.
               
                     committee turned to the courts to try to get an end to military
                    rule. On September 3 lawyers filed a bill of complaint in the federal court at 
                        Indianapolis
                     against McNutt, officials of the Indiana National Guard, and the city officials of 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; they sought an injunction preventing execution of the July 22 martial law
                    proclamation. On October 7 three federal judges upheld the governor's right to declare
                    martial law and to continue it as he felt circumstances demanded, thus denying the group its
                    injunction. Martial law in 
                        Vigo County
                     was to continue until February 10, 1936.93
            
            The Columbian strikers had no better luck with their resort to legal channels. In October union
                    officials announced that they had been notified that their case would be heard as soon as a new
                    Regional Labor Board was created under the provisions of the Wagner Act. The union alleged that the
                    Columbian company's refusal to negotiate constituted an unfair labor practice as defined by
                    that act and that the company had in other ways interfered with the rights of employees. Hearings
                    began in December, and in February the Regional Labor Board upheld the union's contentions
                    and ordered the Columbian Enameling and Stamping Company to re-hire striking employees and bargain
                    with the union. The victory was, however, only temporary. A federal court subsequently ruled that
                    the union had violated the no-strike clause of its contract by calling a walkout in March, 1935;
                    that, in so striking, the union had ceased to be a legal bargaining agent; and that because the
                    union had lost its legal standing in March it could not be covered by the Wagner Act, which was
                    passed later. This decision was upheld on a technical point by the Supreme Court. Left without legal
                    status, the union had no channels of appeal left.94
            
            The wounds left by the general strike were slow to heal. Well into 1936 the Columbian strike
                    continued to be a source of friction between labor and management, and there were numerous minor
                    clashes involving nonunion workers, labor organizers, and communists.95 At the
                    same time there were growing indications that 
                  
                     93
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Tribune, September 3, 4, 1935, February 10, 1936; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, August 30, October 8, 1935, February 10, 1936; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, February 14, 1936.
                  
                     94
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, October 2, November 23, December 10, 11, 12, 1935; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, February 21, 1936; Bush, "
                                Terre Haute
                             General Strike," 43–48.
                  
                     95 See, for example, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, March 28, May 23, 1936; N. L. Crosby to McNutt, June 11, 1936, D. H.
                            Tumbleson to McNutt, June 15, 1936, Paul R. Burlew to McNutt, June 16, 1936, and Alvin
                            Powell to McNutt, June 24, 1936, all in Drawer 102 (1936), File "
                                Terre Haute
                             Labor Dispute," McNutt Collection.
               
                     both labor and management in 
                        Terre Haute
                     desired a rapprochement. In March, 1936, the recently elected and avowedly conservative
                    leaders of the Central Labor Union made clear their intention of fostering the "orderly
                    promotion of unionism" and strengthening CLU control of labor affairs in the city.96 Two months later the Advocate carried a Chamber of Commerce advertisement
                    urging cooperation between labor and management and the recognition by both sides that they must
                    change with the times. The Advocate responded with an editorial proclaiming that
                    the new attitude expressed in the Chamber's advertisement promised "a better
                    atmosphere in our community for the future." The editorial also suggested that 
                        Terre Haute
                     develop a conciliation plan similar to that which had been implemented in
                            
                  Toledo, Ohio
               .97 Something along these lines emerged two years
                    later when early in 1938 the Junior Chamber of Commerce brought together business leaders and labor
                    representatives in an organization known as the Greater 
                        Terre Haute
                     movement. This informal group, originally concerned only with the general goal of civic
                    improvement, eventually placed particular emphasis on improving local labor relations. No complex
                    mediation plan was involved; rather, members of the organization used their influences to encourage
                    and facilitate negotiation of labor disputes. The plan seems to have been effective: the city
                    enjoyed labor peace throughout the late 1930s and during the war years, a situation no doubt aided
                    by a small economic recovery in this period.98
            
            The 
                        Terre Haute
                     general strike grew out of a complex mix of local and national circumstances. The
                    longstanding enmity between labor and management, the experience of economic decline during the
                    1920s and the suspicions associated with it, the success of the local organizing drive of
                    1933–1935, the nullification of the NIRA at a crucial time, and the presence of an
                    employer able to resist the pressures for compromise all contributed to the 
                  
                     96
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, March 28, 1936.
                  
                     97
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Advocate, May 15, 1936. For discussions of 
                                Toledo
                            's Industrial Peace Board and the situation that led to its creation,
                            see Tom Clapp, "
                                Toledo
                             Industrial Peace Board, 1935–1943," Northwest
                                Ohio Quarterly, XL (Spring, 1968), 50–67; ibid.
                            (Summer, 1968), 97–110; ibid., XLI (Winter,
                            1968–1969), 25–41; ibid., (Spring, 1969),
                            70–86; ibid., XLII (Winter, 1970–1971),
                            19–28; 
                                Sidney
                             Fine, "The 
                                Toledo
                             Chevrolet Strike of 1935," Ohio Historical
                            Quarterly, LXVII (October, 1958), 326–56; and Bernstein, Turbulent Years, 218–29.
                  
                     98 "Oh, the Moonlight's Fair Tonight," passim, discusses the origins of this movement; see also Drummond,
                            "City of Non-Growth," 184–86; Douglas T. Sterling Co., Survey Analysis [of 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana] (
                                Stanford
                            , Conn., 1945), 1. The city's economic problems were not, however,
                            finished; the end of wartime production in local defense plants brought renewed
                            unemployment. See Drummond, "City of Non-Growth," 186–87;
                            Liebowitz, My Indiana, 32.
               
                     situation. Had any of these circumstances been different the
                    strike might never have occurred.
            If the causes of 
                        Terre Haute
                    's strike appear fairly clear, however, its effects remain obscure. Indeed, a
                    local mythology has grown up around the events of 1935. Most observers have concluded that the
                    strike had significant economic consequences or, as one writer put it, " a tremendous but
                    immeasurable negative effect."99 The strike still is sometimes cited by
                    Terre Hauteans as one of the reasons for the city's continuing economic problems,
                    presumably because it gave the city the reputation of being a "bad" labor town.100 All of this is, however, only speculation. The city's economic
                    problems began well before 1935 and were a cause, rather than a result, of the general strike. The
                    city's reputation as a labor stronghold also predated the strike. The labor holiday may
                    have hurt 
                        Terre Haute
                    's name among employers, as many have contended; but at the same time it was
                    followed by a period of labor peace, a concerted effort by labor and business to foster economic
                    growth, and a significant if limited economic recovery, all of which generated favorable
                        publicity.101 Any attempt to balance these consequences is necessarily
                    conjectural; it does seem, however, that there has been little substantiation of the view that the
                    general strike did serious, long-term economic damage to 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
            A final, ironic aspect of the local mythology surrounding the events of 1935 is the still-common
                    belief that the general strike was the product of "mob hysteria."102 In fact, the strike was a rational, albeit desperate, response to a seemingly
                    insoluble problem. 
                        Terre Haute
                    's unionists came to see the strike at Columbian Enameling and Stamping as a
                    crisis in local labor relations. Appealing to the federal government for what they believed were
                    their rights under the NIRA, they were stymied by the paralysis created by the Schechter decision.
                    Turning to the local level, they found their own city government allying itself with the forces they
                    believed were attempting to crush organized labor. Even influential fellow citizens were either
                    unwilling or unable to help break the deadlock in the Columbian dispute. With all of these avenues
                    closed, 
                        Terre Haute
                    's trade unionists fell back upon their last resource, their newfound
                    solidarity. In the end even this was not enough.
            
               
                  99 Bush, "
                            Terre Haute
                         General Strike," 49; see also Drummond, "City of
                        Non-Growth," 184; Hughes, "When 
                            Terre Haute
                         Stood Still," passim.
               
               
                  100 Hughes, "When 
                            Terre Haute
                         Stood Still," 6; Bush, "
                            Terre Haute
                         General Strike," 49.
               
                  101 "Oh, the Moonlight's Fair Tonight," passim;
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, February 2, 1947; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, February 25, 1947; Indiana Economic Council, Economic
                            Survey of the 
                                Terre Haute
                             Area, 28.
               
                  102 For a recent discussion of the strike reflecting this view, see
                        Hughes, "When 
                            Terre Haute
                         Stood Still."
            
         
         
         
            The White Plains, Indiana, Threshing Ring, 1920–1943
            James Sanford Rikoon∗
            
            Throughout Indiana and the Midwest documentation of the effect of agricultural mechanization on rural
                    history is crucial to an understanding of the evolution of rural areas from their pioneer,
                    tradition-oriented origins to the largely agribusiness, innovative present. One technological
                    advance that initiated processes of adaptation and response was the mechanical grain separator or
                    threshing machine. The "separator," as it is named in rural areas, is a machine
                    that automatically sorts harvested cereals into their three main components—grain seed,
                    chaff, and straw. Threshing machines were adopted throughout the Midwest in relatively large numbers
                    in the 1850s.1 With this device, powered at first by horses, then by steam
                    engines, and finally by gas engines around 1925 in most areas, grain fit for mill or market was
                    delivered out of the side of the machine while the chaff and straw exited from the rear.2 Separators enabled farmers to increase the amount of grain threshed during one
                    season with far less labor input per bushel.
            
               
                  ∗ James Sanford Rikoon is adjunct scholar, Missouri Cultural
                        Heritage Center, 400 Hitt Street, University of 
                     Missouri, Columbia, Missouri
                  , 65201. He requests that, for continuing
                        research purposes, anyone possessing records of established threshing rings or records of former
                        threshermen please contact him.
               
                  1 Until the mid-nineteenth century "threshing" commonly denoted
                        only the separation of the wheat heads from the straw whereas the cleaning of the chaff from the
                        kernal was called "separating." Early threshing machines, sometimes called
                        "groundhog" threshers because of their physical posture and noise, did not clean the
                        chaff. By the turn of the century machines completing both processes were referred to
                        synonymously as threshing machines or separators.
               
                  2 Good general discussions and photographs of the various
                        "powers" and separators used in grain harvesting can be found in Kirby Brumfield, The Wheat Album: A Picture and Story Scrapbook of Wheat Harvests in Years Gone
                        By (Seattle, 1974); Jack Norbeck, Encyclopedia of American Steam Traction
                            Engines (Sarasota, 1976); and Donald P. Greene, "
                            Prairie
                         Agricultural Technology" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana
                        University, 1957), 290–319.
            
            
            Unlike the wheat drill or other agricultural innovations of the mid-nineteenth century, threshing
                    machines were complex and expensive implements. Most farmers were unable to afford or care for the
                    device, and even those who could do so found it impractical to put out money for an outfit that
                    could thresh their crop in one or two days. One solution was the creation of cooperative threshing
                    rings. Best summarized as neighborhood cooperatives, these collectives allowed each farmer-member to
                    help other ring participants with their threshing and thus be entitled to receive his
                    neighbors' help when the separator and power arrived at his farm. In some cases the ring
                    purchased a threshing rig themselves with the cost split among members; more often an outside
                    thresherman who owned the necessary machinery was employed to work through the harvest.3
            
            The White Plains Threshing Ring of northern 
                        Franklin County
                    , Indiana, was one such local agricultural cooperative. The ring's
                    organizational minutes for 1920–1943, which are reproduced below, are a case study of
                    rural evolution during the years just before the combined harvester-thresher (combine) initiated a
                    more individualistic harvesting system. By providing information on the kinds of activities that
                    typified many midwestern threshing collectives,4 the White Plains records
                    provide insights into the ways in which one locale adapted traditional social and cultural patterns
                    to changing technology and regional and national trends.5
            
            The White Plains area in 
                        Franklin County
                     includes the southern portion of Blooming Grove Township along with the northern and
                    western border areas of, respectively, 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Fairfield
                     townships. The soil base is mainly clay with a slight 
                  
                     3 The best currently available discussions of Midwest threshing
                            patterns include Angie Kumlien Main, "Annals of a Wisconsin Thresherman,"
                                Wisconsin Magazine of History, XI (March, 1928), 301–308;
                            J. C. Rundles, "The Thrashing Ring in the Cornbelt," in 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Department of Agriculture Yearbook, 1918 (
                                Washington
                            , 1919), 247–68; and Emil Rauchenstein and C. A. Brown, Successful Threshing Ring Management (University of Illinois Agricultural Experiment
                                Station Bulletin No. 267;
                            
                                Urbana
                            , 1925).
                  
                     4 Not all post-1920 Indiana threshing rings were as formally organized
                            as the White Plains cooperative, though the Hoosier state seems to have had a proportionally
                            higher number of formal ring structures than any of its neighboring states. This situation
                            is due, in part, to an active promotional campaign by the Indiana
                                Farmer's Guide and other state agricultural publications, especially
                            between 1915 and 1925. The title of the Indiana Farmer's Guide
                            varies from Indiana Farmer and Farmer's Guide
                            to Indiana Farmer's Guide, depending on the year.
                  
                     5 Marybelle Burch, manuscript librarian, Indiana Division, Indiana
                            State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , first called the author's attention to the White Plains Threshing
                            Ring minutes. Later interviews, in 1981, with Basil Copes of 
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana, a former ring member, were helpful in providing more details about
                            ring activities.
               
                     loam mixture. The relatively level contour of the landscape
                    derives from the Plains' location on the southern border of the Illinois Glacier boundary
                    line. Settled first in the 1810s,6 the White Plains neighborhood quickly
                    developed into an active, diversified farming area. Until the post-World War II period the
                    overwhelming majority of family farms occupied 80 to 160 acres, enough land to meet the needs of the
                    resident family and to support the development of a small market interest. The mixed 
                        German
                     and Anglo-American population that dominated settlement during the mid-nineteenth
                    century could acquire cash by selling dairy products, livestock, or crop surpluses.7 Grains, especially wheat and oats, along with corn, were primary farm and market crops until
                    the 1940s. Of the cereals, wheat was generally the most profitable cash crop. It also provided the
                    family with an important foodstuff and was mixed into some livestock feeds. The straw provided a raw
                    material for bedding and winter shelters for the stock. Unspoiled straw mixed with chaff, bran, or
                    some other supplement could be used as a basic winter feed. Oats were similarly used as a nutritious
                    feed for the farm's horses, and oat straw, even more than wheat straw, was favored by stock
                    as winter food. The only other cereals grown in the area were buckwheat and rye; neither grain ever
                    gained any real popularity among area farmers.8
            
            Prior to 1920 there apparently was no formally organized White Plains Threshing Ring with elected
                    officers, by-laws, or secretary's minutes. For many years before this date, however,
                    neighbors did exchange labor during the threshing season. Like most threshing rings of the
                    nineteenth century, the White Plains organizational network was informal, and information was passed
                    solely by word-of-mouth from season to season. Three major reasons appear to have motivated area
                    farmers to become more organized. First, according to Basil Copes, a former ring member,
                    inequalities existed in the amounts of grain raised by members of the same ring. Those men with
                    smaller acreages found themselves 
                  
                     6 August J. Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana: Her People, Industries, and Institutions … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915), 51.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 139, 265–68; Agricultural Statistics and Reports, 1855,
                            1858, 1873, 1885 (
                                Franklin County
                             Courthouse, 
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana). According to an 1852 Indiana law county assessors compiled
                            agricultural information for farms in each township as part of their duties in assessment of
                            taxes, and, until approximately 1919, they filed these reports with the county auditor.
                            Included were statistics on total number of acres in each farm, quantities of farm products
                            harvested, and kinds and numbers of livestock found on each farm. Indiana, Special and Local Acts (1851–1852), 64. See also Samuel Shirk diary,
                            1852, photocopy (Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     8 Agricultural Statistics and Reports; interviews with Basil
                        Copes.
               
                     laboring much more at some of their neighbors' farms
                    than these same men were required to do at the smaller places. A major concern, then, was to
                    equalize this labor difference by providing the farmer who worked smaller acreages reimbursement for
                    his extra labor at the bigger farms. The solution was the "difference" system. Although the
                    exact workings of the White Plains ring's system are not known, the "difference"
                    formula was based on comparisons of each ring member's total yields. The secretary of the
                    ring kept a close account of these figures and taxed a "difference" to farmers with larger
                    yields on the basis of a fixed amount per 100 bushels. Thus, in a hypothetical situation, if the
                    rate was fifteen cents per 100 bushels and Farmer A's crop yielded 341 bushels and Farmer B
                    harvested 544 bushels, then B would owe A a total of thirty cents if both men donated the same level
                    of labor. Labor rates for the annual run for both ring members and hired men were based on bushels
                    threshed and not on hours worked. By paying this way each farmer could quickly estimate how much he
                    owed by dividing his yield by the rate of "difference" and multiplying this figure by the
                    total number of hands. At the end of the threshing season, however, not all ring members exchanged
                    debts. The secretary, whose computations were rarely challenged, attempted to cancel balancing debts
                    wherever possible. After 1931 the cost of meals eaten by ring members was added to the labor and
                    yield aspects of this system. Farmers were charged by the "plate," and these debts
                    were also taken into account at the end of the season. According to Copes, those farmers who raised
                    around twenty acres of grain would generally neither pay out nor receive any
                        "difference."9
            
            The White Plains "difference" system was outlined in the ring's by-laws, a short
                    document (apparently no longer existing) that contained rules for the ring's yearly and
                    daily activities.10 It is likely that the by-laws solved a second major concern
                    of area farmers—the need to provide greater consistency in member's activities
                    from year to year and to provide a continuous structure outlining procedures and responsibilities.
                    As the minutes indicate, 
                  
                     9 Interview with Basil Copes, 
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana, February 6, 1981. The process of figuring "difference" in
                            the White Plains ring was apparently a well-kept secret, known only to the three ring
                            secretaries—Frank Moore, Harry Green, and William Suhre. No former ring members
                            alive today remember ever learning it. Rundles discusses a few ways of figuring
                            "differences" in "The Thrashing Ring in the Cornbelt,"
                            247–68.
                  
                     10 Generic by-laws, suitable for adaptation to particular ring
                            requirements, were periodically published in farm magazines and journals. For examples, see
                                Indiana Farmer's Guide, XXXI (March 8, 1919), 3, 42; ibid. (October 25, 1919), 34–35; ibid.,
                            XXXIII (July 9, 1921), 8; or Wallace's Farmer, XLIII (September
                            13, 1918), 1309; ibid., XLIV (June 20, 1919), 1275.
               
                     the by-laws included regulations on the selection process for
                    labor tasks, the times for beginning and ending the work day, the instructions concerning the
                    expenditure of funds, and the selection process and responsibilities of ring officers, committees,
                    and thresherman. With these by-laws, and the simple parliamentary procedure used during business
                    portions of the organization and settlement meetings, ring members forged a more highly structured
                    and formal work exchange than had existed previously. In contrast to the loose networks underlying
                    the older cooperative patterns, the newer system parallels the increasing complexity of agricultural
                    technology and tasks.
            The increasing mobility of rural families and the growing number of farm renters in the White Plains
                    neighborhood provided a third reason for the change to a more structured relationship for the
                    threshing ring in the 1920s. By this decade between 20 and 25 percent of each year's
                    membership were renters, a figure perhaps two or three times higher than a generation before. The
                    by-laws provided a clearly understood threshing system that could be changed only by a majority
                        vote.11 The ring's core membership thereby assured themselves of a
                    continuous system unalterable by any new minority. In 1920 the White Plains ring included nine
                    families—Copes, Nierstheimer, Roberts, Green, McWhorter, Swift, Moore, Younts, and
                    Klipple—that had been residing in the area prior to 1873.12
                    Established farmers, who owned their own farms, retained tight control of the ring throughout its
                    twenty-four-year history. This core consisted of the Copes, Green, Nierstheimer, Gesell, Fritz,
                    Hoffman, Suhre, Roemer, and Pfaff families.13 Although more than fifty family
                    names appear in the ring minutes, the officers were, with only two exceptions, filled from this
                    group. This continuity resulted in strong control over the difference system, the treasury, and the
                    progression of meetings and procedures that characterized the threshing season.
            In addition to the by-laws and formalized structure of the White Plains ring as organized in 1920,
                    there existed a perhaps larger, albeit unofficial, set of ring rules based on the area's
                    traditions, values, and attitudes in regard to work exchanges and social relations. The strength of
                    these "rules" cannot be overestimated. Because new ring members often were not aware of
                    these 
                  
                     11 Interview with Basil Copes, February 13, 1981.
                  
                     12 This information is based on farm family names listed in
                            Agricultural Statistics and Reports, 1873.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Franklin County
                             Plat Book, 1925 (
                                Brookville
                             Public Library). Using the plat book as a source, Copes identified the core
                            families which composed the White Plains Threshing Ring and pinpointed the location of their
                            farms.
               
                     folkways, they frequently found the unwritten codes more
                    difficult to follow than the by-laws. One new White Plains member, for example, violated the
                    tradition that bundle wagon drivers always unload their bundles at the same side of the separator:
                        
                        We had one old fellow here in the neighborhood, well he moved in here that one year. The
                            first year he was my partner [with the bundle wagons]. When you started in as pairs, the
                            same ones stayed all through the ring. You got a fellow that stayed on the opposite side of
                            you at the machine and you stayed on your side. You was supposed to go that way all through
                            the wheat. If you got the dust in over at a threshing, why the wind would change at the
                            various places. And we started in and he didn't have as large a load of bundles as
                            I did and he wasn't no fool either I found out afterwards. He got on the clean side
                            which you had that privilege on the first time. But the second time we came in he came in on
                            my side and I thought, "Well he's just new to the ring and he
                            isn't thinking too well. Now I'll wait till tomorrow." And the
                            next day, the same thing. So I told him. I said, "We've got a little rule
                            here that whichever side of the separator you start out on, you go through on that till the
                            end of the ring." "Well," he said, "that dust hurts my
                            eyes." "Well, it don't do mine any good either," I told
                                him.14
                  
                    
            
            Organization and settlement meetings marked the opening and closing of the White Plains threshing
                    season. Both events took place at the Ebenezer Methodist Episcopal Church in Blooming Grove
                    Township. Approximately ten days before the threshing rig was due to arrive in the area, the
                    president called the organization meeting. As the minutes indicate, the primary purposes of this
                    gathering were to elect ring officers for the coming year, apportion labor tasks to ring members,
                    hire extra laborers if needed, and admit new members into the ring. The Machine Committee reported
                    on the thresherman whom they had hired and the prices agreed upon for the season's run.
                    This meeting generally took place in the evening and rarely lasted longer than two hours.15
            
            The key element of the organization meeting was the selection of the labor positions that each man
                    kept throughout that season. Before 1922 the captain of the ring placed the men. In that year
                    members voted to choose their positions by lot. After the positions were randomly selected, ring
                    members could trade their selections if two men agreed to an exchange.16 This
                    flexibility explains what seem in the minutes to be uncanny streaks of continuous job selections.
                    Howard Roemer, for example, a heavyset man who preferred to work with the bundle wagons, managed
                    either to draw that job or to trade for it for sixteen of his seventeen years in the ring.
            
               
                  14 Interview with Basil Copes, February 13, 1981.
               
                  15
                  Ibid., February 6, 1981; Reifel, History
                            of 
                                Franklin County
                            , 428–29.
               
                  16 Interview with Basil Copes, February 6, 1981.
            
            
            The major threshing tasks divided among ring members were bundle wagon or sheaf wheat team drivers,
                    pitchers, grain handlers, and grain wagon drivers. The bundle wagoners worked in teams. Their job
                    was to drive their wagons into the fields where the pitchers' main task was to pitch the
                    bundles onto the wagons. The driver arranged the sheaves on the wagon bed, taking care to build an
                    even load that would not tip over when the wagon was driven from the field to the separator,
                    normally positioned near the barn. The threshing machine feeding carrier extended from the front,
                    and bundles could be pitched by the drivers from either side. Working as a team, the feeders
                    alternated pitching their sheaves, always heads first, into the cutting teeth of the separator.17 After the grain worked its way through the machine, the grain seeds were
                    carried by internal elevators to a grain weigher at the side. As the automatic weighers ticked off
                    the kernels, half-bushel by half-bushel, the wheat handlers sacked the grain in two-bushel bags.18 These sacks were then placed in grain wagons, driven to the farmer's
                    granary, and unloaded. Occasionally the grain was not sacked but exited down a spout from the
                    machine directly into the wagon box.
            The minimum number of workers needed for the White Plains ring was seventeen. There were always eight
                    bundle wagons and two grain wagons. The remaining men were assigned to pitching bundles or to
                    handling the threshed grain, with the majority working as field pitchers. The bundle wagon tasks
                    required the most skill and expertise, primarily in loading the wagons and pitching the sheaves into
                    the separator. Hired labor, usually high school students or beginning farmers, generally worked as
                    pitchers or grain wagon drivers.
            Within the threshing ring hierarchy the captain held a unique position. He acted as a foreman over
                    the ring members and harvest activities, though he was always careful to respect the rights of the
                    thresherman who bossed the rig crew. The captain worked around the separator, feeding bundles of
                    grain that either fell from the bundle wagons or missed the feeding carrier when pitched from the
                    wagons. Perhaps most importantly, the captain was responsible for directing the season's
                    threshing route. The ring's 
                  
                     17 Self-feeding carriers were available on most separators by the turn
                            of the century. Before that time the sheaves' binds had to be cut by hand and the
                            grain fed manually. This process required three extra workers—two men, one on
                            each side of the machine, to cut the bundle ties and one man to feed the open bundles into
                            the separator.
                  
                     18 Each ring member contributed a set amount of grain sacks to the
                            ring for the season's run. Interview with Basil Copes, February 6, 1981.
               
                     threshing order normally alternated every year, beginning at
                    either the northern or southern edge of the area. This pattern prevented any one member from
                    suffering annual anxiety because he was at the end of the run and thus was more likely to suffer
                    grain losses because of summer storms or hail. The captain also selected when and where ring meals
                    would be eaten and decided the starting and ending time for each day's activities.19
            
            The owner of the threshing rig was the ideal role model for many boys throughout the rural Midwest
                    during this period. Interestingly, the thresherman did not operate the threshing machine itself;
                    rather, he controlled the powerful steam or gasoline engine that powered the separator. William
                    Scherer, the thresherman for the White Plains ring for over twenty-five years, lived only two miles
                    east of the neighborhood. Scherer threshed for two rings in the area, each year alternating the ring
                    he threshed first. His long involvement with the White Plains farmers reflects the tendency of
                    threshing rings to establish long-term relationships with the thresherman who best suited their
                        requirements.20
            
            Scherer's rig crew consisted of himself, as engineer, a separator tender,21 and a blowerman. The engineer, when working with steam engines, was assisted by a wagonman
                    whose major task involved driving the water tank between the engine and the nearest water source to
                    replenish the boilers of the thirsty steamer. The separator tender kept the threshing machine
                    running smoothly. He could generally be found either standing on top of the separator, where he
                    listened for any abnormal sounds and felt the bundles moving through the machine, or working around
                    the machine with oilcan, grease gun, or adjusting tools. The blowerman labored at the rear of the
                    machine from which a metal stack directed the air-driven expulsion of straw and chaff. By
                    manipulating cranks that directed the angle, direction, and height of the blowing waste, he
                    attempted to build an even and solid straw pile.22 Before the threshing rig
                    arrived at their farms, farmers 
                  
                            19
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     20 William Scherer was also employed by some ring members to hull
                            clover seed and shred corn for ensilage. Both of these tasks required reciprocal labor
                            donations among farmers although the number of workers needed was less than that required
                            for threshing. Small informal rings were developed, but only a minority of the White Plains
                            Threshing Ring members participated as all did not raise hay or have silos on their farms.
                                Ibid., February 13, 1981.
                  
                     21 For many years Scherer's separator man was Ralph Kline. It
                            was normal for Kline to spend the evening sleeping outdoors near the threshing rig while the
                            rest of the machine crew went home. Ibid., February 6, 1981.
                  
                     22 The host farmer was often allowed to abandon his regularly assigned
                            task in the threshing ring if he desired to work on his own strawstack formation. This
                            folkway demonstrates the significance of the strawstack.
               
                     often built temporary pole shelters or sheds in their
                    barnyards. By building the straw pile around and on top of the structures, the blowerman could
                    create a cozy wintering place for the stock. The farm's straw pile, incidentally, also
                    supplied other neighborhood visitors with a measure of a farmer's grain crop and, by
                    extension, his prosperity.
            A summary of the number of bushels of grain threshed per year and the average number of bushels
                    threshed per farm is given in Table 1. Because of the methods necessarily employed in their
                    reckoning, these statistics are only approximations. "Numbers of Farms" for each season was
                    determined from the number of men given positions, including captain, as members of the ring.
                    "Number of Bushels Threshed" is more problematic. Only for the years 1928 and 1929 did the
                    secretary include these figures in the actual minutes of the settlement meetings. In 1931 a figure
                    assumed to be the number of bushels threshed was added as an "extra" at the bottom of the
                    minutes page; the 1940 total was listed on a miscellaneous settlement page in the back of the
                    minutes volume. For the other years the number of bushels threshed was figured on the basis of wage
                    rate for hired hands. For example, in 1938 the hired laborers were paid thirty cents for every 100
                    bushels threshed. The secretary reports that each man was paid $12.90, a figure that
                    suggests 4,300 bushels threshed that season. Use of this system assumes, of course, that the hired
                    men did not miss any of the threshing and that monies paid were for threshing only. Although Basil
                    Copes reports that these men rarely missed any work,23 the equation likely
                    contains a small percentage of error. It is possible to check the use of the labor rate system just
                    described with figures given by the secretary for 1928, 1929, 1931, and 1940. These computations are
                    found in Table 2 and show, at least for these years, that the level of error is extremely slight.
            Within a week after threshing the last bundle of grain, the settlement meeting occurred. Until 1931,
                    when members voted to end the social time, this event combined both business and social functions.
                    Whole families were involved. The meeting began with the men gathered outside the church to
                    "settle-up" their differences. Hired hands received their wages, and ring members voted on
                    the thresherman that they wanted to work the ring the following year. The Machine Committee,
                    appointed by the president at this time, was entrusted with the task of contacting the selected
                    thresherman and fixing the cost of the next year's run. 
                  
                     23 Interview with Basil Copes, February 6, 1981.
               
                     While the men talked, the women remained inside the church to
                    set tables in preparation for the social time, generally consisting of an ice cream and cake
                    "social," with the cakes and drinks brought by the ring families and the ice cream
                    purchased with funds from the ring's treasury.24 When the men finished
                    their business, they moved inside to join their families, a symbolic gesture to signal the end of
                    the grain harvest season. The settlement meeting then concluded with time for visiting and the
                    renewal of friendships and neighborhood bonds.
            
               TABLE 1 Output of the White Plains Threshing Ring, 1928–1940
               
                  Year
                  Number of Farms
                  Estimate of Total Bushels Threshed
                  Average Bushels Per Farm
               
               
                  1928
                  16
                  5,015
                  313.4
               
               
                  1929
                  16
                  5,247
                  327.9
               
               
                  1930
                  16
                  4,754
                  316.9
               
               
                  1931
                  15
                  12,600
                  840.0
               
               
                  1932
                  15
                  5,400
                  360.0
               
               
                  1933
                  14
                  4,600
                  328.6
               
               
                  1934
                  14
                  6,133
                  438.1
               
               
                  1935
                  14
                  8,200
                  630.8
               
               
                  1936
                  14
                  5,200
                  371.4
               
               
                  1937
                  14
                  5,000
                  357.1
               
               
                  1938
                  13
                  4,300
                  330.8
               
               
                  1939
                  13
                  4,000
                  307.7
               
               
                  1940
                  12
                  4,419
                  368.3
               
            
            
               Source: Minutes of the White Plains Threshing Ring.
            
            
               
                  24 In other midwestern rings it was common for the thresherman to bring
                        the ice cream as a gesture of goodwill and, perhaps, as a minor form of American Midwest
                        potlatch. Michael Jay Pyle, "Threshing: A Process and an Experience," 9;
                        (unpublished manuscript, Indiana University Folklore Archives, 
                            Bloomington
                        ). interview with Luther Breimeyer, 
                     Greenville, Ohio
                  , December
                        3, 1980.
            
            
            
               TABLE 2 Comparison of Estimated and Reported Output
               
                  Year
                  Wage Rate (per 100 bu.)
                  Wages Paid (per man)
                  Bushels Threshed Based on Labor Rate
                  Report of Bushels Threshed
                  Percent of Error in Labor Rate
               
               
                  1928
                  25 cents
                  $12.69
                  5,076
                  5,015
                  .012
               
               
                  1929
                  35 cents
                  18.36
                  5,245
                  5,247
                  .000
               
               
                  1931
                  20 cents
                  25.25
                  12,600
                  12,612
                  .001
               
               
                  1940
                  25 cents
                  10.75
                  4,300
                  4,419
                  .027
               
            
            
               Source: Minutes of the White Plains Threshing Ring.
            
            Between 1921 and 1944 certain trends in ring activities reflect other economic and social changes
                    both in agriculture and general rural social patterns. The peak of prosperity and normalcy in ring
                    activities occurred between the ring's formal organization and the Depression period.
                    Membership during this time averaged eighteen families, and the members never had to hire more than
                    one extra worker. Membership, however, did decline from a peak of twenty-one in 1921 to sixteen in
                    1930. The decrease resulted mainly from the loss of farms located on the ring's northwest
                    and western borders [see Figure 1]. When these farms changed hands, their new owners or renters, if
                    they continued to need a thresherman, joined other nearby rings.25 After the
                    increase in wheat prices brought about by World War I, the market stabilized in the 1920s. Although
                    the center of grain production had reached the north central states by this time,26 Indiana farmers who took advantage of labor-saving machinery and cooperative help could
                    still make good profits from their grain crops. Rates of "difference" paid, the most
                    accurate reflector of profit margins and labor costs in relation to profit, paralleled these
                    changes. "Difference" paid 
                  
                     25 Interview with Basil Copes, February 13, 1981.
                  
                     26 Louis B. Schmidt, "The Westward Movement of the Wheat
                            Growing Industry in the 
                                United States
                            ," Iowa Journal of History and Politics, XVIII (July,
                            1920), 409–12.
               
                     out in 1920 was thirty-five cents per 100 bushels, reflecting
                    the high market prices. After dropping to twenty-five cents in 1921 as market prices went down, the
                    rate of "difference" remained constant through 1930.27
            
            Beginning in 1931 and continuing through 1937 the minutes reflect the impact of the Depression. In
                    1931 the "difference" rate dropped to twenty cents per 100 bushels, and the next year the
                    level fell another five cents. From 1932 until 1937, when wheat prices began to rise again, the
                    "difference" rate remained at fifteen cents per 100 bushels, the lowest level in ring
                    history. Wages paid to hired labor also parallel the tightening of the money supply during this
                    period. From a high of thirty-five cents per 100 bushels threshed in 1929 and 1930, labor rates
                    declined to twenty-five cents in 1931 and fifteen cents in 1932. This low level continued until 1937
                    when the rate doubled, thereby jumping back close to the pre-Depression scale.
            The decline in ring membership that began in the late 1920s continued through the next decade. In the
                    early 1930s some farmers stopped raising cereal crops; in addition, a new generation of farmers who
                    depended on tractors for their farm power and corn for their cash crop purchased or rented the farms
                    of former ring members. The introduction of soybeans into the area in the mid-1930s also resulted in
                    a decrease of acreage devoted to grains. By the late 1930s threshing rings throughout the Midwest
                    were becoming dysfunctional as pull-type combines were successfully adapted for use on small farms
                    where the Ford and John Deere tractors increasingly provided the power source. Relatively
                    inexpensive and highly efficient, the pull-type combine cut and threshed grains in a single sweep of
                    the field, thus freeing individual farmers from the necessity of engaging in cooperative labor to
                    complete the grain harvest.
            Entering the 1940s, the White Plains ring membership was down to almost half its 1921 number. The
                    remaining members were mainly those core farmers who had dominated the ring from its inception.
                    Instead of finding themselves without reason to continue the ring process at this
                    time—when during many years there were almost as many hired hands as
                    members—the ring farmers were again motivated to continue grain production by the
                    shortages created by a major world war. The organization and settlement 
                  
                     27 An exception occurs in 1929 when a one-year experiment allowed
                            members who used teams in their labor to receive a higher rate of difference. The change was
                            voted down the following year because members felt that everyone had an equal chance to draw
                            any job and, further, that the tasks evened out over the years. Interview with Basil Copes,
                            February 13, 1981.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 1. Farms Included in White Plains Threshing Ring During 1921, 1925, 1932 and 1940
                            Activities
                  
                     ∗This list includes farm owners listed in 1925 plat book. The
                            boundary differences for 1921, 1932, and 1940 are not significant.
               
                     meetings continued through 1943. Ring members still ate their
                    dinners together, although for the final two years this meal was not prepared by the host farm but
                    was delivered at noontime by wives and children.28 In 1941 "due to the
                    lack of members the position of Capt. was discontinued." In 1944 some long-time members
                    such as Basil Copes, Andrew Knecht, and Will Suhre invested in a small separator and gasoline
                    tractor that could be operated by three or four men. Other ring members purchased combines to
                    harvest their share of the wartime crops. The minutes of the White Plains Threshing Ring were put
                    away by the last secretary, Suhre. In the late 1960s, when an individual farmer could harvest his
                    entire acreage from the dust-free, sound-proofed cab of a self-propelled combine, the Suhre family
                    passed the minutes to Copes, the last ring treasurer. It was perhaps as much the conservative
                    natures of the White Plains farmers as their concern for history that led them to preserve the
                    record of their threshing ring. Whatever the reason, however, the minutes provide an insight into
                    that transitional period in Indiana's rural history when agricultural innovations and
                    traditional patterns coexisted most harmoniously.
            
               
                  28 As noted earlier, the ring voted in 1929 to charge each man for his
                        dinner. This rather uncommon move created a break with a long rural tradition of providing food
                        to neighbors lending aid during the harvest. A motion in 1931 to return to the older pattern was
                        defeated.
            
            
            
                    Minutes of White Plains Threshing Ring1
               
                
            Aug—13—1920
            At call of President J.V. Younts the White Plains Threshing Ring met for the purpose of settling the
                    business of the past season. Minutes of last meeting read and approved. The Ring voted to hire Wm
                    Scherer for the next season. Wm Suhre, Adam Pfaff and Henry Nierstheimer were appointed as a Machine
                    Committee. The meeting then adjourned for a social time with Cake and Ice cream as refreshments.
            F.H. Moore, Sec't.
            June 24—1921
            At call of President J.V. Younts the White Plains Threshing Ring met to make arrangements for the
                    year. On Motion Mr. Schuler, Carl Precht, Howard Roemer and Peter Fritz were admitted to the
                    threshing ring. The election of Officers resulted in the following President J.V. Younts, Sect. F.H.
                    Moore, Treas. Edw. Copes. Jesse Swift was elected as Captain. Minutes of last meeting read and
                    approved The Com. to hire machine for the present year made their report and the ring accepted the
                    price for threshing as agreed by the Thresherman's Association,2 the
                    Com. was then discharged
            Moved and Seconded that Sect No 5 be ammended to read 20 cts per 100 bu. instead of 35 cts per 100
                    Motion Ammended to read 25 cts per 100. bu. Ammendant carried also motion carried as ammended.
            The Captain placed the men as follows.
            
               
                  1 The original minutes of the White Plains Threshing Ring were kept in a
                        paperbound notebook measuring five by eight inches with the majority of entries in pencil. The
                        notebook is currently in the possession of Basil Copes, 
                            Brookville
                        , Indiana. The following transcription was made from a microfilm copy of the minutes
                        located in the Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . The ring secretaries' original spelling, punctuation, and grammar have
                        been followed as closely as possible. The faded nature of the original and the quality of the
                        microfilm, as well as often illegible handwriting, have made some decisions necessarily
                        arbitrary. Variant spellings of both first and last names of ring members and workers are found
                        throughout the diary. These spellings have been retained without correction. Spacing has been
                        standardized and raised letters brought down to the line.
               
                  2 This reference connotes that Scherer belonged to an organized group of
                        thresherman that attempted to set consistent prices for their services. While such
                        organizations, or "brotherhoods" as they were often called, were found throughout the
                        Midwest, only a minority of threshermen joined their ranks.
            
            
            
               
                  Sheaf wheat teams
               
               
                  Adam Pfaff
                  M. Phelan
               
               
                  John Hoffman
                  H. Nierstheimer
               
               
                  Peter Fritz
                  H. Roemer
               
               
                  Harry Green
                  F. Moore
               
               
                  Pitchers
               
               
                  John Roemer
                  Carl Precht
               
               
                  Kimball, F.
                   
               
               
                  D. Greenley
                  J.V. Younts
               
               
                  Grain Wagons
               
               
                  S.D. Roberts
                  Edw. Copes.
               
               
                  Grain Handlers
               
               
                  C. Seibert
                  W. McWhorter
               
               
                  Wm Suhre
                  G. Klipple
               
               
                  Extra Man3 Schuler
               
            
            The ring voted to have a social ti[me] at the settlement meeting. [Graden?] Klipple, S.D. Roberts and
                    M. Phelan were appointed as a com. to make arrangements for the meeting. Motion to adjourn carried
            F.H. Moore
            July 27th 1921
            At call of Pres. J.V. Younts the White Plains Threshing Ring met for the purpose of settling up the
                    business of the threshing season just closed. Minutes of last meeting read and approved. The ring
                    voted to hire Wm Scherer to thresh for the ring next year. The ring then proceeded to make the
                    settlements for the past season. The meeting then adjourned for a social time. Ice cream and cake
                    were the refreshments.
            F.H. Moore Sect.
            June 9th 1922
            At call of Pres. J.V. Younts the White Plains Threshing Ring met for the purpose of making
                    arrangements for the season of 1922. Receips rec'd. from 
                        Franklin
                     Furniture Co for flowers furnished 
                  
                     3 The "extra man" took the position of other workers on a
                            rotating basis or whenever a member was excused, for whatever reason, from his normal task.
                            Interview with Basil Copes, 
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana, February 6, 1981.
               
                     for the funeral of Henry Heeb. The bill of Frank Moster for
                        4.00/100 for flowers furnished for the funeral of John
                        Roemer.4 On motion the bill was allowed and assisstant made. Mr. S.A.
                    Wilson, Joe Gingling, Henry Gesell and Albert Koeppel were admitted as members of the ring. The
                    meeting was then declared open for the Nomination of Officers. S.A. Wilson was elected as President.
                    F.H. Moore was elected as Sec't. M. Phelan was elected as Treasurer Jesse Swift was elected
                    as Captain. Moved and Seconded that the ring draw for their places. Motion carried The tickets were
                    prepared and resulted in the following
            
               
                  Bundle teams
               
               
                  F.H. Moore
                   
                  M. Phelan
               
               
                  W. Suhre
                   
                  P. Fritz
               
               
                  H. Roemer
                   
                  J Gingling
               
               
                  D. Greenley
                   
                  H. McWhorter
               
               
                  Grain teams
               
               
                  H. Nierstheimer
                   
                  H. Green
               
               
                  Pitchers
               
               
                  H. Gesell
                  A. Koeppel
                  C. Seibert
               
               
                  S. Wilson
                   
                  F. Kimball
               
               
                  Grain wrestler5
                  
               
               
                  E. Copes
                  J. Hoffman
                   
               
               
                  J. Schuler
                  S.D. Roberts
                   
               
               
                  C. Precht
                   
                   
               
            
            S.D. Roberts, Chris Seibert and Henry Nierstheimer were appointed as a machine Committe.
            F.H. Moore, Jesse Swift and Edw. Copes were appointed as a Com. to make arrangements for the
                    settlement meeting The meeting then adjourned
            F.H. Moore Sect.
            
               
                  4 This practice supports the concept of the threshing ring as more than a
                        purely contractual relationship. The purchase of flowers for deceased neighborhood residents was
                        practiced in the area before ring formalization and continues today.
               
                  5 "Grain wrestler" is another term for grain handler and is,
                        perhaps, a more descriptive term for the tasks involved.
            
            
            July 24—1922
            The White Plains Threshing Ring met for the purpose of settling up the business for the year past.
                    Meeting called to order by Pres. S.A. Wilson Minutes of last meeting read and approved. The business
                    of settling was then taken up. The Ring voted to hire Wm Scherer for next season. The Machine Com.
                    appointed at the previous meeting are retained for the next season The meeting then adjourned for a
                    social time.
            F.H. Moore Sect
            July 9th 1923
            The White Plains Threshing Ring was called by President S.A. Wilson to make arrangements for the
                    Threshing Season of 1923. Howard Snyder and Chas. Doner were admitted into the Ring The minutes of
                    last meeting were read and approved. The election of Officers was then taken up. For Pres. S.A.
                    Wilson, V.P. M. Phelan, For Sec't F.H. Moore Treas. Edw. Copes For Cap't Jesse
                    Swift The ring drew for places which resulted as follows
            
               
                  Bundle Team
               
               
                  Howard Romer
                   
                  M. Phelan
               
               
                  Wm Suhre
                   
                  Chris Siebert
               
               
                  H. Nierstheimer
                   
                  Harry Green
               
               
                  S.A. Wilson
                   
                  John Hoffman
               
               
                  Grain Team
               
               
                  Henry G. Gesell
                   
                  Joe Gingling
               
               
                  Grain Men
               
               
                  F.H. Moore
                   
                  A. Koeppel
               
               
                  D. Greenley
                   
                  Chas. Doner
               
               
                  Pitchers
               
               
                  Edw. Copes
                  Howard Snider
                  Carl Precht
               
               
                  Jacob Schuler
                  P. Fritz
                   
               
            
            The Pres appointed the following as a com[.] for the social meeting. F.H. Moore, Jesse Swift and Edw.
                    Copes Moved and seconded that the Ring buy 2 Grain Forks to stay with the machine Motion carried No
                    business appearing the meeting then adjourned
            F.H. Moore Sect
            
            
               IN THIS EARLY TWENTIETH CENTURY INDIANA THRESHING SCENE THE LUGS HAVE BEEN REMOVED FROM THE BACK WHEELS OF THE RUMELY TRACTOR (MANUFACTURED IN LA PORTE, INDIANA) POWERING THE SEPARATOR, PROBABLY BECAUSE OF LOCAL ROAD
                            LAWS. AS WITH THE WHITE PLAINS RING, THE BUNDLE WAGONS ARE
                        UNLOADING IN PAIRS AND THE SEPARATOR
                            TENDER IS IN HIS NORMAL POSITION ATOP THE SEPARATOR.
               ∗Courtesy J. C. Allen & Son, Inc., West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana.
            
            Aug 1st 1923
            At Call of Pres. S.A. Wilson the White Plains Threshing Ring met for the purpose of settling the
                    business for the past season Minutes of last meeting read and approved. The settlement between the
                    Members was then taken up. The Pres. appointed F.H. Moore, Henry Nierstheimer and Edw. Copes as a
                    Machine Committee for the year 1924. All other business being transacted the meeting adjourned.
            F.H. Moore Sect
            July 7th 1924
            At call of Pres. S.A. Wilson the White Plains Threshing Ring met for the Purpose of making
                    arrangements for the season of 1924. Minutes of last meeting read and approved Six men applied for
                    membership in the Ring and were accepted. Jesse Swift was elected as Pres. for the next year. F.H.
                    Moore was elected for Sec't for  the next year. Edw.
                    Copes was elected Tresurer for the next year. Adam Pfaff was elected as Captain. The ring drew for
                    places as follows
            
               
                  Bundle Teams
               
               
                  S.A Wilson
                   
                  Howard Roemer
               
               
                  F.H. Moore
                   
                  Henry Gesell
               
               
                  P. Fritz
                   
                  M. Phelan
               
               
                  H. Gesell
                   
                  F. Kimball
               
               
                  Pitchers
               
               
                  Fred Hoffman
                  H. Green
                  J. Koeppel
               
               
                  W. Phenis
                  H. Nierstheimer
                   
               
               
                  Grain Team
               
               
                  Edw. Copes
                   
                  D. Greenley
               
               
                  Grain Men
               
               
                  Jesse Swift
                   
                  Chris Siebert
               
               
                  Ray Jones
                   
                   
               
            
            The Ring voted to continue buying flowers for a Member of the Ring in case of his Death.
            The Com. on Machine report that they have hired Wm Scherer to thresh the grain for the season of
                    1924. S.A. Wilson, Adam Pfaff and H.C. Nierstheimer were appointed as a Com. for the settlement
                    meeting.
            No further business appearing the meeting adjourned
            F.H. Moore Sec't.
            Aug 4th 1924
            At call of Pres. Jesse Swift the White Plains Threshing Ring met for the purpose of settling up the
                    business of the season just passed Minutes of last meeting read and approved The settlement of
                    accounts was next in order. The ring voted on the machine for the next season which resulted in Wm
                    Sherer receiving the vote. Peter Fritz, Ray Jones and Harry Green were appointed as a Machine Com.
                    The Meeting adjourned for a social time.
            F.H. Moore Sec't.
            July 1st 1925
            At call of Pres. Jesse Swift the White Plains Threshing Ring met for the purpose of making
                    arrangements for the Threshing season of 1925. Roll of members called and Minutes of last meeting
                    Read and approved. Harry Pfaff, Geo Hoffman, Wm Suhre and Albert  Moster applied for membership in the ring. They were admitted. The ring elected Officers as
                    follows.
            
               
                  Pres. Jesse Swift
                  Capt. Adam Pfaff.
               
               
                  Sec't F.H. Moore
               
               
                  Treas Edw Copes.
               
            
            The machine Committee made their report The ring voted to not hire a water boy.6
                    The ring drew for their places which resulted as follows
            
               
                  Bundle Teams
               
               
                  Jesse Swift
                  Howard Romer
               
               
                  F.H Moore
                  Ray Jones
               
               
                  Harry Pfaff
                  Edw. Copes.
               
               
                  P. Fritz
                  D. Greenley
               
               
                  Pitchers.
               
               
                  John Koeppel
                  H. Nierstheimer
               
               
                  Harry Green
                  H. Gesell.
               
               
                  Chris Siebert
               
               
                  Grain Teams.
               
               
                  Wm. Suhre.
                  Albert Moster
               
               
                  Grain Men
               
               
                  Geo. Hoffman.
                  H.C. Gesell.
               
            
            The ring voted to hire a man to go thru the threshing at 30 cts per hundred.
            Kenneth Copes was hired.
            A Committee was appointed as a machine Com. as follows. F.H. Moore Howard Romer and H.C.
                    Nierstheimer. A Com. on banquet for the settlement meeting was appointed as follows. Wm Suhre, Peter
                    Fritz and Ray Jones. Moved and Seconded that the ring quit threshing at 6:30 O'clock and go
                    home for supper. Motion carried. The meeting then adjourned.
            F.H Moore Sec't.
            
               
                  6 The water boy's job was to make continuous trips to bring fresh
                        water to the threshing crew. When no water boy was hired, the task fell to the children on each
                        host farm.
            
            
            Aug. 10th 1925
            At call of Pres. Jesse Swift the White Plains Threshing ring met for the purpose of settling up the
                    accounts for the season just past. Roll of members called.
            Minutes of last meeting read and approved. A Vote was taken to decide whether Wm Scherer is to thresh
                    the ring for the coming year The vote resulted in his election. The same machine committee was
                    retained for the next year. The ring then settled the accounts for the past season. The meeting then
                    adjourned for a social time Refreshments of Ice cream and cake were served.
            F.H. Moore Sec't.
            July 11th 1926
            At call of President, Jesse Swift the White Plains Threshing ring met for the purpose of making
                    arrangements for the coming year and for any other business that might come before the meeting. Roll
                    of members called.
            Minutes of last Meeting read and approved.
            Ira Dunn was accepted as a member. The following were elected as Officers
            
               President = Henry Gesell.
               Sec't. = Frank H. Moore.
               Treasurer. = Edw. Copes.
               Captain = Adam Pfaff.
            
            The Ring drew for places as follows.
            
               
                  Bundle Teams.
               
               
                  Henry Gesell.
                  Harry Pfaff.
               
               
                  F.H. Moore
                  Ira Dunn.
               
               
                  Howard Roemer
                  Jesse Swift
               
               
                  H.C. Gesell.
                  Christ Seibert.
               
               
                  Grain Teams.
               
               
                  Wm Suhre.
                   
                  H. Nierstheimer
               
               
                  Pitchers
               
               
                  Ed. Copes
                   
                  Geo. Hoffman.
               
               
                  Albert Moster
                  Ray Jones.
                  John Koeppel.
               
               
                  Grain Men
               
               
                  Harry Green.
                   
                  Peter Fritz
               
            
            
            A Committee for the settlement Meeting and Social was appointed as follows
            Peter Fritz—Wm Suhre and Howard Roemer
            Motion carried to dinner the hands and they go home for supper.
            No further business the meeting adjourned.
            F.H. Moore Sec't.
            Spt. 2nd 1926
            At call of Pres. Henry Gesell, the White Plains Threshing Ring Met for the purpose of settling the
                    Acc'ts for the threshing season just past and to transact any other business that might
                    come before the meeting.
            Roll of membership called.
            Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
            The Ring voted on Machine for the next year with the following result. Wm Scherer was chosen. A
                    Machine Committee was appointed as follows Adam Pfaff, Harry Green and Henry Nierstheimer.
            The ring proceeded to settle the accounts for the past season. The meeting adjourned for a social
                    time.
            F.H. Moore Sect
            Peter Fritz returned $1.90 to the treasurer for ice cream returned.
            July 8 1927
            At Call of Pres Henry Gesell the White Ring Threshing Ring met for the Purpose of making arrangements
                    for the coming season. Roll called and Minutes of last Meeting Read and approved. Elmer Suhre was
                    admitted into the Ring. The following Officers were elected for the next year. Pres'. Henry
                    Gesell. Sec't. F.H. Moore. Treas'r. Edw. Copes./Cap't. H C. Gesell. A
                    motion to amend Sec't 3 of the By-Laws to Read. The Captain shall be chosen by chance the
                    same as the other hands. Motion Carried. The drawing resulted as follows.
            
               
                  Bundle Team.
               
               
                  Henry Gesell
                   
                  Peter Fritz
               
               
                  Adam Pfaff
                   
                  Howard Romer
               
               
                  Wm Suhre
                   
                  Geo. Hoffman
               
               
                  Elmer Suhre
                   
                  Ira Dunn
               
               
                  Pitcher.
               
               
                  Edw. Copes.
                  H.C. Nierstheimer
                  F.H. Moore
               
               
                  Harry Pfaff.
                  Christ. Siebert
                   
               
               
               
                  Grain Team.
               
               
                  John Koeppel.
                  Harry Green
                   
                  Grain Men.
               
               
                  Albert Moster
                  Ray Jones7
                  
               
            
            Moved and Seconded that the extra men be paid the same am't as the members of the ring in
                    difference 25 ct per 100. The Pres. appointed the following as a Committee for the Settlement
                    meeting John Koeppel, Adam Pfaff & Harry Green.
            Meal arrangements the same as last year. Moved and Seconded that the Settlement Meeting be held in
                    the afternoon Motion carried.
            F.H. Moore Sec't.
            August 5th 27
            At call of Pres. Henry Gesell the White Plains threshing Ring met for the purpose of settling the
                    accounts for the season past and to transact any business that might come before the meeting Roll of
                    members called.
            Minutes of last meeting read and approved
            A Machine Committee for the next year are appointed as follows. Geo. Hoffman, Harry Pfaff and H.C.
                    Gesell. The Ring proceeded the settle the acc'ts for the past season.
            The meeting then adjourned for a social time with Ice Cream & cake.
            F.H. Moore Sec't.
            July 11th 1928
            At the call of the Pres. Henry Gesell the white Plains Threshing Ring met to make arrangements for
                    the coming year. The officers elected were Henry Gesell Pres. Basil Copes Treas. Wm Suhre Sec. Clive
                    Story Wm Studt & Gus Pelsor were admitted as new members of the ring. Minutes of the last
                    meeting were read and approved. Alfred Gesell was hired by the ring. His pay being 25 per hundred
                    bushel The Capt. Henry Neirstheimer was asked to buy a new fork and to pay for same. He being later
                    paid by the ring. The time to quit loading was set at about six oclock, the exact time to be left to
                    the judgment of the Capt. The difference in threshing is the same as last year 25c per hundred bu.
                    Meals 
                  
                     7 The names of the grain men were omitted in the minutes. Names were
                            determined by checking the preceding and succeeding years' membership list.
               
                     & other items to be the same as other years. The Pres.
                    appointed a committee of Pete Fritz Geo Hoffman & Gus Pelson to make arrangements for the
                    settlement meeting to be held at the church in the afternoon. The members drew their jobs as follows
                    Henry Nierstheimer Capt. Bundle wagons Wm Studt Henry Gesell Adam Pfaff Harry Pfaff Clive Story
                    Howard Roemer Chris Siebert & Wm Suhre, Grain teams were Basil Copes & Henry Gesell,
                    Pitchers Pete Fritz Geo Hoffman and Gus Pelsor, wheat handlers were John Keoppel Harry Green
            William Suhre Sec
            
            Aug 7 1928
            At the call of the Pres. Henry Gesell Jr. the White Plains Threshing Ring met for the purpose of
                    settling the accounts for the season. Roll of members called Minutes of the last meeting read and
                    approved. A committee for hiring a machine for next year was appointed as follows Harry Pfaff Basil
                    Copes and Wm Suhre. Henry Niersthiemer was pad $1.75 for a new fork. Alfred Gesell was
                    paid $12.69 as extra man for the ring. The ring threshed 4253 bu wheat 627 bu oats
                    & 156 bu rye. The ring paid Pete Fritz $11.50 for 10 gal ice cream Basil Copes
                    Treas reported a balance of 57c in the Treas. After all accounts were settled the members and their
                    familes had a social time of ice cream & cake
            William Suhre Sec.
            
            Ammended By Laws in this meeting July 8 1929
            At the call of the Pres Henry Gesell the members of the White Plains Threshing ring met to make
                    arrangements for the season The officers elected were Henry Gesell Pres. Basil Copes
                    Treas—Wm Suhre Sec. Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. The men drew
                    their places as follows Bundle teams— John Keoppel, Wm Studt, Harry Pfaff Henry
                    Neirsthimer, Gus Pelsor Geo. Hoffman Clive Story & Chris Siebert Grain Wagons were Henry
                    Gesell Jr. Basil Copes Pitchers Adam Pfaff Harry Green Pete Fritz Grain Handlers Henry C. Gesell Wm
                    Suhre Capt. Howard Roemer. Aaron Gesell was hired to pitch wheat for 35c per hundred bushels. The
                    ring decided to amend the by-laws to read that each man must pay 35c for his dinner. And also that
                    each man taking a team shall receive 40c per hundred bu. difference while hands receiving 25c. The
                    difference in threshing was to be figured to a bu. A Committee for the next meeting was appointed.
                    Wm Studt Geo Hoffman & Wm Suhre
            Wm Suhre Sec.
            
            
               A COAL BURNING ENGINE FIRES THE SEPARATOR IN THIS EARLY TWENTIETH CENTURY INDIANA
                            THRESHING PICTURE. IN MOST THRESHING RINGS, INCLUDING THE WHITE PLAINS RING, EACH FARMER HAD TO SUPPLY THE COAL OR WOOD TO RUN THE ENGINE AT THE "HOME" FARM. THE BUNDLE
                            WAGONERS ARE UNLOADING INTO A SELF-FEEDER WITH A DIVIDING BOARD DOWN THE CENTER. NORMALLY, HOWEVER, ONLY ONE MAN
                            STOOD ATOP THE SEPARATOR RATHER THAN THE THREE HERE DEPICTED.
               Courtesy J. C. Allen & Son, Inc., West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana.
            
            Aug 8 1929
            At the call of the Pres Henry Gesell Jr, the White Plains Threshing Ring met to settle up business
                    for the past season. Roll of members called. Minutes of the last meeting was read &
                    approved.
            Aaron Gesell was paid $18.36 by the ring for labor as pitcher. Geo Hoffman was paid
                    $11.00 for ice cream. The Treas. Basil Copes reported a balance of $1.98. A
                    vote was taken for a thresher for next year with 3 no's and 11 yes' for Wm
                    Scherer. A Committee was appointed to see him composed of Adam Pffaf, Peter Fritz & Harry
                    Green. The ring threshed 5247 bushels. The meeting adjourned for a social time of ice cream
                    & cake.
            W.F. Suhre Sec.
            June 30—1930
            At the call of the President Henry Gesell the members of the White Plains threshing ring met to make
                    arrangements for the season. Minutes of the last meeting was read and approved. Officers  elected were Pres. Henry Gesell Treas. Basil Copes Sec. Wm Suhre.
                    Benison Masters & Elmer Klemme were admitted as new members of the ring. The ring voted to
                    strike out the admendent to the by laws of making a difference between a team & a hand. The
                    difference of all shall be the same as last year 25c per hundred bu. and to break on 80 bu. Dinner
                    same as last year 30c per plate.8 Henry Schriber was hired as extra pitcher for
                    35c per hundred bu. The Capt. was ordered to buy two new forks the ring to pay for them at next
                    meeting. The Committee for the social time at the next meeting were Pete Fritz, Elmer Klemme, Geo
                    Hoffman The men drew their places as follows Capt. John Niersthimer Bundle teams Howard Roemer
                    Benison Masters, Adam Pffaf, Elmer Klemme, John Koeppel Harry Green Henry Gesell, Pete Fritz. Grain
                    Teams Geo Hoffman & Gus Pelson. Grain handlers Chris Siebert, Clive Story. Pitchers, Basil
                    Copes, Wm Studt Wm Suhre.
            No other business meeting adjourned
            Wm Suhre Sec.
            July 19 1930
            At the call of the Pres Henry Gesell the White Plains Threshing Ring met to settle business for the
                    past season. Roll of members called. Minutes of the last meeting read & approved. Henry
                    Schriber was paid $16.64 for labor as pitcher. Geo Hoffman was paid $11.50 for
                    ice cream. The treas. Basil Copes reported a balance of 56c The ring purchased 2 new forks for
                    $3.20. The ring also paid 4.00 for a floral piece for the late Henry Niersthimer. A vote
                    was taken for Wm Scherer for thresherman for next year, the vote being 12 yes 1 no. A Com. was
                    appointed to hire him composed of Adam Pfaff Pete Fritz Basil Copes. The Com. was asked to see if
                    they could not get a reduction in the price of threshing for next year. The ring decided to buy
                    floral pieces for all deceased members of the ring, the price being $4.00. The Pres. was
                    to take charge of this when occasion came This applies only to actual members of the ring. The ring
                    adjourned for a social time of ice cream and cake
            Wm Suhre Sec.
            
               
                  8 In the 1929 minutes it is written that "each man must pay 35c
                        for his dinner." It appears that the 1930 figure is incorrect as the 1931 minutes state
                        that "we pay 35 per plate, the same as last year."
            
            
            July 7 1931
            The members of the White Plains Threshing ring met for the purpose of making arrangements for the
                    coming year Roll of members called. Minutes of the last meeting was read and approved. Officers
                    elected were Pres. Henry Gesell Jr. Treas. Basil Copes, Sec. Wm Suhre. Harry Stewart was admitted as
                    a new member of the ring. Motion made that a difference of 20c per hundred bu. be paid. Motion
                    carried Motion made that we discontinue paying for our dinner. Motion lost. Motion made that we pay
                    35c per plate, the same as last year Motion carried. The ring hired 
                        Paris
                     Hornsby and Bryan Sloane as grain handlers for 20c per hundred bu. The Pres. appointed
                    a social Committee for the next meeting of Pete Fritz Geo. Hoffman and Elmer Klemme. The members
                    drew their places as follows. Capt. Wm Studt Bundle wagons Basil Copes Henry Gesell Jr Geo Hoffman
                    Harry Green Adam Pfaff Elmer Klemme Chris Siebert, Clive Story. Grain wagons Harry Stewart Wm Suhre
                    Pitchers Howard Roemer Henry Gesell John Koeppel Pete Fritz. As there was no other business the
                    members adjourned.
            Wm Suhre Sec.
            Sept 11—1931
            The members of the White Plains Threshing Ring met to settle for the past season. Roll of members
                    called. Luther Story and Bryan Solone [Sloane?] were paid $25.25 a piece for labor. The
                    difference in labor and meals was paid by each member. A vote was taken for a thresherman for 1932.
                    The vote being Wm. Sherer nine 9, Clarence Wolber three 39 Oscar Gettig two 2.
                    The Pres. appointed the following Com. to hire Mr. Scherer Basil Copes ch. Adam Pfaff and Pete
                    Fritz. Owing to the lateness of the season10 the ring voted not to have ice
                    cream or social time. As there was no other business the meeting adjourned.
            Wm. Suhre Sec. Extra[:] 12612 bu of grain was threshed
            
               
                  9 Clarence Wolber was William Scherer's main competitor in the
                        White Plains area. Wolber lived on a farm in Section 22 of Blooming Grove Township. Interview
                        with Basil Copes, February 13, 1981.
               
                  10 1931 was a very wet year, as evidenced by the nine week period between
                        the organization and settlement meetings. Threshing that summer began in late August, and by
                        mid-September farmers began harvesting their corn. That summer also witnessed the paving of
                        Route 1, the major road between 
                            Brookville
                         and Blooming Grove. Steam engines, with their heavy weight and lugged wheels, were
                        not allowed to travel on the new surface. That season William Scherer switched from steam power
                        to a ligher gasoline tractor. Ibid.
               
            
            
            July 5 1932
            The members of White Plains threshing ring met and were called to order by the President H. Gesell to
                    make arrangements for threshing the 1932 crop. Minutes of las meting read & approved Roll of
                    members called H. Davis was admitted as a new member of the ring. Officers elected were Henry Gesell
                    Pres. Basil Copes Treas. & Harry Green Sec. Motion was made to pay 15c per. hundred
                    difference for threshing, motion carried. Basil Copes chairman of committe to hire thresher reported
                    hiring Scherer to thres. ring for 4c per. bu.11 A motion was made not to have
                    social time at settlement meeting Motion Carried. The ring hired Phil Raby
                    & Luther Story as grain bundlers for 15c per. hundred bu. Motion was made that Capt. should
                    not send teams to field for loads after five thirty Motion Carried.
            [The members] drew their places as follows Capt. Wm. Suhre. bundle wagons H. Roemer, A. Pfaff, Wm.
                    Studt H. Stewart, H. Davis, C. Story, C. Sibert & E. Klemme. Grain teams J. Keopple
                    & P. Fritz. Pitchers, Geo. Hofman Basil Copes H. Gesell & Harry Green
            There being no other business the meeting adjourned.
            H. Green Sec.
            July 26, 32
            The members of the white plains threshing ring met to settle for the past season. Roll of members
                    called. Minutes of last meeting read and approved. Phil Raby & Luther Story were paid
                    $8.10 each for labor. The president appointed the following committe to hire thresher.
                    Pete Fritz chairman Wm. Suhre & Basil Copes. There being no other business the meeting
                    adjourned.
            Harry Green Sec
            June [?] 1933
            The members of the white plains threshing ring met to make arrangements for threshing. The meeting
                    was called to order by the President Henry Gesell. Roll of members called. Minutes of last meeting
                    were read. James Wingate, Ed Rosenberger Cliff Heeb & Edgar Precht were admitted as new
                    members of the ring. Pete Fritz Chairman of committe to hire thresher reported hiring Scherer to do
                    the threshing. The members drew their places as follows. Grain teams Basil Copes & Cliff
                    Heeb. Bundle teams. 
                  
                     11 This figure is down from the six to seven cents per bushel of wheat
                            threshed that was charged in the mid-twenties. The price for rye threshing was generally the
                            same as for wheat; oats typically ran from one half to three quarters of this amount.
               
                    
                    
                  THE ACTIVITIES UNDERWAY IN THIS EARLY TWENTIETH CENTURY INDIANA THRESHING SCENE PARALLEL THOSE CARRIED OUT BY THE WHITE PLAINS RING. THE WAGON NEXT TO THE STEAM ENGINE IS
                                PROBABLY THE WATER WAGON, AND
                            THE MAN ON THE SEPARATOR MAY WELL BE TALLYING THE NUMBER OF BUSHELS THRESHED ON THE AUTOMATIC WEIGHER.
                  Courtesy J. C. Allen & Son, Inc., West 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana.
                Edgar Precht, Ed. Klemme H. Gesell, A. Pfaff, C. Seibert H. Roe-mer, Wm. Suhre &
                    H. Green Capt. J. Wingate. Pichers Wm. Studt E. Rosenberger & P. Fritz. Duroc Karl &
                    George were hired to help do threshing at 15c per. hundred bu. There being no other business the
                    meeting adjourned.
            H. G Sec.
            July 21 1933
            The members of the white plains threshing ring met to settle for the past season. The members were
                    all present. The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. Duroc, George and Karl were
                    paid $6.90 each for labor. Members of ring voted that supper would not be served Machine
                    hands next season. A Motion was made that any member of ring who had any grain to thres other than
                    wheat that would get mixed with wheat should thresh  it before
                    he threshed his wheat.12 Motion Carried. The Presidend appointed the following
                    Committe to hire thresher for next season Pete Fritz, Chairman Basil Copes & Wm. Suhre.
            There being no other business the meeting adjourned.
            H. Green, Sec.
            June 27, 1934.
            The White Plains threshing ring met to make arrangements for threshing the 1934 crop. There were 12
                    members present. The minutes of the last meeting was read and approved. Andy Knecht and 
                        Chester
                     Schomber were admitted as new members of the ring. The following officrs were elected.
                    Henry Gesell, Pres. H. Green Sec. & Basil Copes, Treas. Pete Fritz Chairman of Committe to
                    hire thresher reported hiring Scherer to do threshing. The members drawed their places as follows.
                    B. teams Clif Heeb, B. Copes A. Pfaff, E. Rosenberger J. Wingate A. Knecht, C. Schomber & H.
                    Green Grain teams. H. Roemer & Wm. Suhre Pitchers P. Fritz E. Klemme & Wm. Studt.
                    Capt. H. Gesell L. Gesell, H. K[a]iser and E. Klemme were hired to help thres the ring at 15c per.
                    hundred bu. There being no other business the meeting adjourned
            H. G. Sec.
            July 16, 1934
            The white Plains threshing ring met to settle for the past season The members were all present.
                    Minutes of last meeting were read and approved Herman Kaiser Lurton Gesell and Elmer Kleeme were
                    paid $9.20 each for labor. A motion was made to hire Scherer to do the threshing next
                    year. Motion Carried. There being no other business the meeting adjourned.
            Harry Green, Sec.
            July [8?] 193513
            
            The White Plains Threshing Ring met to make arrangements for threshing grain. There were 12 members
                    present. Minutes of the last meeting were read & approved. John Manne—C. Carleton
                    and Elmer Quante were admitted as new members of the ring. A 
                  
                     12 As some of the threshed wheat would be used as seed the following
                            year, farmers complained when they found other types of grain, especially rye, mixed in with
                            their seed wheat. If each farmer finished his threshing with wheat, no problem would arise.
                            Interview with Basil Copes, February 6, 1981.
                  
                     13 Preceding the July, 1935, entry is a list of names and jobs that,
                            with a few exceptions, matches the formally written list in the secretary's
                            minutes. It is assumed that these were the originally drawn places as taken down by Green,
                            who adjusted the list to correspond to any trading of positions that occurred.
               
                     motion was made to have the present officers another year. H.
                    Gesell Pres, Basil Copes treas, Harry Green Sec. Motion carried The members drew for their places as
                    follows. Bundle Teams. B. Copes, A. Pfaff, J. Wingate Wm. Studt P. Fritz C. Shombre E. Rosenberger
                    & H. Green Grain teams. Wm. Suhre & A. Knecht. Grain Handles. H. Roemer & C.
                    Carleton Pitcher. J. Manne Capt. H. Gesell E. Quante, F. Faffe L. Gesell & G. Metzger were
                    hired as pitchers for the ring at 15c per. Hundred bu. There being no other business the meeting
                    adjourned.
            H. Green. Sec.
            August 5, 1935
            The white plains threshing ring met to settle for the past season. Roll of members called. Geo.
                    Metzger, Fred Pfaff & Lurton Gesell were paid $12.30 each for labor for ring.
                    Geo. Gesell was paid $10.95 for hauling drinking water. The members voted to hire Scherer
                    to do threshing next season. There being no other business the meeting adjourned.
            H. Green Sec.
            June [?] 1936
            The Members of the White Plains Threshing Ring met to make arrangements for threshing grain. The
                    meting was called to order by the Presidend H. Gesell. Roll of members called. Minutes of the last
                    meeting were read and approved. The officrs elected were H. Gesell Pres Basil Copes Treas. &
                    H. Green Sec. The members drew for their places as follows. Wm. Suhre Capt. Bundle Teams. A. Pfaff,
                    H. Roemer, E. Rosenberger, J. Wingate, B. Copes, C. Schomber, J. Manne & P. Fritz. Grain
                    Teams. H. Gesell & C. Carleton Pitchers Wm. Studt. Grain wrestlers A. Knecht, & H.
                    Green. E. Quante Gesell Bros. & Carl H. were hired to help thres grain at 15c per 100 bu.
                    There being no other business the meeting adjourned.
            H. Green Sec.
            July 15 1936
            The members of the White Plains Threshing Ring met to settle for the past season. Meeting was called
                    to order by the President H. Gesell. Roll of members called. Gesell Bros. E. Quante and Carl H. were
                    paid $7.80 each for labor for the ring. P. Fritz & A. Pfaff were appointed as
                    committe to hire thresher for the next season. There being no other business the meeting adjourned
            H. Green Sec.
            
            July 5, 1937
            The White Plains threshing ring met to make arrangements for threshing grain. The meeting was called
                    to order by Pres. H Gesell. Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. Carl Precht was
                    admitted as a member of the ring. The officers were elected. H. Gesell Pres. Basil Copes Treas H
                    Green Sec. A motion was made to pay 30c per. Hundred bu. difference for threshing. Motion carried. A
                    motion was made for members to pay 50c each for dinner. Motion Carried. The members drew for their
                    places as follows. Bundle teams P Fritz E. Rosenberger, Precht Roemer Knecht Schomber Suhre
                    & Copes Grain teams. Green & Wingate Pitchers. Studt Pfaff, & Manne. H.
                    Gesell capt. Geo. Gesell & Dale Wingate were hired to help with grain at 30c per. hundred
                    bu. Com. to hire threshr reported hiring Scherer to do threshing. There being no other business the
                    meeting adjourned
            H. Green Sec.
            July 28 1937
            The White Plains Threshing Ring met to settle for the past season Roll of members called. The hired
                    hands were paid $15.00 each. C. Schomber & Pete Fritz were appointed as committe
                    to hire thresher for the next year.
            The meeting adjourned.
            Harry Green Sec.
            June 29—38
            The White Plains Threshing ring met to make the arrangements for threshing. The meeting was called to
                    order by Pres. H. Gesell. Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. There were three
                    members absent. C. Doner & Stinger were admitted as new members of the ring.
            The members drew their places as follows. Cap. C. Precht.
            Bundle teams. Stinger Wingate Knecht, Schomber Green Gesell Manne & Studt.
            Grain Teams Copes & Fritz. Pitchers Suhre & Doner. The members hired F. Suhre D.
                    Wingate [manuscript unclear]14 Ross Heeb Howard Lanning & D. Precht to
                    help with threshing at 30c per. H. bu.
            The meeting adjourned
            Harry Green Sec.
            
               
                  14 A smeared word appears at this point in the minutes. It was impossible
                        to determine whether this was a separate name, Ross Heeb's first name, or simply an
                        error on Green's part.
            
            
            July 15, 1938.
            The members of the White Plains Threshing Ring met to settle for the past season Roll of members
                    called. The minutes of the las meeting were reat & approved The hired men were paid 12.90
                    each. The members voted to hire Scherer to do threshing the next year. Wm. Suhre & Harry
                    Green were appointed as committe to hire thresher for the next year. The meeting adjourned
            Harry Green Sec.
            June 29, 39
            The White Plains Threshing Ring met to make arrangements for threshing. Meeting was called to order
                    by Pres. H. Gesell. Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. Geo. Pflum & Harry
                    Stang were admitted as new members of the Ring. Officers elected were H. Gesell. Pres. Basil Copes,
                    Treas. & H. Green Sec. The members drew for their places as follows
            Bundle teams. Knecht, Stinger Suhre Stang, Doner Wingate Gesell & Green. Grain teams Copes
                    & Schomber.
            Pitchers Studt & Pflum Capt. Precht. A motion was made to pay 25c per. Hundred bu. difference
                    Motion carried. Six hands were hired to help with threshing at 25c per. hundred bu.
            The meeting adjourned
            H. Green Sec.
            July 17, 1939
            The White Plains Threshing Ring met to settle for the past season. Meeting called to order by Pres.
                    H. Gesell. Roll of members called. The hired hands were paid $10.00 each. The member
                    voted to hire Scherer to do threshing the next year. Wm. Suhre & Basil Copes were appointed
                    as committe to hire thresher. Some of the member complained of being short on number of bu. threshed
                    machine measure The committe were instructed to hire Scherer if he would agree to weigh grain
                    correctly next year.15
            
            The meeting Adj.
            H. Green Sec.
            July—8—1940.
            The White Plains Threshing Ring met to make the arrangements for threshing. Meeting called to order
                    by Pres. H. Gesell. Minutes 
                  
                     15 This complaint refers to the fact that some farmers noticed a
                            difference between the amount of bushels counted on the machine weigher, which provided the
                            basis for the thresherman's costs, and the amount of bushels credited to the farmer
                            who brought his grain to local markets. Basil Copes remembers this incident well; he passes
                            it off as a small problem involving only two or three ring members. Interview with Basil
                            Copes, February 6, 1981.
               
                     of the last meeting were read and approved. Committe reported
                    hiring Scherer to do threshing. The members drew for their places as follows. Bundle teams. Wingate
                    Copes Knecht Suhre Precht Gesell Studt & Green Grain Teams. Stang & Keopple Pitcher.
            Geo Pflum Capt. C. Schomber. Seven hands were hired. The meeting adj Harry Green
                    Sec.
            July 26 1940
            The White Plains Threshing Ring met to settle for the past season Meeting called to order by
                    President H. Gesell. Roll of members called. The hired men were paid 10.75 each. C. Schomber
                    & G. Pflum were appinted as committe to hire Scherer for the next year. The meeting adj.
            H. Green Sec.
            June 30—1941
            The members of White Plains Threshing Ring met to organize for the coming year. Minutes of the last
                    meeting were read and accepted as recorded. Officers were elected as follows Henry Gesell Jr. Pres.
                    Basil Copes Treas. Wm Suhre Sec. 
                        Chester
                     Schomber reported hiring Wm Scherer as thresherman Due to the increase price of wheat
                    6c per bu would be charged. Motion made we pay 30(2 difference including hired labor. Motion carried
                    Members drew their positions as follows.
            Bundle Teams Geo Pflum Harry Stang Harry Green Andrew Knecht Basil Copes Carl Precht Henry C Gesell
                    & Wm Suhre. Grain Teams 
                        Chester
                     Schomber Henry Gesell Jr. Due to the lack of members the position of Capt. was
                    discontined. Last teams were to clean up at separator and last Grain Team to care for canvass
                    & forks.16 Chas Wolying, W.B. Cornett Bob Cornett J.C. Penny &
                    Fred Suhre were hired as pitchers. Maynard Stang & Francis Rosefeld as grain men. Calvin
                    Schomber as water boy.
            Henry Gesell Pres. Wm Suhre Sec
            July 21—1941
            The members of White Plains Threshing Ring met to settle for the past season. Minutes of the last
                    meeting were read and approved as recorded. Roll call of members was called and all were 
                  
                     16 Both of these jobs were formerly handled by the captain.
               
                    
                    
                  THIS EARLY TWENTIETH CENTURY INDIANA PHOTOGRAPH ILLUSTRATES THE IMPORTANCE OF THE BLOWERMAN
                            TO THE THRESHING PROCESS. HERE HE IS CONTROLLING THE BUILDING OF THE STRAW STACK BY MANIPULATING WHEELS AND CRANKS ON THE DISCHARGE PIPE. THE AUTOMATIC WEIGHER IS ALSO
                                EVIDENT IN THE CENTER OF THE SEPARATOR.
                  Courtesy J. C. Allen & Son, Inc., West 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana.
                present Members paid into the treasury $139.20 which was paid out to the hired
                    men according to labor performed. The members of the ring voted to have Wm Scherer as thresherman
                    for 1942. Henry C. Gesell Harry Green and Basil Copes were appointed by the chair to contact Mr.
                    Scherer and make arrangements for next year
            Henry Gesell Pres Wm Suhre Sec
            June 29—1942
            The members of White Plains Threshing ring met to organize for the year. Minutes of the last meeting
                    were read and approved as recorded. Officers were elected as follows. Henry Gesell Pres. Basil Copes
                    Treas. Wm Suhre Sec.
            Walter Estridge was admitted as a new member of the ring. Members of the ring drew their positions as
                    follows—Bundle Teams Schomber
                    Precht—Pflum—Copes—Snow—Green. Grain Teams
                    Knecht—Estridge—Pitchers H. Gesell Jr. & Suhre. Clarence Pflum was
                    hired as grain handler. Fred Suhre as pitcher & Herbert 
                    Estridge as water boy Salery for hired men & difference between members of ring was put at
                    40c per hundred bu. The members of the ring voted to carry their dinner. Time to start in morning
                    was set at 8 oclock (Central war time) and not send any teams out after 6 P.M.
            Henry Gesell Jr. Pres. Wm. Suhre Sec.
            1942 Settlement meeting missing 1943 Organization meeting missing July 21, 1943
            The members of White Plains Threshing ring met to settle for the past season Minutes of the last
                    meeting were read & approved as recorded
            The ring paid to the treasurer the amount of $25.60 to hired help and members according to
                    labor performed
            The chairman appointed Henry C. Gesell, Basil Copes & Harry Green as a thrashing committee
                    for 1944
            There being no other business the meeting ajourned.
            Wm Suhre Sec. Henry Gesell Pres.
         
         
         
            
               The Papers of Eugene V. Debs: A Review Essay
            Errol Wayne Stevens∗
            
            
               The Papers of Eugene V. Debs, 1834–1945: A Guide to the Microfilm
                    Edition. Edited by J. Robert Constantine; associate editor, Gail Malmgreen. (
                        New York
                    : Microfilming Corporation of America, 1983. Pp. vii, 163. Notes, selected bibliography,
                    indexes. Paperbound, $25.00.)
            Born in 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1855, Eugene Victor Debs is one of Indiana's best known, but least
                    appreciated, native sons. Like his fellow Terre Hautean, Theodore Dreiser, Debs the socialist has
                    been something of an embarrassment to many Hoosiers, but as he becomes more and more of a historical
                    figure and less of a living reality—he died nearly sixty years ago—this
                    attitude seems to be on the wane. With the publication of Nick Salvatore's
                    Bancroft-prize-winning biography in 1982 and the appearance of the microfilm edition of The Papers of Eugene V. Debs the following year, a revival of interest in the Indiana
                    socialist appears to be underway.
            The son of Jean Daniel and Marguerite Marie Bettrich Debs, both immigrants from the Alsace, Gene left
                    school at the age of fourteen to work on the railroads, first as a painter and later as a fireman.
                    Even after his brief career on the rails—it lasted only five years—he remained
                    active in the Vigo Lodge of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen, rising rapidly to become national
                    secretary and editor of its magazine.
            Debs began his career as a conservative trade unionist, taking a dim view of strikes and cultivating
                    worker-management cooperation. 
                  
                     ∗ Errol Wayne Stevens is associate curator of historic
                            records, National History Museum of 
                                Los Angeles County
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  EUGENE V. DEBS, AGED FOURTEEN, ON HIS FIRST JOB
                            AS A PAINTER FOR THE TERRE HAUTE
                            AND INDIANAPOLIS RAILROAD
                  
                  Courtesy Eugene V. Debs Foundation, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana.
                Debs's role model during these years was William Riley McKeen, a banker and owner
                    of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad. In 1885 Debs married Katherine Metzel, the stepdaughter of a respectable
                    local druggist, and built her a fine home that later attracted much criticism from opponents both
                    within and outside the socialist movement. For a time Debs was a promising Democratic politician,
                    winning two terms as 
                        Terre Haute city
                     clerk and one term in the state legislature. His experience in that august body, where
                    the bills he introduced on railroad labor reform were mercilessly watered down in the Senate, left
                    him with a jaundiced view of politics.
            Unlike most men Debs became more radical as he grew older. By the late 1880s he had dropped his
                    opposition to strikes and had come to regard the railroad brotherhoods as ineffective craft unions
                    frequently more at odds with one another than with their employers. In 1892 he resigned as secretary
                    of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and helped form the American Railway Union, which ignored
                    craft lines and united all railroad workers into one organization. The new union was very
                    successful, recruiting 150,000 members in less than a year and defeating James  J. Hill's powerful Great Northern Railroad in an eighteen-day
                    strike. These successes proved only temporary. In 1894 the union made the fateful decision to
                    boycott Pullman cars in support of a strike of the company's workers at Pullman, 
                        Illinois
                    . The union was crushed in the face of an overwhelming combination of corporate
                    opposition, federal troops, and court injunctions.
            The Pullman strike was a turning point in Debs's life. He was convicted of defying a federal
                    injunction that forbade his participation in all strike activities and spent six months in the
                    Woodstock, 
                        Illinois
                    , jail. This gave him time to reflect on the inequities of the capitalist system. A
                    parade of visitors came to see the imprisoned union leader. Many were prominent socialists such as
                    Victor Berger of 
                        Milwaukee
                    , Thomas J. Morgan of 
                        Chicago
                    , and Keir Hardie of 
                        Scotland
                    . He read many books during this period and later claimed to have been deeply influenced
                    by Karl Kautsky, the 
                        German
                     popularizer of Karl Marx. A year after his release Debs publicly announced his
                    conversion to socialism. "The issue is Socialism versus Capitalism," he wrote in
                    the January 1, 1897, issue of the Railway Times. "I am for Socialism
                    because I am for humanity."
            Debs's career as a socialist is well known. Five times he was the Socialist party's
                    presidential candidate. In 1912 he won 6 percent of the total vote, the highest ever given a
                    Socialist candidate. In 1920 he campaigned from behind the walls of the 
                        Atlanta
                     penitentiary and won nearly a million votes. He remained a champion of industrial
                    unionism throughout his career and, despite his decision to embrace a creed which most of them
                    rejected, remained very popular among rank-and-file workers.
            In his famous Canton, 
                        Ohio
                    , speech in June, 1918, Debs condemned World War I as a class war fought for the benefit
                    of the capitalists at the expense of the workers. This was little different from what he had said in
                    previous speeches, but on this occasion the federal government deemed his remarks sufficiently
                    disloyal to warrant prosecution under the Espionage Act. Debs was convicted and spent two and a half
                    years behind bars—most of them in the federal penitentiary in 
                        Atlanta
                    . During his trial Debs repeated his famous remark: "While there is a lower
                    class, I am in it, while there is a criminal element I am of it, and while there is a soul in
                    prison, I am not free." These words may sound maudlin and melodramatic to the modern ear,
                    but they were sincere. The socialist became a popular figure among both prisoners and prison guards.
                    Inmates frequently sought his advice and help. Prison officials often turned to Debs to assist in
                    counseling difficult prisoners. Outside the walls supporters launched a nationwide campaign to seek
                    his release, but it was not until Warren G. Harding assumed the presidency that the socialist
                    received a pardon.
            
            Debs spent his last years as the head of a party torn apart by internal dissension and scorned by a
                    hostile public. Although he remained active until nearly the end, his magic had begun to fade, and
                    he spoke to dwindling audiences. He died at Lindlahr Sanitarium outside of 
                        Chicago
                     on October 20, 1926.
            Debs's biographers have treated him well, portraying the socialist leader as a heroic figure
                    motivated almost solely by a desire to improve the lot of those crushed down by the emerging
                    capitalist-industrialist society. It is difficult not to conclude from their works that Debs was
                    indeed a compassionate man with a profound and genuine concern for his fellow human beings. James
                    Whitcomb Riley, a close friend and drinking companion, captured this aspect of his personality in
                    his poem "Regardin' Terry Hut": 
                        And there's 'Gene Debs—a man ‘at stands And
                            jes’ holds out in his two hands As warm a heart as ever beat Betwixt here and the
                            Jedgment Seat!
                    
            
            The earliest biographies, such as David Karsner's Debs: His Authorized Life and
                        Letters (1919) and McAlister Coleman's Eugene V. Debs: A Man
                    Unafraid (1930), are unabashed hagiographies. Even Ray Ginger's 1949 volume, The Bending Cross, a fine book long considered the standard biography, is
                    uncritically admiring. Only very recently have writers begun to treat Debs as anything like a
                    flesh-and-blood human being. While Bernard J. Brommel's Eugene V. Debs:
                        Spokesman for Labor and Socialism (1978) is as adoring as most previous works, it brings to
                    light for the first time Debs's affair with Mabel Curry, the wife of an Indiana State
                    University professor. David A. Corbin's article "Betrayal in the West Virginia
                    Coal Fields: Eugene V. Debs and the Socialist Party of America, 1912–1914,"
                    which appeared in the Journal of American History in 1978, broke sharply with the
                    literature on Debs by suggesting that he was not such a nice guy after all. Corbin accuses the
                    socialist of betraying rank-and-file coal miners in the interests of maintaining good relations with
                    the United Mine Workers union hierarchy. The most recent, and best, biography of Debs is Nick
                    Salvatore's Eugene V. Debs: Citizen and Socialist (1982). Although
                    certainly an admiring biographer, Salvatore deals perceptively with some of the less attractive
                    aspects of the socialist's life and character. These include his need for the constant
                    support and unquestioned loyalty of those near him, his inability to confront friends on political
                    issues, and his gradually cooling relationship with his wife. Salvatore's Debs is  a warm and compassionate man, but he is also a far more complex
                    and interesting human being than has been seen before.
            The latest entry into Debs scholarship is the microfilm edition of The Papers of Eugene
                        V. Debs, 1834–1945, edited by J. Robert Constantine and Gail Malmgreen and
                    published by the Microfilming Corporation of America. This collection should play an important role
                    in the continuing reevaluation of the life and career of this American socialist leader. The
                    collection is the product of the Debs Papers Project which began in 1979 and was completed with the
                    assistance of the National Endowment for the Humanities and the National Historical Publications and
                    Records Commission. Constantine, a professor of history at Indiana State University, is currently at
                    work on a three-volume edition of selected Debs correspondence.
            The microfilm collection, consisting of twenty-three reels, is divided into three series:
                    correspondence, published writings and speeches, and scrapbooks. A useful guide containing a
                    chronology of Debs's life, a biographical sketch, select bibliography, index, and checklist
                    accompanies the collection.
            A disappointingly small number of reels, only five, make up the correspondence in Series I. This is
                    certainly not the fault of Contantine and Malmgreen who conducted an exhaustive nationwide search to
                    locate Debs's correspondence. It is rather a testimony to the difficulty of locating
                    materials relating to even major figures of the American left. The editors further point out that
                    the "volume of surviving correspondence dating from the early years of Debs'
                    career is thin compared to that of his later years" (p. 39). Indeed it is. Reel one runs from 1834
                    to 1914. Even so, the collected correspondence is of unquestioned value not only in understanding
                    Debs's life but also for studies of American radicalism in general. A cursory check in the
                    index of David A. Shannon's The Socialist Party of America (1955) reveals
                    that out of a sample of sixty-six names, forty-one showed up as correspondents in the Debs
                    collection.
            The editors were obviously not under pressure to be selective in including letters. They indicate
                    that no "known correspondence to or from any member of the Debs family has been excluded
                    from this microfilm edition" (p. 40). The very large number of letters to and from Theodore Debs is
                    worthy of comment. Theodore acted as his brother's secretary, confidant, and alter ego. His
                    letters, according to the editors, "should be considered Eugene's correspondence"
                    (p. 39). Theodore has been badly slighted by historians, particulary by Ginger. Salvatore is more
                    sensitive in his exploration of the relationship between the two brothers, but  Theodore remains a neglected figure in the history of American
                    radicalism.
            Each document in Series I is accompanied by a target card which gives the name of correspondent (a
                    boon to those with bad luck at deciphering signatures) as well as the location of the original. At
                    the end of this series, on reel five, is a collection of thirty-two reminiscences about Debs by men
                    and women, both prominent and not so prominent, who knew him. The guide to the collection includes
                    an index by correspondent and cross referencing where possible by geographic location.
            Series II (reels six to eight) consists of Debs's published writings and speeches. The
                    editors claim that this series "comprises the largest collection of Debs'
                    published writings … ever assembled" (p. 46). Debs was an accomplished and prolific
                    journalist, and his writings appeared in many periodicals. Constantine and Malmgreen scanned the
                    entire runs (when available) of twenty-two publications that frequently carried Debs material. This
                    series also includes items from scrapbooks, clipping files, and other sources. In addition to
                    published materials Series II includes some previously unpublished speeches. Among these are
                    verbatim notes of speeches taken by government agents who shadowed Debs's public
                    appearances during the war. The editors obtained these through the Freedom of Information Act. As in
                    the correspondence series, a target card accompanies each item and includes title, place, and date
                    of publication. Unfortunately, the target card does not include the entire name of the publication,
                    only an abbreviation. To find the name of the periodical one must look in the guide, an irritating
                    inconvenience. The guide includes a checklist, arranged alphabetically, of the titles of all
                    published articles and all speeches in Series II.
            Series III, which makes up the bulk of the collection (thirteen reels or about 62 percent of the
                    total), consists of scrapbooks and clippings which Eugene and Theodore Debs compiled over the years.
                    This material is reproduced from microfilm owned by the Tamiment Library at 
                        New York
                     University. It is unfortunate that the largest part of the collection is the least
                    satisfactory. The material is poorly organized, and much of it is of questionable value. Even so,
                    important information may lie buried in these scrapbooks and clippings. The reel that this reviewer
                    sampled, reel twelve, contained correspondence relating to Debs's second imprisonment.
                    There are no target cards and no index for this series.
            
               The Papers of Eugene V. Debs joins a growing body of source materials on the
                    American left already microfilmed and widely available to researchers. Scholars will use this
                    collection for a  variety of purposes. In this
                    reviewer's mind one of the most pressing needs at the moment is a well-written biography
                    aimed at a general rather than an academic audience. Debs, once one of the most well-known and
                    admired men of his time, is fast fading from the popular consciousness. Americans need to be
                    reminded of his importance. Salvatore's new biography is excellent, but it is not in the
                    strict sense a personal biography. It is rather a "social biography" which admirably places
                    Debs within the broad context of his time and place. But however much Debs was a product of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , he was in no way a typical Terre Hautean. A new biography is needed, one which will
                    help to explain more fully the strengths and weaknesses that made Debs an exceptional man.
         
         
         
            Gayle Thornbrough and the Indiana Historical Society
            Lana Ruegamer∗
            
            Gayle Thornbrough has been an important figure on the Indiana historical scene since she joined the
                    staff of the Indiana Historical Society as a recent college graduate in 1937. Her retirement at the
                    end of September, 1984, marks an important milestone for the society and provides an occasion for
                    reviewing her contributions to Indiana history.
            Born in Hendricks County, Indiana, on October 29, 1914, the daughter of engineer Harry C. Thornbrough
                    and Bess Tyler Thornbrough, Gayle Thornbrough grew up in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in a history-minded household. Like her older sister Emma Lou, Gayle Thornbrough was an
                    outstanding student at both Shortridge High School (class of 1932) and 
                        Butler
                     University (B.A., 1936). In 1937 Thornbrough came to work as an editor for the Indiana
                    Historical Society, the society's first full-time employee. Except for a leave of absence
                    in the academic year 1941–1942 to complete a master's degree in history at the
                    University of Michigan and twenty months in 1967–1968 at the Library of Congress as a
                    specialist in early 
                        United States
                     history in the Manuscripts Division, Thornbrough's entire career has been
                    spent working in Indiana history in the Indiana Historical Society.
            Thornbrough has brought to her work in state and local history impressive personal and intellectual
                    qualifications. There is nothing provincial or narrow about Gayle Thornbrough. Though she sometimes
                    observes, with a note of surprise in her voice, that she has lived "all my life in 
                        Indianapolis
                    " (overlooking a year in 
                        Ann Arbor
                     and nearly two years in 
                        Washington
                    , B.C.), her interests are splendidly cosmopolitan. A lifelong devotee of the theater
                        
                  
                     ∗ Lana Ruegamer is the author of A History of
                                the Indiana Historical Society, 1830–1980 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1980).
               
                    
                    
                  GAYLE THORNBROUGH
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society. 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                and belles lettres, she is also a serious traveler, at home in many parts of the world.
                    She has been an exemplary citizen, publicly supporting civil rights and civil liberties during times
                    when it was unpopular to do so in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Her wide-ranging curiosity about the world combined with a broad acquaintance with
                    classical and modern literature has equipped Thornbrough to "do" state history on a high
                    level. These qualities have been reflected throughout her career.
            This remarkable career, spanning forty-seven years, falls into two basic periods: her years primarily
                    as an editor, 1937–1966, and her years primarily as an administrator, since 1968, with
                    special emphasis on the period since she assumed the undivided leadership of the society in 1976.
            Gayle Thombrough's contributions to Indiana history through her work as an editor are
                    enormous. They include both her work as the society's editor (1937–1966) and her
                    work for the Indiana Historical Bureau (1947–1966), the state-supported historical  agency which operated very closely with the society until 1976.
                    Beginning with her early assignments as editor of the society's pioneering Prehistory Research Series—the earliest scholarly publications on Indiana
                    archaeology—and continuing through the last volume of the Diary of Calvin
                        Fletcher, published in 1983, Thornbrough has brought to her work an outstanding level of
                    integrity, competence, industry, imagination, and good sense. The sheer quantity of her output is
                    impressive: in addition to the twenty-odd titles in which her name appears as editor, compiler,
                    coeditor, or author, there are more than fifty more works that she prepared for publication without
                    explicit acknowledgment.
            This "silent" preparation included scrupulous verification of the author's
                    research, checking footnote accuracy and direct quotations as well as evaluating inferences drawn
                    from the sources cited. Thornbrough's copyediting assignments often included either
                    extensive revision of texts or helpful suggestions and criticisms for authors leading to extensive
                    revision. In some instances in the past twenty or so years her "silent" editing has
                    consisted of the sort of guidance of research and writing usually associated with directors of
                    doctoral dissertations; this was her role, for example, in the preparation of the society's
                    sesquicentennial history, a lengthy scholarly study published in 1980. She was the copy editor for
                    the only book ever published by a historical society to win a Pulitzer prize: the lavishly
                    annotated, two-volume Old Northwest, written by R. C. Buley and published by the
                    society in 1950.
            Thornbrough's contribution to the monumental Angel Site, published by the society in 1967,
                    was crucial. Glenn A. Black, the society's longtime archaeologist, died suddenly in 1964,
                    with the manuscript of his life's work partly unfinished. To Thornbrough fell the extremely
                    complex task of commissioning chapters to fill in the areas Black had not yet written about and then
                    editing the entire work so as to achieve continuity of style. Because the entire set of original
                    illustrations and the dummy to which the set was keyed were stolen while in the printer's
                    possession, Thornbrough was called upon to perform the heroic task of replacing the 420 photographs
                    and figuring out where they belonged in the book. Despite these formidable obstacles,
                    Black's two-volume Angel Site was published in 1967 under
                    Thornbrough's oversight and was greeted with unambiguous acclaim.
            Important as these "silent" contributions to Indiana history and prehistory have been,
                    Thornbrough's national reputation was achieved by her accomplishments as an editor of
                    historical documents. The compilation, transcription, and annotation of historical  documents are very different sorts of undertakings from that of
                    copyediting. In the former case the editor has complete control over the shape and content of the
                    work, guided only by her or his judgment of what is historically significant and correct. (Whereas
                    in copyediting the editor is always subordinate to the author, in editing documents the editor is
                    subordinate only to the truth, like all historians.) Gayle Thornbrough has demonstrated an unusual
                    gift for identifying, assembling, and explaining significant documents in the history of the 
                        United States
                    , especially for the early period and for the Old Northwest. It is almost impossible to
                    work in Indiana history before the Civil War and not to base a significant part of one's
                    research on the documents edited by Gayle Thornbrough for the Indiana Historical Bureau (frequently
                    in collaboration with her older colleague, the fine historian Dorothy Riker). Included in the
                    landmark research tools that Thornbrough prepared either alone or with Riker are Journals of the General Assembly of Indiana Territory, 1805–1815 (1950); Indiana Election Returns, 1816–1851 (1960); and three volumes of the
                    indispensable messages and papers of the governors of Indiana series, including volumes on James 
                        Brown
                     Ray, 1825–1831 (1954), Noah Noble, 1831–1837 (1958), and Samuel
                    Bigger, 1840–1843 (1964).
            Thornbrough's most distinctive achievements in editing, however, are her treatments of
                    projects that reflected the individual personalities and unique settings of historical figures in
                    trying times: the paramount examples are her volumes on the Josiah Harmar-John Francis Hamtramck
                    correspondence, 1787–1791, the record of the 
                        United States
                     military garrison's frustrated attempt to establish order in 
                        Vincennes
                     in a critical period (Outpost on the 
                            Wabash
                        , 1957); the engrossing records of the Indian agents at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in the turbulent era of the War of 1812 (Letter Book of the Indian Agency
                        at 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                …, 1961, described enthusiastically by reviewer Richard Knopf of 
                        Kent
                     State in Ohio History as "but one more star in the scholarly
                    tiara of its editor …"); and the correspondence (described by one reviewer as
                    "vivid, fascinating, unromantic …") between lifelong friends Treasury Secretary
                    Albert Gallatin and Register of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Land Office John Badollet, both gifted Swiss immigrants (Correspondence of
                        John Badollet and Albert Gallatin, 1804–1836, 1963).
            Thornbrough's greatest achievement in this kind of documentary editing has come in the
                    period after she assumed heavy administrative responsibilities and is eloquent testimony both to her
                    command of this area of historical research and her devotion to history: to wit, the magnificent
                    nine-volume Diary of Calvin
                    
                    Fletcher. The Fletcher diary is probably unique in American letters for several
                    reasons: first, because it was written by a private and self-taught person who nevertheless had a
                    great deal to say worth hearing about public men and events and, second, because it was composed in
                    the Midwest by an 
                        Indianapolis city
                     father. While it is relatively rare for even "public"
                    persons—longtime holders of public office—to maintain thoughtful diaries for
                    significant periods of time (one thinks of John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams and Harold Ickes among the few who did so), it is virtually unheard of for a
                    private citizen with no strong personal claim to a substantial place in history to produce such a
                    document. Fletcher, a New Englander and "self-made" pioneer businessman, is such an
                    anomaly. His twelve quarto-sized manuscript volumes cover fifty years. In them the diarist grows
                    from frontier lawyer to wealthy and conscientious citizen, widely known and respected. Calvin
                    Fletcher knew everybody and had an opinion about everything in antebellum and Civil War 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and his diary is consequently the richest single source on 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Indiana in this time period.
            Although the Fletcher diary has been long recognized by historians as an extremely rich document, its
                    very length and richness of detail posed obstacles to its publication. The document awaited the
                    leadership and editorial talents of Gayle Thornbrough to achieve its publication. When she returned
                    to the society as director of publications and the library in 1968, her first major publishing
                    project was to secure the rights to and to begin editorial research on the diary. From the
                    publication of the first volume in 1972 the diary's significance and the superb level of
                    annotation and meticulous research were recognized as the hallmarks of Thornbrough's
                    editorial style. The publication of the diary is itself an important event in American
                    historiography, and Thornbrough led the project from beginning to end.
            Thornbrough has also been an important teacher of editors. While her colleague Dorothy Riker recalls
                    that nobody taught Thornbrough to edit (Riker credits the veteran Nellie Armstrong Robertson with
                    her own training)—"she just sat down and started right in and always seemed to know what
                    she was doing"—her younger colleagues testify to her generous help in teaching them the
                    ropes. From Shirley Snyder McCord of the Indiana Historical Bureau to Paula Lents Corpuz of the
                    society, Thornbrough has been a gentle and an effective mentor to several generations of aspiring
                    editors.
            While Gayle Thornbrough has never abandoned historical editing altogether, her primary
                    responsibilities since 1968 have been administrative. That year she was made director of both the
                         publications program and the library—which
                    together comprised the heart of the society's work—and in 1976 she was made
                    executive secretary and took over the leadership of all the society's programs. Her
                    accomplishments in both of these positions have been dramatic—perhaps especially so since
                    Thornbrough is a modest, even somewhat retiring person, who has always regarded herself primarily as
                    a historian rather than as an administrator.
            Under Thornbrough's leadership the Indiana Historical Society Library has grown from a small
                    understaffed institution with a largely uncataloged collection of books and manuscripts to a
                    well-staffed research library with its collections largely accessible to researchers. The library
                    has also formulated vigorous new collecting policies, reaching out to peoples previously
                    underrepresented in collections of Indiana history, like blacks and other ethnic groups, and looking
                    to some less traditional kinds of historical documents, like photographs. Thornbrough also planned
                    the modern facility in which the library is now housed, a building made possible by the gift of Eli
                    Lilly, for many years a society officer and member of the board of trustees.
            Gayle Thornbrough became executive secretary of the society in 1976, a few months before the death of
                    Eli Lilly and the public disclosure of the fact that he had left the society a substantial fortune,
                    10 percent of his holdings in Lilly stock. The gift reflected Lilly's confidence in the
                    institution of which Gayle Thornbrough had been such an important part for nearly forty years; since
                    1977 she has had the major leadership role in the transformation of a small historical society with
                    a distinguished publication program into the vanguard of the American historical society movement.
                    Since 1977 Thornbrough has led the society judiciously but swiftly into an impressive number of
                    innovative projects, working at every turn to expand the materials available for a full
                    understanding of Indiana and American history. Even a short list begins to suggest the range of the
                    Thornbrough-led society: supporting a new faculty position in the history of medicine at Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    ; producing a bibliography of Indiana newspapers; undertaking a new guide to Indiana on
                    the lines of the old WPA guide; publishing an award-winning record album and booklet on Indiana
                    ragtime; awarding dissertation fellowships to support research in Indiana history; and adding staff
                    support to successful but underfunded state programs like the Geneaology Division of the Indiana
                    State Library and the outstanding Indiana Junior Historical Society.
            Gayle Thornbrough has led the society through a challenging period of expansion and reevaluation in
                    the wake of the Lilly gift. She has demonstrated a steady sense of the society's scholarly
                         purpose along with a flexible response to new
                    opportunities. Her imprint on the new Indiana Historical Society has worked to insure that the old
                    values of excellence and integrity will prevail despite the excitement of dramatic new
                    opportunities.
            Gayle Thornbrough has been identified with the Indiana Historical Society so closely and for so long
                    that it is very difficult to imagine the institution without her. Her personal elegance and quiet
                    dignity set a tone of bracing gentility that made all her associates and friends stand up a little
                    straighter for the world, proud to be associated with her. Throughout her career Miss Thornbrough
                    has embodied the ideal of the lady—and the gentleman, for that matter—gentle,
                    diffident, honorable, and altogether capable. While the ideal has sometimes been set aside by
                    succeeding generations and other times transmogrified in an effort to fashion a
                    "postmodern" version, Thornbrough's personal example has reminded all who know her
                    of the sterling virtues of the older ideal.
            It was altogether fitting that Indiana University awarded Gayle Thornbrough an honorary doctor of
                    laws degree in 1983 in recognition of her distinguished career as a historian and an administrator.
                    But, by all who care about Indiana history, she will be honored for many generations to come.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Duel for the Dunes: Land Use Conflict on the Shores of Lake 
                            Michigan
                        . By Kay 
                        Franklin
                     and Norma Schaeffer. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1983. Pp. xviii, 278. Notes, maps, illustrations,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $18.95.)
            Interspersed among residential communities, industrial plants, and a state park, the Indiana Dunes
                    National Lakeshore resembles a crazy quilt. How such a national park came into existence is the
                    subject of this fascinating and informative account of efforts to "save the
                    dunes." With dramatic flair and a broad historical sweep, Kay 
                        Franklin
                     and Norma Schaeffer document the long, frustrating crusade against local entrepreneurs,
                    politicians, and corporate spokesmen who charged that "outsiders" wanted to retard
                    Indiana's progress and deplete its tax base in order to provide a playground for
                    Chicagoans. Their case study illuminates the detailed inner workings of governmental decision making
                    and policy implementation. Divided into two parts, "The Long War" and "Reluctant
                    Ally," the book provides both a historical overview and a critique of the National Park
                    Service.
            Formed more than ten thousand years ago, the Dunes of northwest Indiana spawned an amazing variety of
                    vegetation that provided pioneer ecologists with an ideal natural laboratory. Even so, local
                    boosters envisioned lakeshore industrial facilities in 
                        Porter County
                    . The Playground Association of 
                        Chicago
                     first took up the preservationist cause; its "Saturday Afternoon Walks"
                    program led to the establishment of a campsite under the auspices of the 
                        Prairie
                     Club. Failing to enlist enough political support in 
                        Washington
                    , conservationists had to settle in 1923 for a small, underfunded state park. Meanwhile,
                    completion of Burns Ditch increased the clamor for developing a harbor for steelmakers. As business
                    groups courted support from the 
                        United States
                     Army Engineers, the Save the Dunes Council collected a half-million signatures,
                    launched a sophisticated lobbying and legal campaign, and convinced Senator Paul Douglas of Illinois
                    to introduce federal parks legislation. Nonetheless, they could not halt indefinitely construction
                    of the "Port of Indiana." Once the harbor was a reality, Indiana Democrats
                    supported legislation (in 1966, just before Douglas lost his Senate seat) for a scaled-down,
                    6,539-acre park, a preserve containing, according to 
                        Franklin
                     and Schaeffer, "no land in common with the original design" (p. 169). Rather,
                    the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore "consisted of noncontiguous bits and pieces that
                    promised management problems for the National Park Service and confusion for the park's
                    clientele" 
                    
                  Reproduced from Kay 
                                Franklin
                             and Norma Schaeffer, Duel for the Dunes: Land Use Conflict on the
                                Shores of Lake 
                                    Michigan
                                
                      (
                                Urbana
                            , 1983).
               
                     (p. 174). Ironically, just a few years later the national mood
                    shifted toward ecology, and the market for American-made steel declined precipitously. In the past
                    fifteen years Dunes advocates have faced new controversies centering on park expansion, tourist
                    facilities, the threatened building of a nuclear power plant, and the reactionary policies of
                    Department of Interior Secretary James Watt.
            The authors' eight years of research yielded a harvest of information gleaned from sources
                    ranging from organizational files to oral interviews. Sometimes their generalizations are overdrawn,
                    as when they claim that "no one in Lake or Porter counties mourned the loss of the
                    progressive movement, which, in fact, had never reached the region in the first place" (p. 497).
                    Within each chapter, however, 
                        Franklin
                     and Schaeffer offer lively capsule biographies and episodic vignettes. The
                    book's only major organizational failing is that the chronology sometimes seems fractured.
                    Chapter 3, for example, should more logically follow chapter 4. Otherwise, the account is thorough,
                    accurate, and fair-minded, avoiding pejorative judgments even against the likes of Congressman
                    Charles A. Halleck. A section listing important milestones would have been welcome, as would more
                    information on inholders and some commentary on the relationship between the Indiana Dunes State
                    Park and the National Lakeshore, which, the authors succintly conclude, "exist side by
                    side, separated only by mutual distrust and a barbed wire fence" (p. 3). All in all, the book
                    reinforces the statement of Alfred A. Knopf: "You may frequently win a battle, but you can
                    never win the war. Whenever one threat is put down, another immediately arises: the struggle is
                    endless, and conservationists must always be ready to rally their forces for another fight. Even
                    triumphs carry their own dangers" (p. v).
            
               Indiana University Northwest, Gary James B. Lane
         
         
            
               Charles A. Beard: An Intellectual Biography. By Ellen Nore. (Carbondale:
                    Southern Illinois University Press, 1983. Pp. xii, 322. Frontispiece, notes, selected bibliography,
                    index. $24.95.)
            Charles A. Beard has influenced Americans in ways that neither he nor his biographers could have
                    anticipated. Let me begin by citing a personal example. In the late 1950s, while I was a student at
                    a liberal arts college in a neighboring state, I found myself on an airplane going from 
                        Dayton
                     to my home in 
                        New York City
                     following a pre-Christmas basketball tournament in that 
                        Ohio city
                    . Seated next to me was an elderly salesman from upstate 
                        New York
                     who, to make conversation as the plane prepared  to
                    take off, asked me what my major was. When I replied "history, at least for now,"
                    he proceeded to fill almost all of the time during our two-hour flight with the most amazing stories
                    of his "favorite historian," one "Charlie" Beard, who had written the
                    most wonderful books on the Constitution, Pearl Harbor, the New Deal, and America in general. Since
                    I was not quite half way through the standard sophomore year American history survey at that time, I
                    had to confess that I was not too familiar with Beard's work, but I left that flight
                    absolutely overwhelmed by the fact that a sixty-year-old salesman could discuss any
                    historian's work at such length and in so much detail. The Beardian influence is obvious
                    though it probably has little to do with the major issues of Beard's life as they are so
                    ably discussed by Ellen Nore in this excellent biography.
            Nore captures as much of Charles A. Beard's intellectual side as readers are likely to see
                    in print, at least until that time when some scholar decides to devote an entire academic career to
                    a definitive biography. Indeed, as the author points out in her preface, both Charles and Mary Beard
                    thought that people should write about them based on their published work. To insure that approach
                    Charles Beard destroyed most of his letters shortly before his death in 1948 and noted more than
                    once while he lived that he "did not really approve of biography" because "the
                    lives of individuals … left out too much" (p. xii). Although Nore feels that she has not
                    "really succeeded in calling Beard back in an immediate way," there does not seem
                    to be as much distance between author and subject as she thinks there is.
            From his early years growing up in east central Indiana and his undergraduate days at DePauw, Nore
                    follows Beard's remarkable career, in largely chronological fashion, to 
                        Oxford
                     and 
                        Columbia
                     universities and, following his resignation from the 
                        New York
                     school's faculty in 1917, to his thirty-year career as a "public
                    intellectual," a person whose scholarship was read and discussed far beyond the academic
                    community. At almost every important juncture in this amazing odyssey, Nore carefully analyzes the
                    people and the ideas which influenced Beard and, in turn, the manner in which Beard influenced those
                    around him. In fact, if one were to list the people, academic and nonacademic, who were
                    "significant others" for Charles Beard, the group would be a who-was-who during the years
                    from roughly 1850 to the end of World War II.
            As Nore is careful to note, few of the major political, social, and academic problems that America
                    faced in the first half of the twentieth century escaped Beard's searching inquiry. In fact
                    one difficulty that any of his biographers must face is how much attention  to devote to such topics as reform, war and peace, the university and
                    its relationship to the larger society, academic freedom, political and business leadership,
                    corporate responsibility, and national and regional planning. Nore meets this problem head on and
                    provides her readers with appropriate balance while, at the same time, going out of her way to give
                    Beard's critics equal time.
            Intellectual biography is probably the most difficult type of biography to write since it must focus
                    on life, times, and ideas and must strive to make some sense out of the interplay between all three
                    elements. When one adds to these obvious problems a life as complex as Charles Beard's, one
                    might conclude that there are easier paths to follow. Fortunately, Nore chooses the difficult way.
                    As a result she has researched and written a study that may serve as one kind of model in this
                    genre. In addition, her interpretation is an important addition to recent Beardian scholarship,
                    especially as it relates to the traditional "placement" of Beard as one third of the
                    intellectual trinity which includes V#2 L. Parrington and Frederick J. Turner. Perhaps she may now
                    wish to turn to an equally important subject who richly merits an intellectual biography, Robert
                    Lynd. In fact, Nore handles the relationship between Charles and Mary Beard so well that Robert and
                    Helen Lynd should present no problem whatsoever.
            
               Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        
                Warren Vander Hill
         
         
            
               Dark Horse: A Biography of Wendell Willkie. By Steve Neal. (
                        Garden City
                    , N.Y.: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1984. Pp. ix, 371. Illustrations,
                    bibliographical essay, references, index. $17.95.)
            Wendell Willkie's life forms an incredible tale that is well chronicled in Steve
                    Neal's spirited, engaging biography of the Hoosier-born, Wall Street executive who captured
                    the 1940 Republican nomination for president. As Neal describes him, Willkie was a maverick and free
                    spirit. Among his family in 
                        Elwood
                    , Indiana, and as a student at Indiana University, he was a radical. In later years
                    Willkie reflected: "Any man who is not something of a Socialist before … forty
                    has no heart. Any man who is still a Socialist after … forty has no head" (p. 8). By age
                    forty-one Willkie was president of Commonwealth and Southern, a giant utility holding company.
                    Intellectual ability, a charismatic personality, and luck contributed to his business success and
                    led to his political rise.
            Willkie seemed not to have a chance for victory at the 1940 Republican National Convention. A
                    lifelong Wilsonian Democrat, 
                    
                  WENDELL WILLKIE IN ELWOOD, INDIANA, DURING THE 1940 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
                  
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                he registered as a Republican for the first time in 1939. He was not well known, had a
                    not-so-secret mistress, had never held elective office, and had to defeat such formidable Republican
                    regulars as Robert A. Taft and Thomas A. Dewey. Neal's writing and analysis are at their
                    best in recounting Willkie's triumph over these obstacles in one of the most improbable
                    candidacies in American history.
            The president of Commonwealth and Southern had fought an eight-year battle with the Tennessee Valley
                    Authority that, although ultimately unsuccessful, made him a folk hero among New Deal critics.
                    Still, Willkie would never have been able to snatch the nomination from Taft and Dewey without the
                    Nazi conquest of 
                        France
                     in June, 1940. Among the Republican candidates Willkie alone was an outspoken
                    internationalist, who warned that the 
                        United States
                     had vital interests at stake in the European war. When the convention balloting began
                    on June 27, the Nazi victory had brought many Republicans to Willkie's position. With adept
                    convention strategy by Indiana Congressman Charles A. Halleck and others, the erstwhile Democrat won
                    the right to contest  Franklin D. Roosevelt. In November Willkie
                    carried his home state of Indiana and only nine others. Despite the lopsided electoral vote, the
                    popular vote was much closer.
            A political writer for the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune, Neal has done his homework in several archives, including
                    Willkie's papers at Indiana University's Lilly Library. The author clearly likes
                    Willkie and occasionally lapses into some excesses. For example, he gives Willkie extravagant credit
                    for his role in the 1941 passage of the Lend-Lease Act and the 1943 termination of the unequal
                    treaties with 
                        China
                    . On balance, though, Neal has drawn a dramatic, sensitive, colorful, and honest
                    portrait of Willkie that provides both entertaining and informative reading.
            
               Indiana Central University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                David L. Anderson
         
         
            
               The Welch Airplane Story: Airplanes Designed and Manufactured by Orin Moore
                    Welch. By Drina Welch Abel; edited by Cindy Abel Zeigler and Alan Abel. (
                        Terre Haute
                    , Ind.: Sunshine House, 1983. Pp. xvii, 130. Illustrations, references, figures, table,
                    appendixes. Clothbound, $19.95; paperbound, $13.95.)
            That the life and accomplishments in aviation of Orin Moore Welch are not better known is lamentable
                    indeed. Welch was a self-educated aeronautical engineer and flier who in 1927 began constructing
                    airplanes of his own design in Anderson, Indiana. After four years of experimentation he began
                    production in 
                        Portland
                    , Indiana, of an inexpensive, reliable, and safe cabin monoplane that he hoped would
                    bring personal flying to the masses. The Welch Aircraft Company moved to 
                        South Bend
                     in 1936 and then to Wilkes-Barre, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in 1940. By the time production ceased on the eve of World War II, the family owned
                    and operated firm had delivered fifty of the diminutive planes, a considerable number of which were
                    powered by Welch designed and manufactured engines.
            Drina Welch Abel has written an admiring tribute to her older brother, who was declared missing and
                    presumed dead while flying a C-47 from Chungking to Calcutta in 1943. The book abounds with her
                    personal recollections, newspaper accounts, and information on nearly every Welch airplane. The
                    detailed drawings, photographs, specifications, and registration lists should prove a boon to
                    antique airplane buffs and scale modelers looking for something out of the ordinary.
            The book is, however, going to disappoint the specialist historian. It is amateurish in nearly every
                    respect. Abel has made no attempt to place her brother's career within the historical  context of aviation in the 1920s and
                    1930s—specifically, the concept of the "airplane for everyman," the
                    "Lindbergh boom," and advances in airfoil and engine technology. Basic questions
                    about the Welch company go unanswered. Where, for example, did Welch raise the capital for his firm?
                    Did his designs consciously follow those of such competitors in the light plane business as Aeronca
                    and Taylor Brothers? Why did the company move from Indiana to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ? In style, layout, and printing the book does not come up to expectations. The numerous
                    undated and unidentified newspaper clippings, typographical errors, and poorly reproduced
                    photographs lend a scrapbook character that could easily have been alleviated by more active and
                    skillful editing.
            As a contribution to an understanding of aviation in Indiana and to the history of technology, The Welch Airplane Story is severely deficient. As a loving gift to the memory of
                    a brother who died too young, it is a lasting personal testimonial.
            
               Historical Society of Western 
                     Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh
                  
               
                    William F. Trimble
         
         
            
               Alaskan John G. Brady: Missionary, Businessman, Judge, and Governor,
                        1878–1918. By Ted C. Hinckley. ([
                        Columbus
                    ]: Ohio State University Press, for Miami University, 1982. Pp. xvii, 398.
                    Illustrations, notes, bibliographic sources, index. $40.00.)
            The life of John Green Brady, 
                        Alaska
                    's fourth governor (1897–1906), illustrates the Horatio Alger
                    theme—from the depths of poverty to the pinnacle of success. Son of an Irish immigrant,
                    reared in the wretched slums of Manhattan, a runaway orphan at age eight, Brady was rescued by
                    Theodore Roosevelt, Sr., and sent by the Children's Aid Society to 
                        Tipton
                    , Indiana, where he was adopted by Judge John Green. At age twelve the boy entered
                    public school and made admirable progress. Befriended by a Presbyterian clergyman and sponsored by a
                    presbytery at 
                        Muncie
                    , Brady spent three years at 
                        Waveland
                     Academy in 
                        Montgomery County
                    . In 1870 he entered Yale College, graduated in 1874, and completed his ministerial
                    training in 1877 at Union Theological Seminary in 
                        New York
                    . Brady never forgot his debt to Judge Green, to the schools and friends in Indiana, to
                    Yale and Union.
            Brady was strongly influenced by a prominent Presbyterian official and dedicated missionary, Sheldon 
                        Jackson
                    , who persuaded him to become a pioneer Alaskan missionary. Arriving in Sitka in March,
                    1878, Brady learned the Tlingit language, established a school for the natives, and organized a
                    Presbyterian church for Indians and Creoles of mixed blood. He visited various archipelago tribes,
                    preached against witchcraft and shamanism,  and fought the
                    nefarious liquor dealers. In July, 1884, be became a 
                        United States
                     commissioner and was admitted to the bar in May, 1885. His role as a municipal judge
                    involved issuing warrants for arrest, administering oaths, imprisoning and discharging convicts, and
                    doing his utmost to strengthen the Organic Act of 1884, which Senator Benjamin Harrison of Indiana
                    and 
                        Jackson
                    , who became general agent for education in 
                        Alaska
                     the next year, shepherded through the Congress of the 
                        United States
                    .
            After spending nineteen years as a businessman, staunch advocate of 
                        Alaska
                    's future, commissioner, and judge, Brady was appointed governor by President
                    William McKinley in 1897. It was an ideal choice. Brady knew 
                        Alaska
                    's needs, wrote informative reports and recommendations, traveled extensively,
                    was an excellent speaker in clubs and churches, entertained visitors and officials, and cultivated
                    the friendship of his fellow Hoosier, Senator Albert J. Beveridge of Indiana, whose Committee on
                    Territories aided Alaskan legislation. Governor Brady guided the territory through the crisis years
                    of the Klondike rush and the Nome stampede. Above all, he demonstrated a genuine love for the
                    natives and was sincerely committed to the best interests of 
                        Alaska
                    .
            Ted C. Hinckley has written a superb biography—built solidly on primary
                    sources—of a significant governor whose nine-year term of office was longer than that of
                    any other incumbent except that of Ernest Gruening (1938–1953).
            
               University of Southern 
                     California,
                                Los Angeles
                  
                Leland H.
                Carlson
         
         
            
               The Triumph of Sectionalism: The Transformation of Ohio Politics,
                        1844–1856. By Stephen E. Maizlish. (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1983. Pp. xiv, 310. Map, illustrations, appendixes, tables,
                    historiographic note, notes, bibliography, index. $25.00.)
            Denying that pre-Civil War politics was shaped significantly by ethnocultural issues, Stephen E.
                    Maizlish argues in this study of Ohio politics that sectionalism was indeed responsible for the
                    breakup of the second party system. Economic issues, Maizlish argues, brought about the formation of
                    political parties in 
                        Ohio
                    , but as the Democrats' economic views (notably on banks) proved impractical in
                    an economically maturing state in need of credit sources, their party factionalized along hard
                    money/soft money lines, causing a once unifying issue to became divisive. As party cohesion
                    declined, sectional issues that touched on important concerns for Ohioans, such as free labor and
                    the fear of southern  domination, became important. From 1844,
                    when the Texas annexation issue dominated the presidential campaign, sectionalism shaped politics.
                    By 1848–1849, when Democrats joined the Free Soilers to repeal 
                        Ohio
                    's Black Laws and elect Salmon P. Chase to the Senate, ideological consistency
                    with the past had vanished. The Compromise of 1850 led to voter disgust and apathy, not the
                    diminution of sectional feeling. Apparent voter interest in nativism and temperance resulted from
                    the political vacuum created by party decline. Such issues were too divisive to be significant in
                    the formation of new coalitions. What differentiated the newly emergent political organizations was
                    their orientation to the coming sectional conflict.
            Maizlish's methodology as well as his interpretation is traditional. He relies heavily on
                    the correspondence of state and national politicians supplemented by newspapers from 
                        Ohio
                    's major cities. Although he provides in an appendix an ecological regression
                    analysis (actually prepared by William Gienapp) of the transition in voter support for different
                    parties between 1848 and 1856, it plays a minor role in his analysis. Ethnoculturalists will
                    probably not be persuaded by such evidence. Many of Maizlish's quotations, one might argue,
                    could be equally well interpreted as showing the continued strength, not weakness, of political
                    party identifications in the face of emerging sectional issues. And, in the absence of a systematic
                    analysis of the power structure in 
                        Ohio
                    , it is difficult to judge what weight to give to the opinions expressed. If voters
                    imposed their priorities upon politicians, as Maizlish suggests, one must examine actual voter
                    shifts and not depend on the random and sometimes contradictory comments of politicians concerning
                    public opinion. Maizlish is too ready to build an analysis upon assertion, such as his claim that
                    the continued debate over banking in 1850 (long after he argues it had become irrelevant) was a sign
                    of "ritualistic gestures of respect for the doctrines of a bygone era" (p. 164). One feels
                    that Maizlish appreciates the aspirations of those who wanted to war against the obscenity of
                    slavery but that he has chosen an approach that assumes, rather than convincingly proves, that
                    slavery actually shaped political reality in 
                        Ohio
                    .
            
               Ohio University, 
                            Athens
                        
                Phyllis F. Field
         
         
            
               Free Frank: A Black Pioneer on the Antebellum Frontier. By Juliet E.K. Walker. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1983. Pp. xii, 223. Tables, illustrations, figures, maps, notes, bibliographic note,
                    index. $20.00.)
            Until recently very little scholarship has addressed the involvement of blacks in the development of
                    the American frontier.  Juliet E.K. Walker's biography
                    is about a "relatively obscure historical figure," Free Frank—a black
                    pioneer—and his experiences on the tran-Appalachian frontier (p. 5). Even though the life
                    of Free Frank is the primary subject of the book, Walker argues convincingly that African-American
                    "economic activities, where they existed on the nation's antebellum frontier,
                    contributed to the transformation of the wilderness areas into established communities" (p. 2).
            Born a slave in the 
                        South Carolina
                     piedmont in 1777, Frank [McWorter] died a free man in 1854 in a town he had founded in
                    western 
                        Illinois
                    . In 1795 Free Frank's owner moved to the Pennyroyal region of Kentucky in 
                        Pulaski County
                    . Four years later Frank married Lucy, a slave on a neighboring farm. Like many pioneer
                    slaves, Free Frank learned a number of highly marketable skills that would prove to be invaluably
                    beneficial in both his and his family's quest for freedom. When his owner moved once again
                    to Tennessee in the early years of the nineteenth century, Free Frank was left in charge of the
                    farm. In addition to his farm responsibilities, he established a saltpeter operation during the War
                    of 1812, an enterprise that he maintained until he left 
                        Kentucky
                    . Because Free Frank's activities during the 1800s are well documented, Walker
                    is able to reconstruct the events of this black man's extraordinary life by using oral
                    history interviews, family papers, public documents, and secondary sources. The secondary literature
                    that she consulted is her main source when describing conditions experienced by blacks on the
                    antebellum frontier.
            In 1817, with money saved from commercial endeavors, Frank achieved what was of paramount
                    concern—the purchase of his wife's freedom for eight hundred dollars; two years
                    later he bought his own liberty for the same price. Frank's diverse business activities
                    were always motivated by a strong desire to buy his family's freedom. Over a period of
                    forty years he purchased sixteen family members from slavery.
            Because Free Frank was also involved as a litigant in several court cases, the book adds much to an
                    understanding of the legal practices, as well as the business activities, of the antebellum
                    frontier. The book also reveals much about white settlers' attitudes toward blacks. The
                    author notes that even though "racism was just as pervasive on the new frontier" (p. 91) as
                    it was in the South there were some whites who did interact with blacks. Thus, New
                            
                  Philadelphia, Illinois
               , the town founded in 1836 by Free Frank, developed into a
                    viable biracial town.
            
            This exemplary volume appraises a seriously overlooked but important chapter in American
                    history—the contributions made by African-Americans in developing the nation's
                    antebellum frontier. Those especially interested in black history and frontier history will find
                    Free Frank a useful addition to their collection.
            
               Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Donald West
         
         
            
               A 
                            German
                         in the Yankee Fatherland: The Civil War Letters of Henry A. Kircher. Edited by
                    Earl J. Hess. (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1983. Pp. xi, 169. Illustrations, notes, maps, bibliographical
                    essay, index. $19.50.)
            The collective experiences found in the countless extant Civil War letters and diaries continue to be
                    an invaluable source for understanding that great conflict. Over the years many of these documents
                    have found their way into print. The Civil War letters of Henry A. Kircher, edited by Earl J. Hess,
                    are a welcome addition to this genre in that they present a view of the war through the eyes of an
                    articulate, often witty, nineteen-year-old 
                        German
                    -American from Belleville, 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Kircher was born in 1841, one often children of Joseph and Augusta Kircher, 
                        German
                     natives who migrated to western Illinois in the 1830s. Kircher grew up in a closely
                    knit family and attended Oakfield Academy, near 
                        St. Louis
                    , one of the first 
                        German
                    -American schools west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . He became a machinist by trade and was working in his hometown when the first shock
                    waves of Sumter reached 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Kircher and several of his 
                        German
                     friends first joined the 9th Illinois as three-months recruits, but he quickly became
                    disillusioned by the political infighting that he visualized would be a barrier to his advancement
                    in the regiment. Because of this disillusionment and the antagonism that developed between the
                    Germans and Americans, he and his Belleville neighbors decided to cross the Mississippi and join the
                    newly formed 12th 
                        Missouri
                    , where in time 84 percent of the regiment would be made up of 
                        German
                    -Americans. Kircher, who eventually rose to the rank of captain, and the men of the 12th
                    Missouri took part in several important campaigns during their three years service, including Pea
                    Ridge, Chickasaw Bluffs, the seige of 
                        Vicksburg
                    , and finally Lookout Mountain. Kircher's letters, most of them written to his
                    mother, end abruptly in November, 1863, following the battle of Ringgold, 
                        Georgia
                    , where he received wounds that caused him to lose both an arm and a leg. Following the
                    war Kircher returned home a hero and despite his handicap became one of Belleville's  leading citizens in business and politics, eventually serving
                    two terms as mayor. Kircher was married in 1880 to Bertha Engelmann and had three children. He died
                    on May 1, 1908.
            The sixty-four letters reproduced in the book, transcribed from the old 
                        German
                     script, reveal an intelligent, ambitious, and perceptive young man who saw a duty to
                    serve his fatherland. In doing so he comes of age through the rigors of the battles and the boredom
                    that challenge him during his thirty-one months of campaigning in the war's western
                    theater. Although the letters add little new information to an understanding of the daily life of
                    the Civil War soldier (except perhaps for the period in late 1862 and early 1863 when the regiment
                    served as sharpshooters on Union gunboats during the Yazoo Pass Expedition), as source material they
                    do touch on a historically neglected view of the ethnic soldier in the Union army.
                    "Contrary to popular belief concerning the war as a melting pot, Kircher's letters
                    help suggest that a sense of separateness remained strong throughout the conflict" (Preface). This
                    latter point is the basic theme of the Hess publication.
            Information found in Kircher's diaries helps fill out the gaps in the letters and provides
                    the needed source material for Hess's narrative that serves as a link between each letter.
                    The book is well annotated and contains photographs, maps, and a bibliographical essay. All in all
                    it will be a fine addition to any Civil War library.
            
               Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Thomas K. Krasean
         
         
            
               The Saloon: Public Drinking in 
                            Chicago
                         and 
                            Boston
                        , 1880–1920. By Perry R. Duis. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1983. Pp. 380. Illustrations, maps, comments on primary
                    sources, notes, index. $24.95.)
            This valuable book rests on prodigious research in obscure sources to give a comprehensive view of
                    the saloon in 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Boston
                    . Perry R. Duis mined local newspapers, scattered manuscript sources, and little-known
                    trade publications produced by branches of the liquor industries. The two cities had very different
                    regulatory policies. 
                        Chicago
                     was wide open, with ubiquitous saloons, once reaching a ratio of about one saloon for
                    each 150 persons. 
                        Boston
                     used its licensing powers to limit the number of saloons and restricted them to the
                    city's hub. The result was a different pattern within a common theme.
            The author explains the saloon as a semipublic institution in urban milieus that were increasingly
                    becoming privatized. Saloons were private businesses, sometimes small and sometimes,  in 
                        Chicago
                    , outlets for vertically integrated brewers, which welcomed the public. Saloon customers
                    obtained refuge from the public spaces of the city, there to take comfort, quench thirsts, slake
                    palates, and socialize. As wealth increased, however, Americans sought private
                    spaces—clubs, apartment hotels, suburban homes, and automobiles—for their
                    routine activities, and the semipublic saloon declined, its fate sealed finally by national
                    prohibition in 1919.
            This reviewer finds little fault with Duis's research and his view of space in the evolving
                    city; but the author has not carefully evaluated all his sources, and he misunderstands the recent
                    interpretation of the prohibition movement. Duis observes that the reformers who would outlaw the
                    manufacture and sale of liquor were reacting in a way "that had little to do with the
                    evolution of the liquor industry or drinking patterns" (p. 2). But 
                        Norman
                     Clark and others have shown that the popularity of prohibition grew in response to a
                    growing rate of alcohol consumption even as beer was replacing spirits in the marketplace.
                    Today's rates of consumption, slightly higher than those of Duis's period, elicit
                    widespread concerns about alcohol misuse; the earlier pattern of consumption elicited prohibition.
                    Thus the author misunderstands the dynamics of the saloon, drinking, and reform responses before
                    World War I. To compound the error, Duis sometimes too uncritically accepts evidence and arguments
                    generated by the liquor industries. Self-serving liquor papers, for instance, do not convince this
                    reader that "respectable" women slipped from husbands' watchful eyes to obtain
                    drink in pharmacies and soda fountains (p. 223).
            Nevertheless, Duis advances knowledge of the social history of alcohol. His work promotes a better
                    understanding of the liquor industries, the types of customers and problems encountered, and the
                    varieties of ways in which Americans have used alcohol and responded to its misuse.
            
               The Ohio State University, 
                            Columbus
                        
                K. Austin Kerr
         
         
            
               Theirs Be the Power: The Moguls of Eastern 
                            Kentucky
                        . By Harry M. Caudill. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1983. Pp. vi, 189. Map, illustrations, notes, index.
                    $13.95.)
            Since Harry M. Caudill published Night Comes to the Cumberlands a generation ago,
                    he has not wavered in his indictment of both the corporations that have pillaged his Appalachian
                    homeland and the governments—local, state, and national—that have compounded
                    the problems of the region. In the intervening years  he has
                    contributed numerous articles to the liberal eastern press, written several books, including
                    fiction, and spoken before audiences across the world.
            As is true of most of Caudill's work, some controversy surrounds publication of this book.
                    When the University Press of Kentucky refused to print it, citing a lack of documentation, the
                    University of Illinois Press jumped at the chance to expand their Appalachian studies offerings.
                    Purists of the historian's craft will find the last chapter, as well as much of the
                    remainder of the book, resting on too thin exposition. However, in Caudill's defense it
                    should be remembered that he is first a lawyer and advocate of his region and secondarily a
                    historian.
            In only 164 pages of text Caudill describes the development of "colonialism" in his beloved
                    eastern Kentucky by the "moguls," who represented either the wealth of the British
                    Isles or that of the northeastern 
                        United States
                    . The not-so-famous plunderers included the Scottish-born Alexander Alan Arthur and
                    native Kentuckian John C. C. Mayo. If Arthur could not fulfill his dream of molding Middlesborough
                    into another 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , Mayo's legacy, the broad-form deed, continues to bedevil Kentucky land and
                    mineral policies. Of course, the better-known Belmonts, Rockefellers, and a host of other easterners
                    presided over the dividing of the land from their corporate board rooms. As one would expect,
                    Caudill accuses several generations of Kentucky politicians of being henchmen of the mining and
                    railroad interests. Readers are told that F#2 D. Roosevelt (a traditional hero to liberals) as a
                    young lawyer played a role in the gathering of land for his uncle. More ironically, two of the most
                    liberal of eastern universities, 
                        Harvard
                     and 
                        Princeton
                    , presently hold nearly ten thousand acres of prime Kentucky coal land.
            The author maintains that his is the first book to expose the moguls. It is in the last chapter,
                    "The Modern Moguls," that he strays over the line separating history from
                    polemics, a trend not unusual in today's historical writing. Here his evidence is mostly
                    circumstantial, and he is not averse to laying blame on several prominent Kentucky politicians and
                    corporations. "Eastern Kentucky is a colony owned and managed by absentee
                    landlords," Caudill concludes (p. 151). The boom and bust cycle that has dominated the coal
                    industry offers no promise of a rosy future. "The region's doom is virtually
                    sealed: the insatiable global demands for fuel and chemicals have already determined that" (p. 164).
            The merit of this book ultimately resides in the hands of each reader. Anyone interested in the past,
                    present, or future of Appalachia should read Theirs Be the Power.
            
            
               Eastern Kentucky University, 
                            Richmond
                        
                William E. Ellis
         
         
         
            
               William Jennings Bryan: Missionary Isolationist. By Kendrick A. Clements. (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of Tennessee Press, 1982. Pp. xvi, 214. Tables, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $19.95.)
            In an excellent example of revisionism Professor Kendrick A. Clements has made an important
                    contribution with this book on William Jennings Bryan and foreign policy. Bryan scholars and
                    diplomatic historians will find much of use. Arguing that Bryan's foreign policy record
                    deserves additional study, the author notes that "Bryan's attitudes mirrored those
                    of millions of Americans … as they faced an increasingly unstable and dangerous world"
                    (p. i). Bryan combined an evangelical sense of Christian—and American—mission
                    with a practical idealism that sometimes remained in harmony and sometimes conflicted. As an
                    evangelical Christian and highly ethnocentric American, Bryan believed in America's
                    obligation to "moralize" the world, thus causing him reluctantly to support annexation of
                    the 
                        Philippines
                     and intervention in Latin America. Yet he also evidenced ability to compromise, work
                    with potential foes and allies, and view realistically a world hurrying to war.
            Clements's contribution is enhanced by excellent research and good writing. Certainly the
                    author was exhaustive with his research, and he employs a lively and interesting style. Photographs
                    and charts are a useful addition. There are, however, some minor flaws. Clements overlooks the 1908
                    election while mentioning those before and after. He excuses Bryan's lack of concern with
                    or knowledge of economic imperialism. He may be too lenient with Bryan over relations with 
                        Japan
                    , and, lastly, he may be too forgiving of Bryan's stewardship of the State
                    Department, his staffing the Foreign Service with "deserving" Democrats, and his role in
                    the Sullivan scandal. Perhaps, in performing a useful and necessary revision of Bryan and foreign
                    policy, Clements slightly overstates his case; nonetheless, this book is necessary reading for
                    scholars of the period.
            
               Metropolitan State College, 
                            Denver
                        
                Charles M. Dobbs
         
         
            
               Sport and American Mentality, 1880–1910. By Donald J. Mrozek. (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of Tennessee Press, 1983. Pp. xx, 284. Illustrations, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $24.95; paperbound, $12.95.)
            Although Donald J. Mrozek is a historian with a number of sport history contributions to his credit,
                    readers who are looking for a general history of sport in his new book, Sport and
                        American  Mentality, will be disappointed. The focus of
                    the text is not on the evolution of sport but, rather, on the analysis of the meaning and
                    significance of sport in the 
                        United States
                     in the decades at the turn of the century. Mrozek's selection of the time
                    period for study is, in itself, significant. "Sport remained complex and confusing
                    …," he notes, "but it enjoyed a generally higher moral tone
                    … because of a new interpretation of its utility to society" (p. xiv).
            Chapter headings suggest the essence of the "new interpretation."
                    "Strategies of Regeneration" considers sport in relation to renewal, physical as well as
                    spiritual, suggesting, even, that sport offered a "means to fulfill … the needs
                    that religion had difficulty in meeting" (p. 4). In "Social Efficiency and the Spirit of
                    Victory" the attitudes and ideas about sport held by political leaders such as Theodore Roosevelt
                    and military officers such as Leonard Wood are explored. "Winning and the Regulated Life"
                    speaks to Americans' insatiable interest in sport, the approaches developed to ensure
                    winning teams, and the differing view of sport as espoused by physical educators, coaches, and
                    trainers. The influence of the ultra rich on sporting attitudes is explored in "Sporting
                    Life as Consumption, Fashion, and Display," and chapter five, "From
                    ‘Swooning Damsel’ to Sportswoman," examines the role of sport in
                    women's quest for emancipation as well as the "reciprocal impact that women had on
                    sport" (p. 136). The chapter, "From Playing Fields to National Parks," is perhaps
                    one of Mrozek's best as he attempts to analyze sport in relation to a developing concern
                    for and interest in American nationalism. The increasing interest in sport as a means of achieving
                    health is examined in a chapter aptly titled "Toward a New Image of the Body."
            In spite of Mrozek's "wizardry with words" (one suspects at times that he has even
                    coined new words), he has accomplished a task that few authors on the topic of sport have attempted;
                    that is, an effort to analyze the meaning and significance of sport in the lives of Americans. While
                    he does consider the role of women in his analysis, the role of blacks is conspicuously absent from
                    the treatise. As he noted with regard to another topic, however, that may be another story. And,
                    while one may or may not agree with his conclusions about sport and American mentality, he must be
                    given credit for examining sport in American life from a different perspective during one short time
                    period. As Mrozek concludes, "The complex and sometimes countervailing forces within sport
                    militate against explanation. Yet … they suggest the importance of sport as a part of the
                    ongoing cultural development of America" (p. 234). His efforts to provide insight into the sport
                    phenomenon as a part of that culture are commendable.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Mary L. Remley
         
         
         
            
               Generations: An American Family. By John Egerton. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1983. Pp. 263. End maps, illustrations. $19.50.)
            In recent years the familiar genre of autobiography has merged with the subject of family history and
                    the technique of oral history to produce such notable books as Alex Haley's Roots (1976)
                    and Theodore Rosengarten's All God's Dangers (1974). Joining
                    that select company of vivid historical portraits is Generations, an important
                    achievement in social history, human memory, and narrative power. John Egerton set out to locate and
                    portray a representative middle-class family whose collective biography might be "a
                    metaphor of America" (p. 15). Patience and persistence were amply rewarded when he discovered
                    centenarian Burnam Ledford and his wife Addie of 
                  Lancaster, Kentucky
               . During
                    the next six years he probed and reconstructed seven generations of this "quintessentially
                    American" family (p. 4). He studied courthouse records and cemetery gravestones. He explored various
                    family sites. Most of all he talked and listened. Burnam and Addie narrated extensive oral histories
                    of their seventy-five-year marriage, their forebears, and their progeny. One hundred hours of
                    recorded interviews enabled Egerton to prepare a family biography spanning the national history of
                    the 
                        United States
                    .
            To epitomize mainstream America with one family is an effective literary device but a preposterous
                    gesture of population sampling. Egerton actually offers not so much a microscopic glimpse of all
                    America as a prismatic view of one layer.
            
               Generations contains some remarkable insights and revelations. There is the
                    familiar theme of continuity and change. There also are the centrifugal and centripetal forces
                    operating on successive generations. Dispersing the family socially and geographically are such
                    influences as marriage and career mobility. Drawing them together are such equally powerful magnets
                    as their Kentucky homestead, the state university, and family reunions. Literally and figuratively
                    at center stage in this family drama are Burnam and Addie. Their memories and sense of history
                    bridge the distant past and the present. Born in 1876, Burnam could reflect sadly on the death of
                    President John F. Kennedy by personally recalling the assassinations not only of William McKinley
                    but even of James A. Garfield. Burnam's memory proved remarkably consistent, detailed, and
                    accurate, making him a reliable oral chronicler of his time.
            Burnam Ledford carried a century of historical experience in his head. His death in 1983 obliterated
                    that personal link with a deep and distinctive slice of the American past. Thanks to
                    Egerton's  luck in finding the Ledfords, perseverance
                    in studying them, and skill in narrating their seven-generation story, readers have an absorbing and
                    illuminating family history.
            
               Sangamon State University, 
                            Springfield
                        , Ill. Cullom Davis
         
         
            
               Their Number Become Thinned: Native American Population Dynamics in Eastern North
                        America. By Henry F. Dobyns; including an essay with William R. Swagerty as coauthor. (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of Tennessee Press, in cooperation with the Newberry Library Center for the
                    History of the American Indian, 1983. Pp. 378. Notes, tables, maps, figures, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            In Their Number Become Thinned Henry F. Dobyns attempts to identify the
                    "major dynamics of population trends" for native North America and to analyze, as an
                    "illustrative" example, the demographic history of the Timucuan chiefdoms of 
                        Florida
                     (p. 4). Dobyns's theme is the depopulation of native North America by exotic
                    diseases to which Indian peoples had no immunity. His account of the impact of these epidemics is
                    not only lucid it is also suggestive in its examination of the relationship between demographic and
                    social change.
            The meat of this book, however, and the part sure to inspire controversy, is Dobyns's
                    attempt to establish the original size of the populations these diseases ravaged. He initially
                    calculates a figure of eighteen million people for the North American continent, but his most
                    original work is done in the case study of the Timucuans. Dobyns proceeds methodically. First he
                    assesses the carrying capacity of the land at a given level of technology. He then turns to
                    estimates made by Europeans of warrior strength, village size, and the number of people living in
                    each house. On the basis of his data he makes several estimates of population in the mid-sixteenth
                    century. Finally, Dobyns determines what epidemics had already swept over the Timucuans by this date
                    and uses the death rates such epidemics had inflicted elsewhere to calculate backwards to
                    pre-epidemic populations. He suggests that 722,000 people lived in the Timucuan chiefdoms in 1517.
                    The highest current estimate is 20,000. Such figures suggest the boldness of Dobyns's
                    revisionism.
            This book is a major work of scholarship, one that is both methodical and ingenious, but its large
                    conclusions often flow from sparse evidence. To share Dobyns's conclusions readers will
                    have to share his assumptions. Dobyns, for instance, works from the basic Malthusian premise of
                    cultural materialism: population  will inevitably increase to
                    the limits of subsistence. Not all scholars would agree that this has been demonstrated, nor will
                    all be convinced by more specific uses of evidence. Paintings of dubious ethnographic validity and
                    estimates of field size by passing Spanish marauders are translated into caloric yields from hunting
                    and agriculture. A rough numerical parity between chiefdoms and between villages within chiefdoms is
                    assumed so that one estimate of warrior strength or village size is applied to other groups for whom
                    no data exist. Here Dobyns is struggling with lack of evidence, but in his discussion of soil
                    fertility and Indian agriculture he often proceeds with little reference to available scientific
                    research. Finally, in his calculations he sometimes writes as if epidemics produced identical death
                    rates regardless of social conditions. These and similar issues will almost certainly make this book
                    the center of a fruitful and significant scholarly controversy.
            
               University of 
                            Utah
                        , Salt Lake City Richard White
         
         
            Book Reviewers
            Readers interested in having their names added to the list of potential book reviewers for the Indiana Magazine of History are invited to infom the editor. The prospective
                    reviewer should enclose a 4 x 6 card indicating name, address, and specific area and topics of
                    competence and interest. Additional information that might be provided, if relevant, includes degree
                    granting institution, current academic or professional affiliation, and publications.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Hoosier Hysteria! Indiana High School Basketball. By Bob Williams. (
                        South Bend
                    : Icarus Press, 1982. Pp. xi, 333. Illustrations, charts, appendixes, index. Clothbound,
                    $18.85; paperbound, $13.60.) One of Indiana's veteran sportswriters
                    has attempted in this book to portray the excitement and tradition of Indiana high school boys
                    basketball. The book has four sections, dealing with the perennial contenders, the stars, the
                    coaches, and the "Cinderella" teams. Williams recounts the major stories: from 
                        Franklin
                    's "Wonder Five" of the early 1920s, through the Crispus Attucks years
                    of Oscar Robertson, to the recent past of George McGinnis and Larry Bird. There is, of course, a
                    chapter devoted to the Milan "Miracle" of 1954, perhaps the most enduring and oft-told tale
                    in all of Indiana basketball. Enthusiasts will be reminded of events and players they once saw or
                    read about. In this and other ways Williams's book is entertaining and useful, but it is
                    not the full history of Indiana basketball that so needs to be written, the history that will set
                    the sport in the full context of twentieth-century social change and continuity. James
                        H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               An Introduction to the Prehistory of Indiana. Second edition. By James H. Kellar. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1983. Pp. 78. Notes, illustrations, appendixes,
                    bibliography. Booklet, $2.00.) This is the second edition of a well-received introduction
                    to Indiana prehistory first published in 1973. The new edition updates the contents to take into
                    account continuing work in the field. In addition to a general overview of Indiana archaeology and
                    prehistory, James H. Kellar provides several appendixes and a bibliography that will help those
                    interested in further pursuit of the subject. Good illustrations and a well-written text help make
                    the material accessible. Here the reader can begin to understand some of the richness of the
                    American Indian past and perhaps also develop a sense of the importance of the physical remains of
                    that past that still exist in Indiana. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Swedes in 
                            Wisconsin
                        . By Frederick Hale. (
                        Madison
                    : State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1983. Pp. 32. Illustrations, map, bibliography. Booklet, $2.00.) Designed
                    to describe Swedish immigration to 
                        Wisconsin
                    , this short work is one of a series of historical 
                    sketches concerning ethnic groups published in booklet form by the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Included are discussions on causes of emigration from 
                        Sweden
                     and of immigration to the 
                        United States
                     and on the economic, religious, political, and social life of Swedes in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Gregory M. Stone, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
         
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS IN HISTORY
            Two Grants of $3,500 each for the 1985–1986 Academic Year
            Purpose: To encourage research which will contribute to an understanding of the history of Indiana or
                    of Indiana and the region of which it is traditionally a part, the Old Northwest and Midwest.
            Eligibility: Applicants must be enrolled in a program in an accredited institution and have completed
                    all course work and met all requirements for the doctoral degree except the research and writing of
                    the dissertation. The dissertation subject must reflect the purpose of the grant and be approved by
                    the graduate committee of the institution.
            Application: Application forms may be obtained from the office of the Indiana Historical Society at
                    the address given below. Applicants must provide three letters of recommendations including one from
                    the chairman of the applicant's major department and one from the dissertation director.
                    Documents required in support are a transcript of graduate credits and a dissertation prospectus.
            Awards: Winners will receive grants of $3,500 to be used for expenses connect with their
                    dissertations. One half of the grant ($1,750) will be paid September 1, 1985; one fourth
                    ($875), December 1, 1985; and one fourth upon acceptance of the completed dissertation by
                    the graduate committee.
            Deadlines:
                  
                     For receipt of applications
                     March 15, 1985
                  
                  
                     Announcements of awards
                     May 15, 1985
                  
                For further information and application forms write:
            Peter T. Harstad
            Executive Secretary
            Indiana Historical Society
            315 West Ohio Street
            Indianapolis, Indiana 46202
            
                    Applications due by March 15, 1985
                
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
