
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 14, Issue 1, pages 3-96. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:14+issue:1+year:1918&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Topenebee and the Decline of the Pottawattomie Nation
            By ELMORE BARCE, Fowler, Indiana
            About three miles southwest of the town of Earl Park, in 
                        Benton county
                    , Indiana, there is a section of land, known by way of legal description as section 31,
                    in township 26 north, range 9 west, but otherwise known as "Sumner's Indian
                    Float," and this section was at one time set apart by treaty to the renowned Topenebee, who
                    for forty years, was the principal chief and sachem of the Pottawattomie tribe of Indians.
            The grand prairies west of the 
                        Wabash
                    , comprising all of what is now 
                        Benton county
                     and the greater portion of 
                        Warren
                    , were really a part of those vast savannas of wild grass-land, interspersed with
                    blackrush sloughs, willow-lined creeks, and pleasant groves of mixed timber, which extended as far
                    west as the Illinois river, and which, up to about the year 1790, were grazed
                    by herds of the American bison. About that time 
                        A big snow, about five feet deep, fell, and froze so bard on the top that the people walked
                            on it, causing the buffalo to perish by starvation. Next spring a few buffalo, poor and
                            haggard in appearance, were seen going westward, and as they approached the carcasses of
                            dead ones, which were lying here and there upon the prairie, they would stop, commence
                            pawing and lowing, then start off again in a lope for the west. Forty years ago (i. e.,
                            forty years prior to 1878) buffalo bones were found in large quantities on the prairies; in
                            some places, many acres were covered with them, showing where a large herd had perished, and
                            their trails leading to and from watering places, were plainly to be seen.1
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  1
                        Memories of Shaubena, by N. Matson. 
                            Chicago
                        , 1878.
            
            
            Early settlers were familiar with great depressions and hollows in the prairie, known as buffalo
                    wallows, and these were the last traces discernible of the giant herds.
            Notwithstanding the departure of the buffalo, these great plains still held forth allurement for
                    savage huntsmen. The pleasant groves were ofttimes situated on the margin of sparkling streams, or
                    were blessed with springs of cool water; wild berries and nuts abounded in the wild woods; the rich
                    alluvium of sunny slopes yielded a bountiful harvest of yellow maize; and the wilderness of grass,
                    the banks of the creeks and the groves themselves, were threaded with numberless paths made by the
                    feet of the timid deer. In fall and springtime great flocks of Canadian geese and wild ducks filled
                    every pond and depression, wild turkeys were abundant, and the great flights of wild pigeons were at
                    times so thick as partly to obscure the sun.
            The beauty and grandeur of these great level stretches of prairie, studded with groves, was
                    incomparable. Standing on the hills to the west of Parish Grove, in 
                        Benton county
                    , one could not only view the whole of the slope that extended for miles to the south
                    and west, but could look over into the plains of the 
                        Illinois
                    . To the north and east lay Hickory Grove, with a small lake to the south of it; to the
                    north and west the prairies again, and the slopes of Blue Ridge, twelve miles away, so named because
                    the dews of the morning made the prairies appear like a sea of blue. In the
                    autumn, the giant blue-stem, growing so high that horsemen could tie the tops together above their
                    heads, filled the whole plains as far as the eye could see.2
            
            This was the land of the Pottawattomies. In 1640 the Jesuit Relation records that
                    they were the neighbors of the Winnebagos in the far north. In 1670, a portion of them were on the
                    islands in the mouth of Green Bay. They were then moving southward. Friendly with the Kickapoos,
                    with whom they afterwards lived in mixed villages on the prairies west of 
                        Lafayette
                    , they seemed to have joined with that tribe and the Sacs and Foxes in wiping out the
                    last remnants of the old 
                  
                     2 J. Wesley Whicker, Sketches of the Wabash
                                    Valley
                     , published by Attica Ledger, 1916, p.
                        108.
               
                    
                    
                        Illinois
                     Indians,3 and the three conquering tribes then divided the country
                    between them; the Kickapoos taking the territory along the Vermillion river,
                    the Pottawattomies the domain in eastern and northern 
                        Illinois
                     and northwestern Indiana north of the Wabash river, while the Sacs
                    and Foxes went further to the west. In approaching the 
                        Wabash
                    , the Pottawattomies became trespassers upon the lands of the Miamis, but that tribe
                    never seems to have been able to prevent their encroachments.
            
                    By other tribes the Pottawattomies were called "squatters," charged with never
                        having had any lands of their own, and being mere intruders upon the prior estates of others.
                        They were foremost at all treaties where lands were to be ceded, clamoring for a lion's
                        share of the presents and annuities, particularly where the last were the price paid for the
                        sale of others' lands, rather than their own.4
               
                
            At the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1809, the resentment of the Miamis at the unlawful claims of this tribe to the
                    territory watered by the 
                        Wabash
                     and its tributaries, was one of the principal obstacles to be met and overcome by
                    General Harrison.5
            
            The following account was given by Joseph Barron, interpreter to General Harrison, to Prof. W. H.
                    Keating, of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana, in 1824, as to the origin and meaning of the word
                    "Pottawattomie": 
                        A Miami, having wandered out from his cabin, met three Indians, whose language was
                            unintelligible to him; by signs and motions he invited them to follow him to his cabin,
                            where they were hospitably entertained, and where they remained until dark. During the
                            night, two of the strange Indians stole out of the hut, while their comrade and the host
                            were asleep. They took a few embers from the cabin, and placing these near the door of the
                            hut, they made a fire, which, being afterwards seen by the 
                                Miami
                             and his remaining guests, was understood to imply a council-fire between the
                            two nations. From this circumstance the Miami called them, in his own language, Wa-ho-na-ha,
                            or firemakers, which, being translated into the other language, produced the term by which
                            the Pottawattomies have ever since been distinguished, and the pronounciation of which,
                            spoken by themselves, is Po-ta-wa-to-me, in their language, "we are making a
                                fire."6
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  3
                        Fergus Historical Series, IV, No. 27, p. 174.
               
                  4
                        Fergus Historical Series, IV, No. 27, p. 174.
               
                  5
                        Indiana Magazine of History, 1915, pp. 366–367.
               
                  6
                        Fergus Historical Series, IV, No. 27, p. 164.
            
            
            The characteristics of these savages, who have left behind them so many names of groves, towns and
                    streams, in northern Indiana and western 
                        Illinois
                    , may be described in part as follows: They seem to have lived in separate roving bands,
                    which separated or divided, "according to the abundance or scarcity of game, or the
                    emergencies of war." They loved the remoteness and seclusion of the great prairies, from
                    which they emerged at frequent intervals in Tecumseh's day to make raids on the white
                    settlements in southern Indiana and in 
                        Illinois
                    , burning the cabin of the settler, tomahawking his family, and stealing his horses.
                    Pursuit, if not made immediately, was futile. Traveling by day and night, the murderous bands were
                    lost in the great wilderness of the north, and the Prophet was a sure protector. The savage chief, 
                        Turkey
                     Foot, for whom two groves have been named in 
                        Benton
                     and 
                        Newton
                     counties, stealing horses in far away 
                        Missouri
                    , murdered three or four of his pursuers, and escaped to the great prairies between the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Lake Michigan
                    .7 He was never taken. The cowardly and brutal massacre at 
                        Chicago
                    , August 15, 1812, was the work, principally, of the Pottawattomies, "and their
                    several bands from the 
                        Illinois
                     and Kankakee rivers; those from the 
                        St. Joseph
                     of the 
                        Lake
                    , and the 
                        St. Joseph
                     of the Maumee, and those of the 
                        Wabash
                     and its tributaries were all represented in the despicable act."8
            
            Unlike the Kickapoos, who were tall and sinewy, and more cleanly in their habits, the Pottawattomies
                    were shorter and more thickly set, very dark, and squalid in appearance, and were given the
                    significent name by the French-Canadians of "Les Poux," or those who have lice.9 Their language was of the rough, gutteral variety,10 they
                    used huge quantities of fire water, and were inveterate gamblers. Of all the tribes of the
                    northwest, none were more treacherous, or prone to break a treaty, and none were more under the
                    influence of Tecumseh and the Prophet and the British agents at Maiden.
            For nearly half a century, Topenebee, whose name, according to Jacob Piatt Dunn, signifies
                    "A Quiet Sitting Bear," was 
                  
                     7
                            Dawson's Harrison, 176–177.
                  
                     8
                            Fergus Historical Series, IV, No. 27, p. 173.
                  
                     9
                            Wau-Bun, the Early Day in the Northwest, Mrs. J. H. Kinzie, 
                                Chicago
                            , 1855.
                  
                     10
                            Fergus Historical Series, IV, No. 27, p. 136.
               
                     their head and principal chief. He was probably born near
                            
                  Niles, Michigan
               , on the upper bend of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     of the Lakes, for here there was located "the great Pottawattomie village,
                    ruled over by Aniquiba, the great chief of the Potta-wattomies,"11 who
                    was the father of Topenebee. Topenebee was thus of the royal blood, and the ruling clan of his
                    tribe. His sister, Kaukeama,12 married William Burnett, a famous French fur
                    trader, who thereafter became very influential and powerful among the tribesmen. His sons, by this
                    Indian princess, were unfriendly to the advancing white settlements of the West, and Abraham
                    Burnett, in command of a mixed band of Pottawattomies and Kickapoos, is said to have laid a plan to
                    ambush and surprise Harrison's army near Perryville, Indiana, on its march to the
                    battleground at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .13 This plot, however, failed.
            From the first, Topenebee seems to have been hostile to the 
                        United States
                    . He was no doubt in the battle of Fallen Timbers, fought with Anthony Wayne, in 1794,
                    for he appears as a signer of the Treaty of 
                  Greenville, Ohio
               , of August 3,
                    1795, signing that document as "Thu-Pe-Ne-Bu,"14 and the fact
                    that he signed as the first of the "Putawatames of the River St.
                    Joseph," shows that at that early date he was their chief and principal sachem.
                    At an early date, Topenebee embraced the teachings of the Prophet, and became an ally of the Shawnee
                    brothers and the British. When Tecumseh and the Prophet came to the 
                        Wabash
                     in the year 1808, for the purpose of organizing their Confederacy of Indian Tribes to
                    oppose the further advance of the new Republic, they settled at the mouth of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     on certain lands granted them by the Pottawattomies and Kickapoos, although this grant
                    was opposed by the Miamis, who were the rightful occupants and owners of the soil. In the
                    negotiations leading up to this transaction, Topenebee took an active part. Local tradition at 
                        Attica
                    , Indiana, preserves the tale that 
                        Sometime in the Fall of the year 1807, Topenebee and the Kickapoos and Pottawattomies, Miamis
                            and Winnebagos, met Tecumseh and his prophet beneath the spreading branches of a splendid
                            oak that stood within 
                        
                           11
                                    
                              
                                            Michigan
                                         Pioneer and Historical Recollections, XXX, 88.
                        
                           12
                                    
                              
                                            United States
                                         Statutes at Large, Indian Treaties. 298.
                        
                           13
                                    Sketches of the Wabash Valley
                           , p. 11.
                        
                           14
                                    
                              
                                            United States
                                         Statutes at Large. Indian Treaties. 54.
                     
                             the corporate limits of the city of 
                                Attica
                            . In this council it was agreed that the Shawnee tribe, under Tecumseh and his
                            brother, the Prophet, might have as their hunting ground the territory drained by Shawnee
                            creek, and then a line drawn from there to the watershed of the Tippecanoe
                            river, and up the Tippecanoe river about twenty miles.15
                  
                    
                
            The Pottawattomie chief was thus largely instrumental in bringing the impending conflict closer to
                    the 
                        Vincennes
                     settlement, and in hastening incidentally the downfall of his own people. Neither is
                    there any doubt that during the troublesome period preceding the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and until after the War of 1812, that Topenebee and all the leading chiefs of his tribe
                    were in close communication with the British agent, Matthew Elliott, at Maiden. According to Mrs.
                    Kinzie: 
                        The principal men of the Pottawattomie nation, like those of most other tribes, went yearly
                            to Fort Maiden, in 
                                Canada
                            , to receive a large amount of presents, with which the British government, had,
                            for many years, been in the habit of purchasing their alliance.16 The
                            presents they thus received were of considerable value, consisting of blankets, broadcloths
                            or strouding, calicoes, guns, kettles, traps, silver-works (comprising arm-bands, bracelets,
                            brooches and ear bobs), looking glasses, combs, and various other trinkets distributed with
                            no niggardly hand.17
                  
                    
                
            These and a vast quantity of whiskey, won them away from General Harrison and made them British
                    allies in the War of 1812.
            Topenebee, if he did not actually take part in laying the plot, was fully aware of the impending
                    massacre of the troops of Ft. Dearborn, on August 15, 1812. This is shown by the fact that, 
                        Early in the morning Mr. Kinzie (the trader located at the old post), received a message from
                            To-pen-nee-bee, a chief of the 
                                St. Joseph
                            's band, informing him that mischief was intended by the
                            Pottawattomies, who had engaged to escort the detachment; and urging him to relinquish his
                            designs of accompanying the troops by land, promising him that the boat containing himself
                            and family should be permitted to pass in safety to 
                                St. Joseph
                            's.18
                  
                    
                
            Bearing in mind the close relations between the British and the Pottawattomie chiefs, the fact that
                    this warning was 
                  
                     15
                            Sketches of the Wabash Valley. 18.
                  
                     16
                            Wau-Bun, the Early Day in the Northwest, p. 204.
                  
                     17
                            Wau-Bun, 21.
                  
                     18
                            Wau-Bun, 222.
               
                     sent to a personal friend, and the further fact that
                    Pottawattomies from the St. Joseph river were present at the slaughter, the
                    evidence is rather strong that Topenebee was the leader in the whole affair from the beginning.
            After the crushing of the Prophet in 1811, and the destruction of British influence in the northwest,
                    consequent upon the War of 1812, the decline of the Pottawattomies was swift and appalling. The
                    terrible ravages of firewater played no inconsiderable part. Many of their principal chieftains
                    became notorious drunkards, reeling along the streets of frontier posts and towns and boasting of
                    their former prowess. Topenebee was no exception. Reproached by Gen. Lewis Cass, because he did not
                    remain sober and care for his people, he answered: "Father, we do not care for the land,
                    nor the money, nor the goods, what we want is whiskey, give us whiskey!"19
            
            Without leadership, without any intelligent plan of cooperation with his fellows, a prey to savage
                    appetites and propensities, and without the nowledge or inclination to utilize his land, except to
                    hunt thereon to relieve his immediate and pressing wants, the Pottawattomie became a wanderer and a
                    beggar in his own country, roving here and there in quest of game, or falling into the hands of
                    unscrupulous traders, who robbed him of his peltries and possessions for a pint of rum. To withstand
                    the advancing tide of white immigration was impossible. Says Logan Esarey: 
                        No description can give an accurate impression of the sattlement of Indiana. One who has
                            watched the rising waters of a flood overflow the land will appreciate the overflow of the
                            State by the swelling tide of immigration. By 1825 the settlers were entering the northern
                            half of the state.20
                  
                    
                
            Already, on October 2, 1818,21 there had been consummated at St. Mary's, 
                        Ohio
                    , a treaty between the Pottawattomie nation and Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass and
                    Benjamin Parke, whereby said nation ceded to the 
                        United States
                    , "A large tract of country lying in central-western Indiana and eastern 
                        Illinois
                    , fronting on the 
                        Wabash
                     from the mouth of the 
                  
                     19
                            
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer and Historical Recollections. XIV, 260.
                  
                     20
                            History of Indiana, Logan Esarey, 273.
                  
                     21
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large. Indian Treaties. 185.
               
                    
                    
                        Tippecanoe
                     to the mouth of the 
                        Vermillion
                    , and extending westward to a line drawn as nearly parallel with the 
                        Wabash
                     as practicable, so as to strike the two latter streams twenty-five miles from their
                    respective confluence with the 
                        Wabash
                    ; and now embraced in parts of 
                  Tippecanoe, White, Benton
               , all of 
                        Warren
                    , the north half of 
                        Vermillion counties
                    , Indiana, and the greater portion of 
                        Vermillion county
                    , in 
                        Illinois
                    ."22
            
            A few years later this cession was to be occupied by herdsmen and great droves of cattle, and the
                    famous 
                        Chicago
                     road was to run through the northern stretches of this area from the towns on the 
                        Wabash
                     to the growing town around old Ft. Dearborn.
            This was but the beginning of the retirement. On October 16, 1826,23 there was
                    concluded at the mouth of the Mississinewa, between the Pottawattomies and Lewis Cass, James B. Ray,
                    and John Tipton, a treaty whereby the tribe released all claim to valuable tracts of land north and
                    west of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , along Eel river, and about 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . This was followed by the treaty of September 20, 1828, granting a great tract in
                    northeastern Indiana, and the final treaty on the Tippecanoe river, on October
                    27, 1832,24 concluded between the Pottawattomies and Jonathan Jennings, John W.
                    Davis, and Marks Crume, commissioners, wherein "the chiefs and warriors aforesaid cede to
                    the 
                        United States
                    , their title and interest to lands in the States of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , and the territory of 
                        Michigan
                    , south of Grand River."
            Thus, from the year 1818, to the year 1832, a short space of only fourteen years, the Pottawattomie
                    nation had lost practically all of its valuable holdings and claims in northern Indiana and southern 
                        Michigan
                    , and the tribe had sunk into a terrible decadence from which it was never to recover.
            In all these treaties Topenebee had signed as chief sachem of his tribe, but in 1832, old, drunken
                    and decrepit, he had fallen from his high estate as the associate of Tucemseh, and the lordly
                    commander who had led all the bands north of the 
                        Wabash
                    , until there was reserved for him out of all the vast prairies and woodlands of
                    northern Indiana, but one section of 
                  
                     22
                            Fergus Historical Series. IV, No. 27. Note, pp. 179–180.
                  
                     23
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large. Indian Treaties. 295–297.
                  
                     24
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large. Indian Treaties. 399–403.
               
                     land—the exact language of the Treaty of 1832 was:
                    "To To-pen-ne-bee, principal chief, one section."25 This
                    section was to be selected under the direction of the President of the 
                        United States
                    .
            The section of land thus reserved for Topenebee proved to be of no benefit either to himself or his
                    descendants. Under authority of the President, one J. T. Douglass, on January 20, 1836, reported to
                    the government that he had selected section 31, in township 26 north, range 9 west, as
                    Topenebee's land. This selection was confirmed by President Martin Van Buren, on March 29,
                        1837.26 The section thus selected was ideally located to suit a prairie
                    Indian. From a memorandum attached to an old deed discovered in the archives of the 
                        Benton
                     circuit court, this section, or Indian Float, was described as being at Sugar Grove, in 
                        Benton county
                    , seven miles north of Parish Grove, and thirteen miles south of Iroquois, or Bunkum, on
                    the 
                        Chicago
                     road from 
                  Williamsport, Warren county
               , to 
                        Chicago
                    . The west side of the section was in the eastern verge of Sugar Grove, and the entire
                    eastern side was a prairie of Blue-stem, watered on the northern side by Sugar creek, which extended
                    on west through the Grove into the State of 
                        Illinois
                    . From the viewpoint of the early cattle men, it was just the location adapted for an
                    ideal ranch. The timber afforded fuel, and also protected the herds in winter; the creek afforded an
                    abundant supply of fresh water, and the surrounding prairie was an ideal grazing ground. Edward C.
                    Sumner, the greatest cattle man north of the Wabash river, riding over the old 
                        Chicago
                     road, about 1834, immediately perceived its advantages, and afterards built a ranch on
                    its western side and along the banks of the creek.
            Long before the section was located by Douglass, however, Topenebee had parted with all his title to
                    Alexis Coquillard. The treaty was made, as has been shown, on the 27th day of October, 1832. On
                    November 27 of the same year, Topenebee, by a deed executed in 
                        St. Joseph county
                    , Indiana, did 
                        
                     
                                Grant
                            , bargain, sell, convey and confirm unto the said Alexis Coquillard and David H.
                            Colerick, and their heirs and assigns forever, all that section 
                        
                           25
                                    
                              
                                            United States
                                         Statutes at Large, Indian Treaties, 400.
                        
                           26
                                    Final Court Record No. 1, page 284, Clerk's Office, 
                                        Benton
                                     Circuit Court. See also, Verden vs. Coleman, 4 Ind. 457.
                     
                             of land called a floating reserve, made to the said
                            To-pe-ne-bee at the Treaty of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            , made and concluded by and between the chiefs of the Pottawattomie nation, and 
                                Jennings
                            , Crume and Davis, commissioners.
                    
                
            The consideration named in the deed was eight hundred dollars, or one dollar and twenty-five cents
                    per acre, and this deed was placed on record in 
                        Benton county
                     on July 17, 1846.27
            
            In Judge Timothy E. Howard's History of 
                            St. Joseph county
                        
               , Alexis Coquillard is named as the founder of 
                        South Bend
                    . He was of French descent and had served in the War of 1812 in the American Army under
                    General Harrison, although but seventeen years of age. He later became a trader on the St.
                        Joseph river and wielded such an influence over the Pottawattomie tribe that they
                    would have made him their chief, if he had not prevented it.28 He is mentioned
                    by Logan Esarey as one of the traders who were present at the payment of annuities to the Indians,
                    and at the various treaties made with the tribes. He was undoubtedly present at the treaty of
                    October 27, 1832, for by the terms of that instrument he was paid five thousand one hundred dollars,
                    due him for debts incurred by the Indian tribes.29 Let us hope that he took no
                    advantage of the aged and besotted chieftain of the Pottawattomie tribe. On October 7, 1846, Alexis
                    Coquillard and his wife, Frances, conveyed this section to Edward C. Sumner for the consideration of
                    twelve hundred dollars.30
            
            Thus passed away the last dominion that Topenebee ever exerted over the prairies, which, in his
                    youth, he had been so familiar with. Six years after the treaty of 1832, his tribe passed beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                     and old, feeble and broken, he retired to southern 
                        Michigan
                    , where in August, 1840,31 to use the melodious language of J.
                    Wesley Whicker, "he passed from among the inhabitants of earth and took his trackless way
                    alone to the Happy Hunting Ground."32
            
            
               
                  27
                        Deed Record No. 1, page 214, of 
                            Benton county
                        , Indiana. Recorder's Office.
               
                  28
                        History of 
                                St. Joseph county
                            , Indiana. Timothy E. Howard, 1907, p. 132.
               
                  29
                        
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes at Large. Indian Treaties, 403.
               
                  30
                        Deed Record No. 1, page 323, Recorder's Office, 
                            Benton county
                        , Indiana.
               
                  31
                        Bureau of American Ethnology. Handbook of American Indians. Part II. 785.
               
                  32
                        Sketches of the Wabash Valley. 18.
            
         
         
         
            Lincoln In Indiana (Continued)
            By J. EDWARD MURR
            
            LINCOLN
                    A HOOSIER
            
            
                    "I am not afraid to die, and would be more than willing, but I have an irrepressible
                        desire to live till I can be assured that the world is a little better for my having lived in
                        it."
                
            Although Mr. Lincoln was born in 
                        Kentucky
                    , it is not possible by any proper method rightly to classify him as a Kentuckian in the
                    sense that he stood forth as typical and representative of the citizenship of that great State. The
                    extreme poverty of his parents, together with their utter lack of social standing with that dominant
                    class usually regarded both in 
                        Kentucky
                     as well as by those without as possessing those distinguishing traits that
                    differentiated them from citizens of other States, makes any attempt to exalt one of
                    Lincoln's class as typical or representative in any way of 
                        Kentucky
                    , but little short of preposterous.
            
               
                        Kentucky
                    , as has been stated, has not only produced many great sons, but has been especially
                    fortunate in adopting others. It may be said to her credit that she has been quite as kind to the
                    one as to the other, but the class whom she has delighted to honor has not been that one to which
                    Lincoln belonged. 
                        Henry
                        Clay
                    , an adopted son, was more nearly representative of the genuine Kentuckian in the
                    estimation of Kentuckians themselves, and certainly by those without the State, than any whom 
                        Kentucky
                     has ever produced.
            It it be true that in him were to be found those distinguishing traits more prominently than in
                    others—traits which historians and writers generally have regarded as peculiarly
                    differentiating—then it may be said that there are discerned  even today among the class to which he belonged these same marked
                    traits; and being generally true as it is of her citizens, and so much so as to justify the pride
                    they have in such a heritage, it would appear that but for the unprecedented fame of Lincoln there
                    would have been great hesitancy to classify him as one of their number in view of the fact that he
                    possessed nothing in common with the ruling portion of them. Certainly there was nothing in common
                    between Lincoln and 
                        Henry
                        Clay
                     save their political predilections; for on the social side and in all that
                    dinstinguished 
                        Clay
                     in addition to his brilliant genius, Mr. Lincoln bore absolutely no resemblance.
                    Lincoln was awkward, ungainly and homely to a marked degree; uneasy to the extent of being bashful
                    in the presence of ladies; lacking culture, ease and grace; a total stranger to many of the
                    conventionalities of polite society. And thus had he been destined to remain in the State of his
                    birth, he would have more nearly represented the mountaineer type and such as they, rather than that
                    other class so accustomed to such a man as 
                        Clay
                    .
            Clay was a Chesterfield in the drawing room, a 
                        Marlborough
                     in dignity and bearing before public assemblies; so polished and refined in his
                    manners, brilliant and fascinating in conversation, and so prepossessing in personal appearance as
                    scarcely to have an equal; withal a statesman the peer of any and all of his day, and so persuasive,
                    convincing and eloquent an orator, with a voice so charming as to awe vast assemblies, command
                    listening senates and cause his one-time enemy, John Randolph of 
                        Roanoke
                    , who sat in his invalid chair, to exclaim to his attendants: "Lift me up so
                    that I may hear that voice once more." 
                        Henry
                        Clay
                    , and such as he, will ever be regarded as embodying those eminent traits bespeaking the
                    genuine Kentuckian, rather than Abraham Lincoln, who would have been the last person to assert such
                    a claim for himself.
            Without, therefore, purposing to make invidious distinction against any, it cannot be justly charged
                    that the claim degenerates to the level of a mere puerility when it is asserted that Abraham Lincoln
                    was a typical Hoosier rather than a Kentuckian, and he was such not only during his residence in  Indiana, for one-fourth of his life, but it is further claimed
                    that he remained a Hoosier throughout his great career.
            State lines, of course, do not ordinarily mark the boundaries of racial characteristics or
                    peculiarities in manners and customs of representatives of the same people, save perhaps in those
                    instances where large rivers or mountain ranges form the boundary lines. Hence the change of
                    residence of Mr. Lincoln to the Sangamon river country was not such as to occasion any difficulty in
                    adjusting himself to the purely local manners, habits and customs of the people. But it is
                    nevertheless true that there was a marked individuality and certain well-defined characteristics in
                    speech and in habits of life typical of the Hoosier. These dominant traits of character which Mr.
                    Lincoln acquired during a residence in Indiana of fourteen years, clung to him to the day of his
                    death.
            In his pronunciation (he began his Cooper Institute address by saying "Mr.
                    Cheerman") his peculiar idioms, homely illustrations, figures of speech, his quaint humor
                    and rare wit, his personal appearance, his refusal—at least failure—to readily
                    conform to mere conventionalities in dress and many other things of that sort were pre-eminently
                    characteristic of the pioneer Hoosier. Mr. Lincoln's hands had held the ax and maul so long
                    as to prove rebellious when the conventionalities of men attempted to glove them. His custom was to
                    carry his gloves on occasion, but he rarely wore them.
            The genius and all that has made for fame in Indiana has in the main been south of the National Road,
                    which runs through the State centrally from east to west. The Hoosier north of this line was as a
                    rule an Eastern product—a Yankee—while the southern half of the State was
                    peopled by Carolinians, Tennesseeans, Virginians, Kentuckians, and a few Yankees, the latter class
                    coming by way of the Ohio river. If there is apparent contradiction to the
                    foregoing statement in the pride that the State of Indiana has had or now has in such men as General
                    Lew Wallace, Senator John W. Kern and Vice-President Thomas R. Marshall and others, let it be
                    remembered that their blood and lineage are wholly that of the southern Hoosier; the tide of
                    emigration coming up from the South merely carried them somewhat farther north than it did others.
            
            That there was marked illiteracy during the pioneer period goes without saying, and that there was a
                    sad lack of refinement and culture is also quite true. But it seems to have escaped the earlier
                    writers' notice for a time that the blood which peopled the southern portion of the State
                    in particular was for the most part quite as good as any in the New World, and since it was this
                    strain that was destined to produce the first typical American, Abraham Lincoln, there is the
                    highest reason for asserting that it was of the best.
            Prior to the Civil war the eastern portion of our country looked upon the West somewhat after the
                    manner that Europe viewed the New World, in the matter of letters, up to the time of 
                        Washington
                     Irving. The country had been accustomed to look to the Atlantic coast for leadership in
                    substantially everything, and so strongly intrenched was this notion in the minds of the people
                    generally that even the people of the West themselves were slow to realize that it was this section
                    of our country that was to produce the typical American. During the formative period of our
                    country's history the Atlantic coast was of necessity but Europe transplanted to the New
                    World. So it became necessary to allow the tide of emigration to reach that region somewhat remote
                    from these influences to bring forth "upon our new soil" this real dominant
                    Americanism.
            As great as was Mr. Lincoln in the estimation of the East, there are certain sections today that have
                    never yielded the ancient notion of the East's own rightful leadership, and they refuse to
                    allow that any good thing can come out of the West, which surpasses or even equals the East. Not
                    that there is any vulgar opposition to the claim made by the West, so much as there is a dogged
                    disposition to ignore the West to the point of thinking in terms of the East, and apparently not at
                    all realizing that what we as a nation had been unconsciously striving for has been in fact
                    consummated west of the Alleghenies.
            That southern Indiana was of all places best suited to rear this great character destined to furnish
                    the nations of the earth an example of the possibilities of the plain people is the position here
                    taken. The odium, not to say the shame, of  being a Hoosier has,
                    as heretofore indicated, undergone a marked change since Lincoln's time. While Mr. Lincoln
                    was a resident of this portion of Indiana, or soon after his reaching 
                        Illinois
                    , there were many domiciled in log cabins in this Indiana wilderness who were afterward
                    to become famous.
            It is significant that the private secretary to Mr. Lincoln, Major John Hay, who later became one of
                    our greatest secretaries of State, was born a few miles north of where Lincoln lived; and in fifteen
                    miles from the birthplace of Hay and a few miles to the east of Lincoln there lived Walter Q.
                    Gresham, afterward an eminent jurist, a great soldier and also a secretary of State. Here resided
                    Eads, of Eads jetties fame; and it was from this portion of the State that there came Generals
                    Harrison, Hovey, Wallace, Burnside, Rosencranz and others of Civil war fame; the Lanes, James,
                    Joseph and Henry S., and what shall we say of Generals Jefferson C. Davis, John Tipton, Governor
                    Jennings and Joaquin Miller; of writers, jurists, orators, educators and statesmen, who subdued this
                    wilderness, fought valiantly at Shiloh, Vicksburg, Antietam, gettysburg, or marched with Sherman to
                    the sea? Among such a people capable of producing and rearing these, and such as these, Mr. Lincoln
                    spent those years between seven and twenty-one. If we may be permitted to assume that the Almighty
                    desiring early to surround his destined leader through a terrible Civil war with those influences
                    best calculated to bring about the deliverance of a people in bondage, as well as preserve the unity
                    and continuity of a great nation, by taking him to a free State among a people who had strong
                    convictions against human slavery, then we may see no departure from His ancient methods in dealing
                    with His chosen.
            Jefferson Davis, who was born in a slave State and within a few miles of Mr. Lincoln, and reared in
                    the belief of the justice of such an institution, said by way of rejoinder to President
                    Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, in a message to the Confederate congress, that
                    "it was the most execrable measure ever recorded in the annals of guilty man."
                    Thus we may perhaps be allowed to surmise that had Lincoln continued to reside in 
                        Kentucky
                     his attitude, if not favorable toward slavery, at least might have been so lenient as
                    to have  eliminated him from leadership in the nation's
                    crisis. The Indiana residence, while freeing Mr. Lincoln from that favorable inclination that seems
                    usually to have prevailed with those reared under its sway, was at the same time in close
                    juxtaposition, and thus permitted him to occasionally look in upon its cruelties. It is quite
                    generally understood that Mr. Lincoln's first view of slavery after reaching maturity was
                    on the occasion of his celebrated flatboat trip down the Mississippi river with
                    Allen Gentry, this being when he was nineteen years of age.
            The writer, while residing in 
                        Spencer county
                    , Indiana, a number of years since, serving a church there in the capacity of minister,
                    had in his congregation a number of elderly men and women who remembered very well that Lincoln,
                    while a ferryman at the mouth of 
                        Anderson
                     creek, accompanied their neighbor, Mr. Ray, a flat-boatman, down the
                        Mississippi river some two years prior to the celebrated trip with Allen
                    Gentry.
            The circumstance and the occasion of the trip were as follows: Lincoln, while serving as ferryman at
                    the mouth of 
                        Anderson
                     creek, had cultivated a crop of tobacco on the site of the present little village of
                    Maxville, some three-fourths of a mile below the town of 
                        Troy
                    . The tobacco field had been planted and cultivated by Lincoln during the lull of
                    business as a ferryman, and while the tobacco had ripened, had been cut, cured and otherwise
                    prepared for the market, Mr. Ray, well known to Lincoln, "was building a flatboat up the
                    mouth of 
                        Anderson
                    " preparatory to making the southern trip. Accordingly Lincoln, thinking that
                    he saw a way for marketing his "two hogsheads of tobacco", proposed to Ray that
                    they "strike up a trade", and on Ray asking "what sort of a trade he
                    meant", Lincoln replied: "I've got my tobacco crop cured up and ready for
                    market and I've got no way to get it south unless I send it by boat, and it struck me
                    you'll need hands. You and me might get together some way. I'll tell you what
                    I'll do. I'll go along with you at the oar if you'll take my tobacco and
                    then pay me the difference." This proposition appealed to Ray and the bargain was
                    accordingly made, Lincoln going along as a hand "at the oar".
            William Forsythe, for many years a business man in 
                    
                  Grandview, Spencer
                        county
               , born and reared in the town of 
                        Troy
                    , remembered "long Abe", the ferryman. He often related to the writer
                    the circumstance of his having been "set across Anderson by Lincoln". He stated
                    that the boys of Troy would frequently go down to the mouth of 
                        Anderson
                     creek to hear "Long Abe talk and tell yarns." While he failed to
                    recall any of "Long Abe's yarns," yet he stated that when the boys had
                    "prowled about town" and time hung heavily on their hands, some one would at such
                    times speak up and say: "Boys, I'll tell you what let's do.
                    Let's go down to 
                        Anderson
                     and listen at Long Abe talk." Usually this suggestion was acted upon and they
                    would straightway repair to the ferry. When asked as to what "Long Abe" talked
                    about, he replied: "He would just set down and the boys'd all get around him and
                    he'd say things that would make them all laugh." Forsythe often related the
                    circumstance of Lincoln's making the flatboat trip down the Mississippi
                    river with Ray. 
                        Jefferson
                     Ray, a son of the flatboatman, was likewise a business man, and he, as was Forsythe,
                    was officially connected with the church of which the writer was pastor. Thus these and many
                    others—some having personal knowledge and others relating the circumstance as received
                    from Ray—establish beyond any doubt that Lincoln looked in upon slavery at least two
                    years earlier than we have been accustomed to suppose.
            The fact that Lincoln thus had an earlier view of slavery than is generally believed is, of course,
                    of no great moment in any effort made to establish his opposition to that institution. That he
                    possessed a life-long conviction that all men should be free is indisputably true; but if he did in
                    fact, as here recorded, make this flatboat trip south at such an impressionable age (that of
                    seventeen), and it is as clearly established as anything could well be, then it does become more or
                    less valuable not only as furnishing him a more extended view of the effects of slavery, but
                    doubtless in no small measure served also as a preparation for the two later journeys south in more
                    mature years; thus enabling him to profit during the interval by meditation and reflection such as
                    must have necessarily arisen on the occasion of the journey made in the earlier period of his life.
            
            In addition to the foregoing, the fact of Lincoln's having made this journey South should be
                    told now since the earlier biographers have failed to record it, and the passing of all those who
                    could supply data and subject matter precludes the possibility of any future historian being able to
                    glean in a field which is of course now largely, if not wholly, barren.
            It should perhaps be stated in this connection that the writer found no authentic account of any
                    definitely expressed convictions by Lincoln, covering this period, on the question of African
                    slavery. However, James Gentry, when interrogated as to this particular, exclaimed: "Why,
                    Abe always was against slavery!" And then he added: "But Abe followed Henry Clay
                    around wherever he'd go in mighty nigh everything, and old Harry's notions was
                    responsible fer Abe a bein' so slow to send out his Emancipation Proclamation.
                    Abe'd a done it long before he did, I reckon, if his head hadn't been so full of
                    Henry Clay's notions."
            That Henry Clay was Lincoln's political ideal and possessed marked influence upon him is
                    true, and to no small extent justifies the conviction here expressed by his old boyhood friend and
                    associate. Lincoln, naturally conservative and of the 
                        Clay
                     school in politics, not only saved the border States to the 
                        Union
                     during the Civil war, but on the other hand was able sufficiently to modify his 
                        Clay
                     notion of gradual emancipation to issue finally the Emancipation Proclamation when it
                    appeared to be warranted by military necessity.
            ONE-FOURTH OF LINCOLN'S LIFE SPENT
                    In INDIANA
                    
                        "I tell my Tad that we will go back to the farm where I was happier as a boy when I
                            dug potatoes at twenty-five cents a day than I am now."
                    
                
            Mention has been made of the fact that in many instances those who have undertaken the task of
                    writing extensively concerning the life and character of Mr. Lincoln have professed to see
                    comparatively little which appeared to justify special treatment beyond a few anecdotes and stories
                    in the events of his career prior to his becoming a resident of 
                        Illinois
                    .  It is strange indeed that in this day, when
                    educators are calling attention particularly to the adolescent period of youth, that there has not
                    been some effort beyond that hitherto attempted to note particularly this period in the life of our
                    martyred President.
            The failure to do this, especially in more recent times, is doubtless attributable in part to the
                    fact that those who have attempted to gather suitable data have generally made hasty journeys to
                    this field, and meeting with comparatively little success, have yielded to the belief that this
                    period was so elusive as not to warrant any extended effort.
            In view of the fact that Lincoln is so generally regarded as a model in the higher reaches of
                    statesmanship, politics, and morals, and possessing as he did substantially all of the cardinal
                    virtues, so that writers and speakers, both on the platform and in the pulpit, editors of magazines,
                    the press, educators in the great universities, the schoolmaster in the "little red
                    schoolhouse", and the plain people in the highways and about the firesides in millions of
                    homes, are accustomed daily to recount his virtues, laud and magnify his name, therefore, if it can
                    be shown with any degree of certainty that the formative years had much to do in shaping Mr.
                    Lincoln's unprecedented career, then it would appear that a somewhat extended investigation
                    of this period of his life is not without considerable interest. Moreover, if these neglected years
                    may be made to yield a fruitful harvest, then it is but just to the memory of Lincoln that this be
                    done, especially since he reached the heights of fame from a lower level than any other great
                    character in history.
            The only great men in American history comparable to President Lincoln by reason of early
                    disadvantages are Horace Greely, Henry Wilson and Benjamin Franklin. If in the judgment of some
                    there be yet others, distinctively American, deemed worthy of such comparison, these named are at
                    least representative. They were all born in a zone of alluring chance and opportunity as compared
                    with Lincoln. Greely and Wilson were each within a three days' tramp of educational
                    centers, while Franklin was born and lived in one. The beaten path of travel crossed their horizon.
                    There was no  lack of incentive and inspiring examples of
                    patriotic men prominent in public affairs, while Lincoln's youth was far remote from any
                    and all of those influences calculated to uplift and inspire, things usually deemed so essential in
                    attaining unto excellence.
            Lincoln's poverty, like Franklin's and Wilson's, was exceedingly great,
                    but was in his case more easily and contentedly endured than the more exacting thing of being
                    deprived of a chance to quench his consuming thirst for knowledge. His youthful ambition to rise in
                    the world was native, dominating and irresistible. Denied as he was the privileges of school, access
                    to libraries, and the association of the educated and learned, it was left for him to demonstrate
                    the possibility of going forth to conquer, unaided by artificial and external means, save a borrowed
                    library of seven books and becoming as he did such a master of them as to enable him in turn to
                    master men, cope with rising events and challenge the admiration of mankind. So great were his
                    achievements and so enduring his fame that he staggers royalty on its road with burdens of
                    oppression into soberness and justice, and provokes and inspires by his illustrious deeds along the
                    path from the dust-covered floor of his wilderness cabin to the nation's capitol, the
                    peasant's son to hope. The boy Lincoln needed no incentive to acquire knowledge. To know
                    with him was from the first a passion. He did not wish so much for examples of what learning might
                    accomplish or produce as he did for the necessary tools with which he might fashion the boy of his
                    day-dreams—himself—into the man he really believed himself capable of
                    becoming.
            He early learned to believe in himself, implicitly, trustfully and overwhelmingly, and no one thing
                    was more conspicuous throughout his entire career than this, save perhaps his honesty. No President
                    of the 
                        United States
                     ever received more advice and listened to it more patiently than he, but no man who
                    ever sat in the executive chair of the nation needed it less or used it more sparingly. This was
                    characteristic of him as a youth. He gave a patient hearing to all and then followed his own
                    counsel. He was quite self-contained and abundantly resourceful, accustomed as he was in youth, and
                         later in his public career, to be much on the
                    "stump", yet his caution was so great as to make him a rather poor extemporaneous
                    speaker. He must first think it over and then he was ready without fear or favor. He never doubted
                    his ability to meet any emergency or master any task, and he cared but little for precedent,
                    although he established more precedents than any other President in American history. He wrote his
                    first inaugural address without consultation with anybody, and read this "as if he had been
                    delivering inaugural addresses all his life." He kept his own counsel. In mature years he
                    rarely confided in his most intimate friends. He never did fully in any of them. In youth this trait
                    was noticeable. He was diffident on occasions, and impressed all of his associates with the idea
                    that what he said on any given subject was but little as compared to much that he could say. He
                    never left any one in doubt, however, as to any position taken on any subject. From the day of his
                    youthful opposition to intemperance down to the "house divided against itself"
                    speech, and the famous letter to Horace Greely wherein he stated that his "paramount object
                    was to save the 
                        Union
                    ", he stood out in the open. He rescued politics from the charge of trickery
                    and double-dealing and restored it to a place of honor, and if it has at any time since sunk down
                    into the "mud and scum of things", it is no fault of his.
            What Lincoln purposed doing or saying in any given case he carried out to the letter. Where most
                    others jumped at conclusions, he patiently reasoned his way, and when once reached no one could by
                    any possibility, either by persuasion or force, move him. Mrs. Lincoln once said of him:
                    "When he has made up his mind no one can change him."
            As a youth his obstinacy would have passed for stubbornness but for the manifest fairness and
                    justness of the position taken. This, together with the fact that his sense of justice and honesty
                    ever caused him to make amends for any mistake in judgment which he made, caused him to be
                    invariably chosen by his associates to adjudicate differences.
            Any boyhood quarrel leading to fight ended by Lincoln's opponent becoming his frind. He
                    "got mad", but was a stranger to malice. When he said in a great state
                    paper—  his second Inaugural
                    Address,—"with malice toward none, with charity for all," he was not
                    voicing a thing learned during the terrible four years' war; he was but announcing to the
                    world that his lifelong disposition to hold no malice, after having been tried in the fires of four
                    years of civil war, had come out unchanged. Had General Andrew Jackson been in his stead and given
                    utterance to such a sentiment, we would perhaps have deemed it so at variance with his accustomed
                    manner as to call it hypocrisy. Jackson, however, would never have uttered this sentiment at the
                    close of a great war for the preservation of the Federal Union. It may be doubted whether we have
                    ever had any other President who would have done so.
            Young Lincoln had a fight with William Grigsby when sixteen years of age, and not only did they
                    "make up" and become friends, but during the Civil war on one occasion when party
                    spirit ran high, a man in Gentryville was freely indulging in criticism of Lincoln and
                    "Bill Grigsby hauled his coat off and made him take it back". The Lincoln critic
                    was a local bully, and after the trouble, when Lincoln's honor had thus been saved by
                    proxy, Grigsby exclaimed: "No man can talk about Abe around here unless he expects to take
                    a lickin'."
            The great Lincoln lecturers, such as Bishop Charles Fowler, Vice-President Schuyler Colfax and Col.
                    Henry Watterson, listened to with attention and great profit by multitudes, always placed the
                    emphasis upon other periods in Mr. Lincoln's life rather than upon the formative years.
                    Indeed, it cannot escape the notice of the least observant that substantially all that has ever been
                    said upon the platform concerning Mr. Lincoln's youth, especially as pertaining to or
                    influencing in any way his public career, has been very largely confined to those years (the first
                    seven) spent in 
                        Kentucky
                    , the State of his birth.
            Some of his biographers, in desiring to have him secure the supposed benefits of a longer residence
                    in his native State than it was his fortune to have, took some liberties with certain incidents
                    transpiring at a later period and gave them a 
                        Kentucky
                     setting. Two biographers at least distinctly assert 
                    that Lincoln was called "honest Abe", while yet a resident of 
                        Kentucky
                    ; and some of them attribute to him the ability to read and write while a mere infant,
                    making much of his schooling in that State, and otherwise making assertions that are incompatible
                    with reliable testimony.
            The boy Lincoln learned to read quite young, and while yet a resident of 
                        Kentucky
                    . He was, however, indebted to his mother for this rather than to Riney or Hazel, his
                    two teachers there. The attendance at the Riney school was at the age of four, only for a very brief
                    time, and he went simply to accompany his sister Sarah. He was seven years old when he attended the
                    next term. Evidently he was greatly profited and made rapid progress during this session.
            Col. Henry Watterson in his great lecture on Lincoln, as well as in other public addresses where
                    incidental reference to Lincoln is made, invariably speaks of him as the "great
                    Kentuckian", making no mention whatever of that period in Mr. Lincoln's life spent
                    in the State of Indiana. But as if fortifying himself against the possibility of this assertion
                    being called in question, since the whole of that life save the first seven years was spent outside
                    of 
                        Kentucky
                    , he straightway asks: "For what was 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , but
                    a 
                        Kentucky
                     colony?"
            In view of the foregoing logic, what would be the claim in behalf of 
                        Henry
                        Clay
                    , who was a bearded man from the State of 
                        Virginia
                     when taking up his residence in 
                        Kentucky
                    ? And to use the interrogatory of Colonel Watterson, and apply it to Mr. Clay, we may
                    ask: "For what was 
                        Kentucky
                     but a 
                        Virginia
                     colony?" Again in the case of Gen. Albert Sidney Johnston of 
                        New England
                     lineage, that great military captain who came so nearly planting the Stars and Bars on
                    the banks of the Ohio river; does it follow that he was a 
                        Puritan
                     when his impressionable years of training were spent among Cavaliers? And yet again,
                    because the last remaining member of the old school of brilliant editors, Col. Watterson himself,
                    honored as he is throughout the nation, and ever regarded as a truly great Kentuckian, because he
                    himself happened to be born elsewhere than in the State of 
                        Kentucky
                    , does it in the least lessen the just claim to such distinguished consideration,  since he like Mr. Clay is the very embodiment of all of those
                    eminent traits bespeaking a Kentuckian?
            When the bill before the 
                        United States
                     Senate proposing to appropriate $2,000,000 for the erection of a Greek
                    memorial temple to the memory of Lincoln was under discussion, Senator Ollie James of 
                        Kentucky
                    , in speaking in behalf of the measure and in opposition to the proposed substitute,
                    that of erecting a memorial highway from 
                        Washington City
                     to the battlefield of 
                        Gettysburg
                    , spoke of Mr. Lincoln as "that great Kentuckian", and suggested that
                    if it was deemed advisable to construct a Lincoln roadway anywhere, it would be more fitting to
                    build one from Lincoln's birthplace in 
                        Kentucky
                     to the State of 
                        Illinois
                    . The presumption is that in that event this highway would pass through Indiana,
                    although, as usual, no mention was made of that State.
            Ex-Presidents Roosevelt and Taft both visited the birthplace of Mr. Lincolln in official capacity,
                    and both of them in addresses on those occasions did not fail to note the fact (and very properly
                    so) that Mr. Lincoln was a Kentuckian by birth, but no mention was made of the fact that when
                    Illinois received him he was a bearded man, and when Kentucky dismissed him he was a mere child,
                    departing with little more than a memory of his native State.
            Colonel Roosevelt in particular spoke of Mr. Lincoln as "the great Kentuckian", and
                    associated him with the 
                        Kentucky
                     pioneers. Indeed, some of Mr. Lincoln's biographers have repeatedly
                    denominated him as a 
                        Kentucky
                     pioneer, whereas his parents were both Virginians; and while he was born in 
                        Kentucky
                    , in leaving that State while yet so young it cannot rightly be claimed that he was in
                    any sense a 
                        Kentucky
                     pioneer. As Colonel Roosevelt asserts, he was associated with these pioneers, although
                    but very briefly and merely as a child. However, some of his Indiana neighbors were Kentuckians.
            A search through numerous addresses delivered on great public occasions, in lectures, periodicals and
                    books reveals the unmistakable fact that but small space has been allotted to those years in the
                    life of the great President spent in Indiana, but much has been said by the many concerning Mr.
                    Lincoln's  birthplace, and a labored effort made to
                    account for his greatness by the mere fact of his having had a 
                        Kentucky
                     origin. The reasons for this are perhaps not difficult to ascertain, at least some of
                    them.
            
               
                        Kentucky
                     had the proud distinction of early producing or adopting many great men. Being the
                    gateway to the North through which the emigrant tides poured to the newer States and Territories,
                    she took toll of these, often selecting the best, but not always. Being a slave State and fostering
                    an institution that materially contributed to the creation of a regime generally prevailing over a
                    large portion of the State, although not all, there was in consequence lodged with this favored
                    class all the political power, as well as the intellectual, financial and social prestige. It was
                    this class that was met with and spoken of, and being especially fortunate in her adoption of 
                        Henry
                        Clay
                    , the world without readily came to regard 
                        Clay
                    , and such as he, as typifying 
                        Kentucky
                     as a whole.
            Her mountaineers and poor whites did not at that time disturb averages as they now do. They were then
                    content to enjoy their feudal fights. The currents of life swept around them. No John Fox, Jr., was
                    at that period portraying their life and character, but whatever was said in song or story was of
                    the other dominant and ruling class. So true was this that when Stephen Collins Foster from farther
                    north looked in upon this scene he was induced to locate "The Old 
                        Kentucky
                     Home" in the Blue Grass region with "darkies gay" and
                    pickaninnies playing on the cabin floor.
            Indiana was not so fortunate in some particulars. During the pioneer period of her history, and
                    therefore while Lincoln was a resident of that State, the term "Hoosier" was given
                    to her citizens, a name at that time, and for a considerable period thereafter, conveying the idea
                    of, whatever else it may, inferiority, boorishness in manners, deplorable ignorance and crudity; and
                    thus the name was indicative of that something bespeaking an inhabitant of a State whose community
                    life was believed to be faithfully portrayed by Edward Eggleston in the Hoosier School
                        Master. Although Eggleston perhaps never meant that his fictitious portraiture of the  early pioneers was to be taken so seriously, but, fiction though
                    it was, and portraying as it did the life and character of the pioneer type of that day, not only in
                    the State of Indiana but throughout the Middle West as well, no matter of fact history was ever more
                    faithfully and literally received. It is believed that in remote sections of our country there are
                    those today who still hold to the ancient belief, and apply it to the present generation of
                    Hoosiers. Therefore, for one seeking to eulogize a great character, and particularly such a one as
                    Lincoln, deficient as he was in the training of the schools, certainly anything else but polished in
                    the manners and customs peculiar to the older and more settled communities, and above all, one who
                    apparently by nature was so democratic in his tastes and appetencies, there is small wonder that the
                    earlier historians and eulogists (all of whom save one were from without the State) studiously
                    avoided the Hoosier period in Mr. Lincoln's life, save that in tracing his itinerary they
                    bridged these formative years spent among Hoosiers with a few incidents and anecdotes of more or
                    less interest, and briefly noted the beginnings of his career, then passing on to the more active
                    years of his manhood in the State of 
                        Illinois
                    .
            At this late day when we are so far removed from those things once generally prevalent, when the
                    title "Hoosier" has become quite as honorable as that borne by the citizens of any
                    State in the 
                        Union
                    , and more especially when we come to consider the life and services of such a world
                    character as was Mr. Lincoln, some things may be justly asserted concerning the Hoosier period in
                    his life with a reasonable expectation that adequate emphasis be allowed and it in consequence be
                    placed in its proper relation.
            Three States, 
                        Kentucky
                    , Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , had to do in producing, rearing and offering to the world this great character. It is
                    a distinguished honor that the State of 
                        Kentucky
                     has in being able to point with pardonable pride to the spot that gave birth to our
                    greatest American. This spot has been highly and very fittingly honored by the expenditure of a vast
                    amount of money in the erection of a suitable memorial building. This has caused Presidents,
                    congressmen, governors  of States, and multitudes of the plain
                    people to make pilgrimages there and thus pay homage to his memory.
            The prairie State of 
                        Illinois
                     that twice offered Mr. Lincoln as her successful candidate for the presidency, and in
                    whose soil his body now reposes beneath a costly and imposing monument, has just cause for pride.
                    But if Kentucky gave Mr. Lincoln birth, it was as if she deemed that quite sufficient honor and
                    speedily dismissed him at the tender age of seven to be received by the new State of Indiana with a
                    pioneer's welcome. Here amid the heroic frontier hardships he reached his majority,
                    spending fourteen years, or just one-fourth of his entire life on Indiana soil.
            In an address to an Indiana regiment of Civil war soldiers President Lincoln said: "I was
                    born in 
                        Kentucky
                    , raised in Indiana, and now live in 
                        Illinois
                    ." Since it is particularly with these years spent in Indiana with which we
                    have to do, the inquiry is here made: What period in the life of any man is of as much interest or
                    ordinarily calculated to influence and shape the destiny as those years between seven and
                    twenty-one? What happened during those formative years in Mr. Lincoln's life? Was his stay
                    in Indiana a mere chance, one of the accidents in the fortune of a roving, nomadic father, or is
                    there rather discerned a leading of 
                        Providence
                    ?
            It may not be inappropriate here to raise the question, would his career have been what it afterward
                    became had he spent these formative years elsewhere, even in the State of 
                        Illinois
                    ? Or, reversing the order of history, had he been born in Indiana, spending the first
                    seven years there, removing to the State of 
                        Kentucky
                    , remaining there until attaining his majority, and then going to 
                        Illinois
                     as he did, would his career have been what it was? It is believed that certain
                    influences would have produced marked changes in him, and so much so as to have prevented Lincoln
                    from becoming the great anti-slavery advocate and leader. Moreover, it cannot be doubted that had he
                    spent all of these fourteen formative years in 
                        Kentucky
                    , even though born in Indiana, his greatness would have almost wholly been attributed to
                    a residence and rearing among 
                        Kentucky
                     pioneers, and the accident of his birth would have doubtless received somewhat less
                    consideration than it  has. Unquestionably, had Mr. Lincoln been
                    reared elsewhere than in Indiana, particularly in a slave State, the plans and purposes of his life
                    might have been hindered or defeated altogether. In raising such questions we are not wholly in a
                    field purely conjectural.
            THE EVERY-Day LIFE OF LINCOLN
            
            
                    I personally wish Jacob Freese, of 
                            New Jersey
                        , appointed colonel of a colored regiment, and this regardless of whether he can
                        tell the exact color of Julius Caesar's hair.
                
            Many people have from time to time expressed a desire to know somewhat more in detail concerning the
                    "every-day life of Lincoln's youth;" something as to his
                    "manners, habits and customs;" whether he "possessed vicious
                    tendencies;" whether he was "given to idleness or not," as has been
                    alleged; whether he was "of a quarrelsome nature," and many other things of this
                    sort, so that some adequate idea might be formed as to just what extent, if any, there was a basis
                    for supposing him at that time making any preparation, however unconsciously, for the unprecedented
                    career that awaited him.
            A painstaking effort was made covering this field of inquiry, and it is believed that these repeated
                    interviews with his former associates elicited information which will aid in reaching conclusions as
                    to the influence some things transpiring in his youth had in shaping his destiny.
            It should be stated first of all that Lincoln himself was accustomed to assert from his fifteenth
                    year onward, in a sort of half jest, half earnest way, that "he didn't always
                    expect to grub, dig and maul." When asked at such times what he expected to do he
                    invariably replied: "I'll do something and be somebody," and often closed
                    by saying: "I'll be President, I reckon." If Lincoln possessed visions of
                    a future altogether different from the ceaseless round of menial toil, which did not particularly
                    promise to better his condition since he failed to receive remuneration commensurate thereto, his
                    boyhood associates in no single case asserted that they at any time anticipated the great career of
                    Mr. Lincoln. As we now look back upon Mr. Lincoln's career and witness his rise to fame, it
                    appears  so utterly at variance with all that is deemed essential
                    to achieve greatness as to occasion momentary doubts of the truthfulness of history. Had he lived in
                    an earlier age his life story would have speedily passed into romance and fiction.
            Contrary to the usual representation, a number of these boyhood friends, while not especially
                    schooled, were quite well informed, and many of them had prospered until they possessed at least
                    passing wealth. No better citizen could be found anywhere than the Gentrys, Larmars, Halls,
                    Forsythes, Brooners, and others. These men asserted that "Lincoln as a boy was jokey and
                    lively, entering into all of their boyish sports heartily." These sports and games
                    consisted of jumping half hammon (now called hop, step and jump), the broad jump, running, slap
                    jack, town ball, stink base, wrestling, I spy, etc.
            On one occasion when quite a number of the young folks had gathered at the Lincoln cabin and were
                    engaged in a game of "hide and go seek," Lincoln among them, Granny Hanks came to
                    the door with a Bible in her hands, and calling to young Lincoln, said: "Abe, I want you to
                    come in hyar and read a chapter for me out'n the Bible. I aint hearn it read fur a right
                    smart spell." It should be stated that it is not certain just who this old lady was, but
                    there was a lady called "Granny Hanks" who for a time at least, resided with the
                    Lincolns. These pioneer neighbors of the Lincolns frequently alluded to her in conversation. No
                    mention has ever been made of her by any of Mr. Lincoln's biographers, and it is quite
                    immaterial for our purpose to establish the identity, save that there might arise the charge that
                    this character was purely fictitious. That substantially all of the immediate relatives of Nancy
                    Hanks followed her to Indiana is the statement made by the Hankses themselves, and thus there need
                    be no scruples as to the identity of this particular lady.
            We are accustomed to believe that in those days respect on the part of young folks for old age was
                    especially characteristic. At any rate, in this case Lincoln immediately quit the game when so
                    requested and went into the house followed by all the rest of the young folks. The future humorist
                    and wit, who read a chapter from Artemus Ward to members of his 
                    cabinet just before announcing his intention of publishing the Emancipation Proclamation, now
                    gravely seated himself opposite the old lady and presently began thumbing the leaves of the book
                    which had been handed to him in search of a suitable chapter. The young people had crowded into the
                    room, some being seated on the backless bench, some two or three on chairs, and a number were
                    standing about the room. Presently the reader began a chapter, presumably in the Prophecy of Isaiah,
                    but he had not read very far until he began making use of Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress and such other volumes as he was familiar with, all this time
                    making solemn but ill-concealed sly observations as to just how this rendering was being received by
                    Granny Hanks. After a number of verses (?) had been read the old lady's suspicion became
                    aroused, and finally when the reader ventured to make a rather free translation she suddenly
                    interrupted him by exclaiming: "Abe, I've hearn the Bible read a great many times
                    in my life, but I never yit hearn them things in it afore." Lincoln, perceiving that he was
                    fairly caught, threw off his make-believe solemnity and abandoned himself to guffaws of hearty
                    laughter, at the same time lifting the book high above his head and occasionally striking his knees
                    a resounding whack with the free hand. After indulging himself in this manner for a time and
                    occasioning more or less merriment among the older boys and girls present, his laughter at length
                    subsided and he remarked: "Granny, you caught me that time, didn't you?"
                    He then began deliberately reading again, this time following the text.
            The character of Lincoln's humor, and his disposition to make free use of it at the least
                    provocation by associating it, as in this instance, with the more serious things of life, were
                    apparently prominent enough at an early period readily to account for some of the surprises produced
                    in the minds of cabinet officers and others high in authority during the days of his occupancy of
                    the 
                        White
                     House.
            It is exceedingly difficult for those of this century and age of plenty, accustomed to the numerous
                    conveniences of modern life, to appreciate adequately the social standing, self denial and lack of
                    the many things once regarded as luxuries,  but now considered as
                    necessities and which in many instances are now to be had merely for a trifle. Moreover, the early
                    settlers, particularly in Lincoln's day, had to contend with some things which their
                    descendants are free from altogether. In addition to the afflictions peculiar to the pioneer period,
                    as well as the danger of being exposed to wild animals, there were many annoyances to which the
                    people were subjected. They had the mosquito without the modern conveniences of meeting his attacks;
                    the woods tick, still met with in certain sections; burrs, such as the "stick
                    tights," "Spanish needles," cockle and "beggar's
                    lice;" venomous serpents, such as the deadly rattlers and copper heads—the
                    latter being, if not quite as venomous, certainly more treacherous—chiggers and numerous
                    inconveniences. In addition to the foregoing there were the body and head lice, particularly the
                    latter. It was Lincoln's favorite poet, Burns, who wrote a poem "on seeing a louse
                    on a lady's bonnet." Had the Scotch bard been a resident of this section in the
                    early days, he would have had occasion to witness the "crawlin beastie" again and
                    again, for no term of school ever closed without a siege by this species of vermin. Wesley Hall
                    stated: 
                        One morning bright and early Abe came to our home, and after being seated and asked by my
                            mother in true neighborly fashion, "how are all the folks?" he replied:
                            "They are all well, Mrs. Hall, but mother thinks; the children have got the
                            creepers, and she sent me over here this morning to borry your fine-tooth comb."
                            When this information was imparted, Mrs. Hall threw up her hands and exclaimed: "My
                            Lordy, Abe, d'ye reckon it's a fact?" Whereupon Abraham observed
                            that "he reckoned they had but not having a comb with teeth close enough together
                            to ketch ‘em, he had been dispatched on the hunt of one that would."
                    
                
            The accommodating possessor of this household article brought it forth and knowing that her own
                    children, and Wesley in particular, had been at play with the Lincoln children, she suddenly
                    suggested the possibility of the "creepers" having found lodgment on the heads of
                    the younger members of her own household and desiring to verify her supposition, she put it to the
                    test by proceeding to comb the head of young Wesley and found abundant evidence to justify all of
                    her suspicions. After young Hall had been subjected to this rigid examination,  with Lincoln seated near, occasionally offering humorous remarks, Mrs.
                    Hall made bold to suggest the possibility of the "creepers" being upon
                    Lincoln's head; whereupon he acquiesced to the effect that there was a possibility of this
                    being true. Then Mrs. Hall further pointedly suggested that she be privileged to make examination,
                    and Lincoln getting down on his knees before her and bending his head over, facing a newspaper
                    spread out on the floor, it was not long before all concerned were satisfied that the investigation
                    was timely.
            Lincoln was given to indulging himself in the sport of fishing, coon and opossum hunting at nights,
                    but found sport distasteful if he had to stalk a deer cautiously, approach a flock of turkeys or sit
                    quietly on the bank of a stream without a companion. Such distaste grew out of the fact that it
                    divorced him from his companions or necessitated refraining from conversation. His enjoyment of the
                    night-hunting was attributed to the fact that on such expeditions there was small need of refraining
                    from hilarious conversation, and since it placed him in company of a goodly number of men and boys
                    he engaged in this particular diversion quite frequently. His overmastering desire to be found in
                    the company of others—the more, the better—led him to attend all social
                    functions of the neighborhood such as weddings, corn-huskings, log-rollings and raisings. In fact,
                    he could usually be found mingling with the crowd no matter what had called it together. His
                    presence, therefore, on some of these occasions, was not due to any especial interest in the things
                    done, but because he loved the fellowship of men. He frequented all horse races held in the
                    settlement, and if a fight between two "bullies" was scheduled, he was invariably
                    present. These horse races, of course, were nothing more than a test of speed of "brag
                    horses" in that and adjoining neighborhoods, the owners having usually placed a bet and
                    challenged one another to a test. They partook somewhat of the nature of Indian pony races rather
                    than regular race track meets. The race was run on a straight-away, often a public road. Such
                    gatherings afforded opportunity also to ascertain who was the champion "wrastler"
                    and the best broad or half-hammon jumper. Foot races were indulged in; "town
                    ball," "stink base," and "chicken" were played not only
                    before  and after the races, but on many other occasions where
                    crowds were gathered. Horseshoe pitching, throwing a heavy maul as a shot put, lifting a dead
                    weight—usually a boulder or log—and many other such things tested physical
                    endurance and prowess. In all feats of strength 
                        Lincoln
                     excelled, such as throwing the maul and wrestling. Being exceedingly awkward, his
                    movements, while surprisingly quick, were ludicrous and provoked more or less merriment. Fistic
                    encounters were quite common, but resort to the use of a weapon such as a knife or gun was
                    exceedingly rare. Men bearing any grudge against each other, or taking umbrage at any fancied slight
                    or insult, would say: "I'll meet you Saturday at town and I'll settle
                    with you there." Hence Saturday afternoon fights were numerous. Usually the fight was fair,
                    that is, "no gouging or biting" was permitted and no interference on the part of
                    the bystanders was suffered on penalty of a personal chastisement by a "backer."
                    If the under man "hollered enough," that was usually satisfactory to both the
                    victor and onlookers, but if in the heat of passion other punishment was still meted out, there was
                    no lack of friends and sympathizers for the "under dog" in the fight, who speedily
                    came to his rescue. Lincoln was much given to wrestling, but seldom fought. He was not averse to
                    this, but his well-known strength for a youth—a minor—prevented difficulties
                    with men; and since he reached his gigantic stature of six feet, four inches, when sixteen years of
                    age, and possessing great strength, he was "too big to fight a boy and too young to fight a
                    man." It should not be inferred by any of these remarks that Lincoln was quarrelsome or
                    usually disposed to "pick a quarrel." Indeed, the very opposite was true of him,
                    but in the phraseology of the day, "he allus toted his own skillet." When provoked
                    and jeered at by the uninitiated because of his awkward appearance, he received the banterings at
                    first quite good naturedly, and his tormentors were easily led into the belief that he was a coward.
                    When forbearance ceased to be a virtue, 
                        Lincoln
                     stood up for his honor and invariably "thrashed" his assailant.
            Rothchild in Master of Men, in speaking of 
                        Lincoln
                     during this period, said: "He was the shyest, most reticent, most uncouth and
                    awkward appearing, homeliest and worst dressed of  any in the
                    entire crowd." This characterization in some particulars is not in accordance with the
                    facts as detailed by many of Lincoln's early friends. Young Lincoln was not shy of anything
                    or any one, save that he manifested more or less uneasiness in the presence of ladies. This was
                    certainly true of him while reading law at 
                  New
                        Salem, Illinois
               , when it is
                    related that he changed his boarding place because a number of strange ladies came there to take
                    their meals. When called upon in 
                        Washington City
                     to make an address before ladies, he stated that "he was not accustomed to the
                    eulogy of women." Lincoln was not reticent at any time in life, and no more during his
                    youth than at a later period, but if by reticence it is aimed to show that he could keep his own
                    counsel and otherwise prevent encroachment upon his reserve, then no youth nor adult was any more
                    reticent than he. But as a youth "he was a talker," and an incessant one, although
                    he was a good listener. He was not dictatorial or inclined to monopolize conversation, but so
                    incessant a talker was he that he was charged, and doubtless justly so, by his associates as being
                    "vain about hearing his own voice." However, it should be said that this
                    allegation was made, having in view his habit of "preaching" or "stump
                    speaking."
            Major John Hay, his private secretary, asserted that Lincoln's intellectual arrogance and
                    unconscious assumption of superiority was the one thing that such men as Senator Sumner and Governor
                    Chase could never forgive. Secretary Seward, that astute politician and sage of 
                        Auburn
                    , after three months of the untried 
                        Lincoln
                     in the 
                        White
                     House, wrote his wife that "the President is more than a match for us
                    all."
            When Mrs. Lincoln early in the administration said to her husband that certain politicians were
                    asserting that Secretary Seward would "run things," 
                        Lincoln
                     calmly remarked: 
                        I may not rule myself, but certainly Seward shall not. The only ruler I have Is my
                            conscience, following God in it, and these men will have to learn that yet.
                    
                
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     had a becoming respect for age—provided age set the example. A lady whom 
                        Lincoln
                     had occasionally called on and accompanied to social gatherings, said: 
                    
                        One evenin' Abe and me wus standin' out in the yard at our house a
                            talkin', and we heard a clatter of horses' hoofs comin' up the
                            road that run past the house, and purty soon we seen who it was. It was a neighbor that wus
                            always braggin' about his horses, a claimin' he had the fastest horse in
                            all the country ‘round, and he had a proud way of ridin’ just to show
                            off. So as I say, up he come, like as if he wus going after a doctor, and when he got
                            opposite to us he stopped and begun as usual to brag about his horse, sayin' among
                            other things that he could ride him in a lope all the way to Boonville and he'd
                            never even draw a long breath, and a whole lot more things like that. Abe stood there and
                            ‘peered to listen to him like if ‘twas the first time he'd
                            ever heard him tell them things, and then when he finally got through Abe up and says:
                            "I've heard you say that time and agin. In fact your always a
                            braggin' on what you've got and what you c'n do or a
                            goin' to do. Now suppose jest for once in your life you quit your braggin'
                            and blowin' around and really do something. Strike out for Boonville, and when you
                            git there, take a right good look and see if your brag horse aint fetchin' some
                            mighty short breaths."
                    
                
            As to Lincoln's being "the worst dressed youth in the crowd," that is an
                    overdrawn statement, for they were all dressed about as nearly alike as coon skin caps, hunting
                    shirts or a blouse and buckskin breeches could make them. If there was any difference, it would be
                    in 
                        Lincoln
                    's favor on the score of cleanliness, for his mother frequently commented upon
                    the fact of his being so careful with his clothing, and certainly no better evidence could be
                    desired in such a matter than that of a mother. If the assertion that he was the worst dressed one
                    in the crowd should be from the tailor's point of view, then there need be no difference of
                    opinion concerning it. He appears to have always had more or less difficulty in obtaining garments
                    large enough. His trousers were usually from five to twelve inches too short, and since he almost
                    invariably wore moccasins or low topped shoes, there was an unprotected area between the ankle and
                    the knee that was quite large. 
                        Lincoln
                     himself, in speaking of this when accused of being associated with the well-to-do and
                    prosperous, said that this part of his anatomy "had been exposed to the elements for so
                    long that his shin bone was permanently blue"; and he submitted that "there was
                    nothing about the circumstance indicating aristocracy."
            As has been clearly indicated, Lincoln was often selected by the uninitiated as a target for sport,
                    and his good nature was frequently regarded as an indication of cowardice. On one  occasion he was attacked as he stood near a tree, by a larger boy with
                    a crowd of others at his back. It was supposed, of course, that the big awkward boy would run when
                    the charge was made, but not so. Instead, Lincoln quickly laid out the first, second and third boy
                    in rapid succession, and then placing his back against a tree, he turned tormentor, daring the
                    remainder to make any further demonstration, and when they elected not to do so he taunted them for
                    being cowards.
            There was at least one instance when Lincoln yielded to the temptation to deviate from his accustomed
                    fairness, yet it would appear that there was some extenuation in the matter. Colonel Lamon, in his
                    biography of 
                        Lincoln
                    , relates what purports to be the correct version of this circumstance, but that there
                    are some statements in it wholly incompatible with the general deportment of 
                        Lincoln
                    , as well as in the subject matter itself, is the assertion of a number of eye witnesses
                    of the affair. Wesley Hall, James Gentry, Redmond Grigsby and Joseph Gentry were all living at the
                    time that this incident was investigated by the writer. They were all present when the incident took
                    place and were much given to relating this circumstance and for some cause reverted to it more
                    frequently than any other that came under their observation during the early life of 
                        Lincoln
                    .
            A crowd of boys and young men had gathered, for no particular purpose, when Lincoln and William
                    Grigsby, after a time, got into a dispute over the ownership of a certain spotted pup. Each alleged
                    that a neighbor had promised to make him a present of this particular pup. The dispute finally
                    assumed the proportions of a quarrel. Grigsby stepped squarely in front of 
                        Lincoln
                     and angrily dared him to fight. Whereupon Lincoln said: "Bill, you know I can
                    lick you, so what's the use of you making such a proposition?" Grigsby, whom it
                    was generally asserted feared no man and was a great fighter, replied: "I know you
                    c'n whip me, but I'll fight you for the dog jest the same." Finally
                    Lincoln said: "I'll tell you what I'll do, Bill. Although I know that pup
                    belongs to me, and you know it too, I'm willing to put up John Johnson here in my place.
                    He's more your size, and whichever whips gets the pup." This was readily agreed to
                    by Grigsby, and "hauling their coats off as  the boys
                    formed a circle, they began the fight." They had not fought long until it became evident to
                    all, and to 
                        Lincoln
                     in particular, that Grigsby was having the best of the argument. Suddenly, without any
                    warning, 
                        Lincoln
                     stepped into the ring, seized Grigsby by the collar and trousers and bodily hurled him
                    over the heads of the crowd. He then "dared the entire Grigsby crowd to come into
                    him." There being no disposition to do so, Lincoln's anger subsided quickly and
                    presently he was laughing and joking.
            Hall and the Gentry brothers asserted that "Abe always acted fair," and they
                    couldn't understand at first why he should interfere as he did in this instance, until it
                    was ascertained subsequently that the pup had in fact been given to 
                        Lincoln
                    , and Grigsby knowing this, had conceived this plan of obtaining it. Both of the Gentrys
                    and Hall stated that this altercation took place on the exact site of the railroad depot at 
                        Lincoln City
                    , which stands one hundred and fifty yards west of the 
                        Lincoln
                     cabin site.
            The assertion of Mr. Lamon in this instance, as well as in others, that "
                        Lincoln
                     drew forth a whiskey bottle and waived it dramatically above his head" on the
                    defeat of Grisby, or that he "was accustomed to take his dram," and such other
                    similar statements, is not at all in accordance with any of the testimony given by
                    Lincoln's early friends. They expressly stated that no such thing transpired during this
                    fight as 
                        Lincoln
                     exhibiting a bottle of whiskey, but they were unanimous in stating that Lincoln never
                    at any time so much as tasted intoxicating liquor of any sort, nor did he use tobacco, either in
                    chewing or smoking.
            It was this same William Grigsby who later became such a warm friend of Lincoln that he offered
                    during the Civil War to whip any man in 
                        Gentryville
                     who was disposed to speak disparagingly of his old friend, "Abe
                    Linkern." Amos Grigsby, brother of William, a short while after the fight, married Sarah
                    Lincoln, sister of Abraham. At this time she was eighteen years of age and her brother was sixteen.
                    While they were very much attached to one another, the Grigsbys did not like young Lincoln by reason
                    of the affair with William, and the wedding was arranged to take place in the two-story log house
                         of the groom's father. In fact, there was to be a
                    double wedding since one of the Grigsby girls was to be married at the same time. Young Lincoln was
                    not privileged to be present and witness the marriage of his only sister in consequence of the
                    trouble aforementioned. 
                        Lincoln
                     meditated revenge for this slight in a manner quite unusual indeed and unheard of in
                    this section. It was as follows:
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     quietly sought an interview with a young man who he knew was an invited guest at the
                    double wedding and requested that he do him a favor. "Certainly, Abe, I'll do
                    anything for you. What is it?" "Well, you know I'm not to be at that
                    wedding. It seems they don't care to have me around for some reason or other, and
                    I've picked on you to look things over and somehow manage to do the honors of conducting
                    the grooms to the bridal chamber." Careful and detailed instruction was given as to
                    diplomatic procedure so that suspicions might not be aroused on the part of any. It appeared that
                    these were carried out to the letter and worked admirably. When, according to the pioneer custom,
                    the grooms were escorted up the perpendicular sassafras ladder in one corner of the room, which led
                    up through a "scuttle hole" in the ceiling to the now darkened bridal chamber on
                    the second floor, there resulted more or less confusion for a time in ascertaining identity just as 
                        Lincoln
                     had planned.
            
               
                        Lincoln
                    , considering this a clever practical joke, wrote an account of the affair in verse,
                    calling the poem "The Chronicles." These verses as recited by Lincoln on the least
                    provocation to all who would give him audience, gave the Grigsbys great offense. When Lincoln
                    ascertained that they were aggrieved, he went to the Grigsby home and disclaimed having any purpose
                    whatever of casting any aspersion upon their character or good name, stating that he only purposed
                    having some fun. He closed by turning over to them the original manuscript containing the
                    objectionable Chronicles, accompanying this action with the promise that so far as he was concerned
                    nothing more would be said concerning them, a promise that he faithfully kept. This generosity of
                    character so appealed to the offended Grigsbys that they all became his friends.
            As a sequel to this incident, it may be stated that James  Gentry,
                    when some reference was made by the writer to the "Chronicles of Reuben," laughed
                    uproariously, and straightway began reciting certain portions of "Abe's
                    poetry" in great glee. Gentry stated that "when Abe wrote his Chronicles they
                    kicked up a big hulla-ba-loo, but finally it all got quiet when Abe handed them over to the
                    Grigsbys."
            Redmond Grigsby was yet living at the time of the interview with Gentry, and in the course of Mr.
                    Gentry's remarks he incidentally mentioned the fact that only the day before this he had
                    met Grigsby and "they fell to talking about this double wedding and the Chronicles in
                    particular." Gentry remarked to Grigsby: "Red, everybody's dead now but
                    you, by gum! I'd let ‘em come out." (Meaning the publication of the
                    Chronicles.) But Mr. Grigsby said: "Jim, there's plenty time fer that
                    yet." It would appear from this remark that the original document was in the possession of
                    Redmond Grigsby, a brother of Aaron. Mr. Grigsby died a short while after this, and what became of
                    the Chronicles, if he did in fact have them in his possession, is not known.
            LINCOLN'S HONESTY AND TRUTHFULNESS
            
                    With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see
                        the right, let us strive on in the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds; to
                        care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan; to do all which
                        may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations.
                
            All of the discussions of Lincoln's life make pointed reference to his uncompromising
                    honesty and truthfulness. So prominent were these traits in his character as to induce his friends
                    to denominate him "Honest Abe" while he was quite young.
            Unfortunately, most of the emphasis has been so placed as to leave the impression upon the minds of
                    our youth that Lincoln learned honesty some time after reaching maturity; leaving the implication
                    that either this trait was not noticed during his youth; or, if so, no reliable and trustworthy
                    evidence of it was obtained, justifying specific mention of it at any length. This attitude is not
                    only unjustifiable, judging by the facts and  evidence testified
                    to by his boyhood associates, but it is quite at variance with all the generally accepted standards
                    and theories of life governing such matters.
            It is, of course, not charged that dishonesty characterized Mr. Lincoln's youth save in the
                    single accusation made by some of the earlier biographers against him in recounting the advice given
                    his flatboat partner, Allen Gentry, to pass counterfeit money for genuine money. When all the
                    circumstances connected with this transaction are known, the inference and implication of doubtful
                    honesty proves to be groundless.
            In the days when Lincoln and Gentry made their celebrated flatboat trip down the
                        Mississippi river "wildcat" money was quite as common as
                    any other, particularly along the 
                        Ohio
                     and Mississippi rivers. Wildcat money was so frequently offered in
                    payment in the smaller transactions at that time that it occasioned no more comment or concern than
                    the depreciated "trade dollar," Canadian quarter or dime did later in this
                    section. Thus, when Lincoln advised the passing of wildcat money received in the course of their
                    bartering during the day, he was but following the custom practiced by the people of that time.
            There never was any occasion for a revolution in Mr. Lincoln's character or a deviation in
                    any particular from his youthful customs, as he did not at any time practice deception or
                    dishonesty. It may be said that whatever he may have learned or acquired in the State of 
                        Illinois
                    , certainly honesty was not learned there. If his associates in that State, noting his
                    steadfast adherence to the old-fashioned trait of honesty, denominated him "Honest
                    Abe," it is but an indication that his early training in the Indiana wilderness was so
                    rooted and grounded in him that he could not only withstand the social, business and political
                    temptations of life in 
                        Illinois
                     as to challenge their admiration; but the inference is that he was much unlike most, if
                    not all, other men in public life at that time.
            Most men of mature years draw heavily upon the teachings of childhood and youth. To put it in a way
                    calculated to meet with general acceptance, what a man becomes in morals and in the practice of the
                    great principles of honesty and truthfulness is largely determined in childhood and young manhood.
                    Never were these teachings better exemplified than in the life of Abraham Lincoln.
            
            When Lincoln, a bearded man, walked down Sangamon river bottom, 
                        Illinois
                    , for the first time, his character was already formed. He brought with him from Indiana
                    his rare wit, humor and inexhaustible fund of anecdotes. He possessed no bad habits. His school days
                    were over. It is true that he took a post-graduate course in Shakespeare and Burns, and when John
                    Calhoun, of Lecompton fame, offered him the position as assistant surveyor, this graduate of the
                    Indiana wilderness, fresh from his reading of the classics—the King James version of the
                    Bible, Aesop's Fables, Lives of 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Washington
                    —reported to Calhoun in just six weeks for duty, having mastered this science
                    in that incredibly short time, to the astonishment of his benefactor.
            One of Lincoln's teachers in Indiana was a man by the name of 
                        Crawford
                    . Lincoln was in his fourteenth year while in attendance upon this particular term. On
                    one occasion the teacher observed that some liberties had been taken with the pair of antlers over
                    the door of the school room, one prong having been broken, and on making this discovery he
                    straightway instituted an inquiry to find the guilty culprit. 
                        Lincoln
                    , being quite tall and seeing this prong presenting a temptation to swing upon it,
                    yielded, with the result that the prong failed to support his weight and fell to the ground. When
                    the irate teacher asked who was guilty, 
                        Lincoln
                     stepped forth and quickly volunteered the information: 
                        I did, sir. I did not mean to do it, but I hung on it and it broke. I wouldn't have
                            done it if I'd a thought it'd a broke.
                    
                
            It is not at all necessary to suppose in attempting to show the honesty and truthfulness of 
                        Lincoln
                     that there were no others in the school at that time who would have done as he did
                    under similar circumstances. Indeed, in every little school-house of the land today there are those
                    who would do this, but since this circumstance did transpire as here related it is important in that
                    it sets forth the inherent trait at such a period in his life.
            One of the neighbors of the Lincolns was Josiah Crawford, for whom young Abraham often worked as a
                    "hired man" and his sister Sarah worked as "hired girl."
                    "Old Cy Crawford,"  as he was usually called,
                    was more or less given to certain peculiarities, being quite presumptuous and so penurious as to be
                    called "tight" or "close" by his neighbors, but withal
                    possessing many splendid traits. He was not an educated man, but being what was called
                    "handy," he was able to do almost anything. He was a pioneer doctor and dentist,
                    and in addition he was a farmer. In this latter capacity he frequently employed Young Lincoln.
            
               
                        Crawford
                     possessed a small library which, to some extent, accounted for whatever superiority he
                    had over some of his neighbors. 
                        Lincoln
                     borrowed all of these books, reading and re-reading some of them, one being
                    Weem's Life of 
                            Washington
                        . It was the custom of 
                        Lincoln
                     to carry a book with him in the fields or in the "clearing," and this
                    practice was not dispensed with even when laboring for a neighbor. At every opportunity, whether at
                    the noon hour or rest, or permitting a "horse to breathe," he brought forth the
                    book to read.
            John Hanks, who lived with the Lincolns from 1823 to 1827, said, as recounted by Mr. Herndon: 
                        When Abe and I returned to the house from work he would go to the cupboard, snatch a piece of
                            cornbread and sit down and read. We grubbed, plowed, mowed and worked together barefooted in
                            the fields. Whenever Abe had a chance in the field while at work, or at the house, he would
                            stop and read. He kept the Bible and Aesop's Fables always in
                            reach and read them over and over again.
                    
                
            He kept up his daily custom of carrying a book with him and reading as he walked, as well as reading
                    until a late hour at night, until established in the practice of his profession. During his boyhood
                    on securing a new book he frequently read until midnight. His artificial light for this purpose was
                    made by gathering dry sticks and splinters and piling them beside the jambs so that when the fire
                    died down he freely laid some of this tinder on the forestic and thus managed to read quite well.
                    One night after having obtained the aforementioned copy of the Life of 
                            Washington
                        
                from 
                        Crawford
                     he read until quite late, and on retiring to the loft he laid the book between two of
                    the logs—the "chinkin and daubin had worn away." While he was wrapped
                    in sleep a rain storm came and greatly damaged the leaves and warped the cover. On making this
                    discovery  the following morning Lincoln was mortified, and
                    realizing the scarcity of books and keenly appreciating their value, he very naturally supposed that
                    Mr. Crawford would be "put out" about it. Nevertheless, he took the damaged
                    treasure home and related somewhat in detail the circumstances of the night before, proposing to do
                    whatever the owner thought was right and proper to make amends for his carelessness. Mr. Crawford
                    was not averse to driving a bargain, for it was his custom with Lincoln "to dock
                    him" when he failed to begin his day's labor early enough or for any cause lost
                    any time. In this instance he proposed that Lincoln "pull fodder for three days and they
                    would call matters even." 
                        Lincoln
                     entered no protest at the time and energetically went to work. In relating this
                    circumstance to a gentleman in 
                        Rockport
                     afterward, he stated: 
                        At the close of the second day my long arms had stripped every blade off old Blue
                            Nose's corn, and I reckon Cy ought to be satisfied; at any rate I am, but I think
                            he was pretty hard on me.
                    
                
            We are indebted to Silas G. Pratt for an incident illustrative of 
                        Lincoln
                    's mingled goodness, truthfulness and honesty: 
                        One morning when Lincoln, with his ax over his shoulder, was going to work in the clearing,
                            his step sister, Matilda Johnson, who had been forbidden by her mother to follow him, slyly
                            and unknown to her mother crept out of the house and ran after him. Lincoln was already a
                            long distance from the house among the trees following a deer path and whistling as he
                            walked along. He, of course, did not know the girl was coming after him, and Matilda ran so
                            softly that she made no noise to attract his attention. When she came up close behind, she
                            made a quick spring and jumped upon his shoulders, holding on with both hands and pressing
                            her knees into his back, thus pulling him quickly to the ground. In falling the sharp ax
                            fell and cut her ankle very badly. As the blood ran out the mischievous Matilda screamed
                            with pain. 
                                Lincoln
                             at once tore off some cloth from the lining of his coat to stop the blood from
                            flowing, and bound up the wound as well as he could. Taking a long breath he said:
                            "Tilda, I am astonished. How could you disobey your mother so?" Tilda only
                            cried in reply, and 
                                Lincoln
                             continued: "What are you going to tell mother about getting
                            hurt?" "Tell her I did it with the ax," she sobbed.
                            "That will be the truth, won't it?" To which 
                                Lincoln
                             replied manfully: "Yes, that's the truth; but it's
                            not all the truth. You tell the whole truth, Tilda, and trust your good mother for the
                            rest." So Tilda went limping home and told her mother all the truth. The good woman
                            felt so sorry for her that she did not even scold her.
                    
                
            
            If, in speaking of honesty, we may make the term so broad as to include not only right dealings in
                    mere money or business transactions, but fair-mindedness and an implied purpose and intentional
                    disposition to be such under trying circumstances, there is much that may be said illustrative of
                    the fact that Lincoln's life was the embodiment of truth and fair-dealing. The boyhood
                    associates of 
                        Lincoln
                     stated that his word was always considered good and that he could be depended upon to
                    do what he agreed to do. He was generally trusted by his neighbors, and if necessity seemed to
                    justify his asking credit, as was sometimes the case, this was granted.
            It was pretty generally conceded, however, by the old neighbors of 
                        Lincoln
                     and others who had personal acquaintance with members of the family concerned in one
                    transaction, that there was one noted exception to the rule. The town of Gentryville was laid out by
                    Mr. Gentry in the year 1824. Gentry was a North Carolinian who settled in this section in the year
                    1818, some two years after the coming of the Lincolns. He was a man of some means for that day, as
                    evidenced in his entering twelve hundred acres of land and founding the town. He established a
                    store, encouraged the purchasing of lots and the erection of houses, and offered certain inducements
                    to artisans and trade-folks so that in a short while the little place became somewhat of a
                    commercial center. Among those who had established themselves in business there was a certain Mr.
                    Jones. On his proving to be prosperous and otherwise possessing advantages over Gentry, overtures
                    were made to him and he accordingly disposed of his business to Gentry. In a short while thereafter
                    he embarked in business again, locating this time a little distance from 
                        Gentryville
                    , but near enough to cause the trade to follow him. On perceiving that the future of the
                    town site was in jeopardy, Gentry proposed to Jones to move again to 
                        Gentryville
                    . This he did, and it was his store that Lincoln frequented on Saturdays, rainy days and
                    in the evenings. Jones was a man of large influence, politically and otherwise. He early professed a
                    great liking for Young Lincoln and freely prophesied on more than one occasion that Lincoln would
                    yet be heard from in the world. He was thought to be rather extravagant in some of his assertions
                    and prophesies, however,  and there is little wonder that the
                    citizens should so think when they heard him venture to assert repeatedly that "
                        Lincoln
                     would some day be President of the 
                        United States
                    ." Jones was a man somewhat after the type of Denton Offut, the storekeeper
                    with whom Lincoln was associated a few years later in 
                        Illinois
                    . In fact, it appears that Lincoln's habit of frequenting these small stores
                    invariably impressed himself so strongly upon the owners as to cause them to employ him. 
                        Lincoln
                     drove a team for Jones, packed and unpacked boxes of goods, butchered and salted pork
                    and at certain times performed some of the more menial services in the store proper such as the
                    transfer of heavy and cumbersome wares from the cellar to the main floor. These labors, however,
                    were not continuous, but merely occasional for a nominal sum as a wage—thirty cents per
                    day being the usual price. Jones was regarded as somewhat of a politician, and was a pronounced
                    Jackson Democrat. At one time he was the only subscriber to the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Journal in this place, and 
                        Lincoln
                     availed himself of the privilege of reading it aloud—a habit which became
                    fixed in him as in many another who was brought up in what was termed "blab
                    schools," where every scholar studied his lesson by reading aloud during
                    "books."
            In later life Lincoln's practice was to read aloud, and he had difficulty in grasping the
                    meaning of the printed page unless his ears heard as well as his eyes saw.
            The fact that Young Lincoln became a "
                        Jackson
                     man" was largely due to the association and influence of storekeeper Jones,
                    and it was from this man that he obtained the History of the 
                            United States
                        
               , one of the few books that had so much to do in shaping his career. Just
                    before the Lincolns left for 
                        Illinois
                     and a short while prior to 
                        Lincoln
                    's reaching his majority, he was in the store observing an extraordinarily
                    large pair of shoes. They were so large as to cause him to think that they would "fit
                    him," and being greatly in need of footwear he asked the privilege of trying them on. This,
                    of course, was granted, and 
                        Lincoln
                     found that they were just his size. He thereupon indicated his desire to purchase them,
                    but stated that he did not have the money then and would not have it until a date which he
                    specified. The storekeeper shook his head and refused the young man the desired credit.
            
            Years went by and Lincoln was to be inaugurated President. Very naturally some of his 
                        Gentryville
                     friends were desirous of witnessing these ceremonies, and a little party of five made
                    the journey to 
                        Washington
                    , among them being Jones, the storekeeper. No opportunity readily presenting itself to
                    meet their old friend until after the inaugural ceremonies were over, they resolved to get in line
                    and meet him at the general reception tendered. This suggestion was acted upon, and by a mere
                    chance, not at all by design, the storekeeper Jones came last. As the first man of the little group
                    approached, 
                        Lincoln
                    , straightway recognizing him, greeted him with a beaming countenance, grasping the
                    proffered hand in both of his and ' saying: "Howdy, Jim." He readily
                    recognized each one as they approached, giving them a very cordial greeting, but when Jones
                    approached he was greeted with silence, although Lincoln shook hands with him. The storekeeper going
                    on the supposition that he was not recognized, exclaimed: "Mr. President, I'm from 
                        Gentryville
                     also. My name is Jones. I reckon you don't remember me." Whereupon
                    Lincoln inclined his body forward until his face was on the same level with the face of Jones, and
                    whispered in the ear of his old friend: "0 yes, Mr. Jones, I remember you very well, and I
                    remember that shoe transaction also," smiling and otherwise giving him evidence of his
                    old-time friendship. It is but just to say that a portion of this story was denied by Jones who said
                    that he never refused 
                        Lincoln
                     the shoes, but that they were turned over to him when Lincoln asked for credit. The
                    supposition is that, on seeing his old friend approaching him, 
                        Lincoln
                     hit upon this plan to have a bit of his old-time sport even if the occasion was an
                    inaugural reception. The story, however, as here recorded, received general credence by the old
                    friends of 
                        Lincoln
                    , and that it took place substantially as here detailed is doubtless true.
            "Nat" Grigsby and the storekeeper Jones later on during the 
                        Lincoln
                     administration called on the President at the 
                        White
                     House. We have the best authority for stating the fact, the occasion and the ludicrous
                    results of that visit—the testimony of both Grigsby and Jones themselves.
                    "Nat" Grigsby and "Blue Nose" 
                        Crawford
                     had been caricatured by Lincoln in some  of his
                    doggerel poetry called the "Chronicles of Reuben." Grigsby, long afterward,
                    confessed that at the time this occasioned considerable feeling on his part against Abe, but after a
                    time all was forgotten. That this was true and that Mr. Lincoln thought quite well of Grigsby is
                    evidenced by a circumstance that transpired on the occasion of Lincoln's visit to 
                        Gentryville
                     during the campaign of 1844. 
                        Lincoln
                     made speeches both at 
                        Gentryville
                     and at Carter's schoolhouse. It was at the latter place that Lincoln, in the
                    midst of his address, recognizing Mr. Grigsby who came in late, exclaimed:
                    "There's Nat." Whereupon he quit the speech and platform and went back to
                    greet his old friend with the old-time warmth and boyish enthusiasm, then returned to the front to
                    continue his speech. Whether it was this circumstance, or the numerous other evidences of 
                        Lincoln
                    's partiality for him that induced him to believe Lincoln, as President, could
                    and would appoint him to some federal position, it is immaterial for our purpose. At any rate,
                    Grigsby was fully persuaded that he was amply competent to serve in some capacity (and he was a man
                    of some ability). He very naturally presumed upon the old-time friendship of 
                        Lincoln
                    , and accordingly called upon Jones and proposed that he accompany him to 
                        Washington
                     on a similar mission in his own behalf. This met with hearty approval on the part of
                    Jones, and preparations were made for the journey. They resolved to see the President in person
                    rather than to make formal application for a place in some other way. At length the two old
                    neighbors of the President appeared at the 
                        White
                     House. Lincoln, being apprised of their presence, although many were in waiting,
                    stepped into the room in which they were seated and greeted them quite as if he had met them at
                    Carter's schoolhouse or Baldwin's blacksmith shop in 
                        Gentryville
                    . Unmindful of who might chance to be in the room or what might be the construction
                    placed upon his democratic demeanor, he said: "Howdy, Nat," and "Howdy,
                    Bill," and otherwise by word and greeting conducted himself much as if he were oblivious of
                    the fact that he was President of the 
                        United States
                    .
            Lincoln was never justly, at any time, accused of being hypocritical, but that he could act the part
                    well calculated to  carry out his purpose is much in evidence in
                    this as in other instances. Major John Hay asserted that Lincoln "was a trimmer the equal
                    of Halifax, but he never trimmed his principles." There is discerned in this little
                    circumstance with his boyhood associates an ability to manage men and deal with difficult situations
                    in a way quite characteristic of him. After the warm greeting and hand-shaking with his old friends,
                    accompanied by such familiarities as "the laying on of hands," and other evidences
                    of appreciation of their visit, he requested that they both accompany him to an adjoining room.
                    Going on the supposition that they were being taken to his private office where they could have the
                    opportunity of presenting their claims, they quickly followed him, and were ushered into a large
                    room where Mrs. Lincoln sat. Neither of them having ever met Mrs. Lincoln, they were accordingly
                    introduced by the President, and at the same time dismissed or disposed of as follows:
                    "Mrs. Lincoln, here are two of my boyhood friends from 
                        Gentryville
                    , Indiana, Mr. Grigsby and Mr. Jones." Whether just at this point there was a
                    sly wink, or some other signal known only to the secret code of the President's family, is,
                    of course, purely in the realm of conjecture, but the preponderance of evidence is much in its
                    favor, for he straightway said after the formal introduction: 
                        Mary, you know I'm pestered and bothered continually by people coming here on the
                            score of old acquaintance, as almost all of them have an ax to grind. They go on the theory
                            that I've got offices to dispense with so numerous that I can give each one of them
                            a place. Now here are two friends that have come to pay me a visit just because they are my
                            friends, and haven't come to ask for any office or place. It is a relief to have
                            this experience. You know the room's full of folks out here (pointing) waiting to
                            see me about something or other, and I want you to see that "Nat" and
                            "Bill" here have a good time while they are with us."
                    
                
            After the first Lady of the Land had given her promise to do as requested, 
                        Lincoln
                     returned to his labors. It is not possible to know whether the President went to his
                    private office and sought relief by giving way to unrestrained laughter or not, but he doubtless
                    consoled himself with the fact that if in the field of diplomacy matters of great moment could
                    always be disposed of as readily as was true in this particular instance,  he had reason to regard himself equal to any exigency that might arise.
                    The two office-seekers, accustomed only to the dames and damsels of 
                        Gentryville
                    , gowned in linsey-wolsey, and whose colloquial speech was quite their own, were
                    suddenly found in the presence of a "fine lady," and there is no occasion for
                    surprise when they asserted that both of them heartily agreed that discretion was the better part of
                    valor and they accordingly beat a hasty retreat, returning to Indiana without so much as mentioning
                    the real object of their visit to the Capital. When twitted about their failure by some of their
                    neighbors, they both confessed that "Abe was too much for them," and especially
                    after he had said what he did to Mrs. Lincoln about his old friends asking for office.
            LINCOLN'S FREEDOM FROM BAD HABITS
            
                    In it we shall find a stronger bondage broken, a viler slavery manumitted, a greater tyrant
                        deposed; and when there shall be neither a slave nor a drunkard on earth, how proud the title of
                        that land which may truly claim to be the birthplace and cradle of both those revolutions that
                        have ended in victory.
                
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     as a youth was raemarably free from bad or vicious habits. He was in general good favor
                    with all of his associates and was dutiful and obedient to his father and mother. His temperamental
                    makeup was such as to win friends and to hold them. He, as has already been indicated, never at any
                    time in his boyhood, used intoxicating liquors, although this custom was generally prevalent. Since
                    Lincoln's habit was to frequent the grocery store in 
                        Gentryville
                     in company with Dennis Hanks, where much drinking was indulged in, his refusal to drink
                    intoxicants is somewhat remarkable. He professed to have a distaste for intoxicants of all sorts,
                    and also abstained as a matter of principle. In later life he stated that "he had no desire
                    for intoxicating liquors and did not care to associate with drinking men." His terrible
                    arraignment of the liquor traffic before the Washingtonian society is familiar to all, and it is
                    highly probable that his strong convictions expressed in later years on that subject were to some
                    extent formed by noting, as he did while a resident at 
                        Gentryville
                    , the evil effects of its use by many of his associates.
            
            Wesley Hall stated that his father frequently employed both the elder Lincoln and his son Abraham to
                    labor for him as carpenters as well as to perform work incident to the successful operation of a
                    tanyard. Hall asserted that Young Lincoln frequently pushed the plane at a workbench preparing
                    planks for the father's use in the construction of cupboards and other pieces of household
                    furniture. In this connection Hall laughingly recalled a boyish act of his. On one occasion when
                    Abraham was laboring at the bench with the plane, Hall crawled beneath the long bench and lay down
                    upon his back just opposite 
                        Lincoln
                    's feet. He was peculiarly struck with the great length of the young
                    carpenter's shoes, and reaching forth he selected a wooden ribbon and was busily engaged in
                    measuring the foot when Lincoln noticed this performance and "yanked him out."
            In the performance of the work connected with the tannery the elder Hall frequently employed a number
                    of men, and it was the custom, when weather permitted, to take the noon meal in the grove near the
                    tanyard rather than to go to the house. Hall stated that when the food had been made ready and
                    spread out on a rude table, and dinner was announced, Abe invariably walked to a certain large
                    forest tree whose roots had grown in such a manner as to form a sort of rustic bench. There seating
                    himself, leaning back against the trunk, he drew forth from the folds of his loose fitting waumus or
                    blouse a book and began to read, rather than go to the table as the other men did to eat. When asked
                    if Lincoln did not also eat the noon meal, and why he did not do so with the others, he replied:
                        
                        Certainly Abe et dinner, but don't you know he never drank, and them times the black
                            bottle would be passed around purty often, so Abe would say to me "You see, Wesley,
                            I don't drink and the rest of the men do, and if I was to eat when they do and not
                            drink with them, they'd think may be I was smart, and so I jest hit upon this plan
                            of bringing along my book with me and reading while they eat. I eat after they get
                            through—in plenty time to go to work when they do, and that a way I git to read
                            some and at the same time I don't go against a custom that they think is all right
                            even if I don't.
                    
                
            A diligent inquiry among Lincoln's boyhood friends for everything characteristic or peculiar
                    to him elicited the fact among other things that he did not indulge in intemperate  language. It might be alleged that there was an exception in the
                    frequent use of the by-word "I jings," which seems to have followed him by way of 
                        Illinois
                     to the 
                        White
                     House.
            That Young Lincoln was extremely awkward and homely to a marked degree is evidenced by the testimony
                    of all of his early friends. Being seated his stature did not impress itself, but a close observer
                    would note that his lower extremities were of such proportions that a marble or ball placed upon his
                    knee would roll toward the body. His gait was exceptional and peculiar to him. He made rather long
                    strides as compared to many tall men who, in attemptong to keep step, form the habit of a jerky,
                    premature stride. 
                        Lincoln
                     lifted his feet squarely from the ground and in like manner planted them, so that the
                    foot did not bend at the toes or the weight of the body rest momentarily upon the heel; however, he
                    was slightly pigeon-toed. His walk therefore, while not to say cunning, was stealthy, and possessing
                    great bodily vigor he could walk long distances in a short while.
            Mrs. Polly Agnew, whose maiden name was Richardson, and who was the mother of a number of children,
                    some of whom became men of considerable local prominence—among whom was Doctor Mason, a
                    physician well-known in his day throughout southern Indiana—often related a circumstance
                    that took place on her arrival in Indiana, in which 
                        Lincoln
                     bore a conspicuous part, and which furnishes a splendid field for a painter. The
                    Richardsons were pioneers in 
                        Spencer county
                    , floating down the Ohio river in a boat and landing at the site of
                    the present beautiful town of 
                        Grandview
                    . Their arrival was sometime after the coming of the Lincolns. The landing had been
                    effected, and they desired to penetrate the interior some distance before locating. They had their
                    ox-teams and wagon (save for the wheels), so the father and son felled a large gum tree, and sawing
                    off blocks or circular slabs of such thickness as would prove suitable for wheels, they soon were
                    ready to begin their journey through the unknown wilderness. No white man had as yet made settlement
                    in this part of the country. The wagon was loaded with bedding, cooking utensils and such other
                    things as they would at first need, and with the mother and daughter, Polly, the narrator of the
                    incident  they started on their tedious way, leaving behind them
                    many things in the boat for which they had to make a second trip. The choice of a farm location was
                    by midday decided upon. In the midst of the great forest they came upon a cluster of trees so
                    situated as to enable them by cutting brush and laying these on poles placed in forks to erect a
                    brush lean-to or brush house, which would serve them temporarily. The mother and daughter were left
                    in the midst of the great forest alone while the men returned to the boat for another load. A storm
                    came up, nightfall was approaching, and the wagon had not returned. In the midst of their anxiety,
                    there suddenly appeared out of the forest a stranger of gigantic stature, dressed in coon-skin cap,
                    hunting shirt and buckskin breeches, and bearing a gun. He came up smiling and, by way of
                    explanation for his presence, stated that he lived a short distance north, and having just learned
                    that a new family was moving into the community he had come down to render any service needed. When
                    informed by Mrs. Richardson that the men folks had gone to the river for another load and were
                    expected to return at any time, the stranger remarked: "Well, ladies, I'm quite
                    sure they cannot get back tonight for the rain has interfered, and so I'll just stay with
                    you and see that no harm comes to you during the night."
            This information and proffered help was anything but reassuring to the frightened ladies. The tall
                    stranger, acting upon his own suggestion, now stepped to a large tree fronting the lean-to, and
                    seating himself with the gun placed across his lap, leaned against the trunk, thus evidencing his
                    disposition to remain on guard. Seeing this, Mrs. Richardson stepped into the brush house and she
                    and the daughter held a whispered consultation. It was agreed that while the stranger might prove to
                    be more dangerous than any foe of the woods, yet the mother suggested that "he had a good
                    face." After a few moments in conversation they observed that the stranger had laid down
                    his gun and began dragging a large limb toward the brush house. The mother and daughter both
                    ventured out near him and requested to know what he meant by such procedure. Whereupon he smiled and
                    said: "Ladies, the woods around here are full of wolves and bears, and we've got
                    to have a bonfire  tonight or they might give trouble."
                    When the mother remarked that they entertained no fear of wolves, the man laughed right heartily and
                    said: "You just wait and we'll see if there isn't about two women around
                    here somewhere that'll get pretty badly scared before long." With that remark he
                    began the search for dry branches and limbs of fallen trees, and this he continued doing until there
                    was collected quite a pile.
            When darkness had settled down over them and the wagon had not returned as the stranger had ventured
                    to prophesy, the ladies became more or less reconciled to the presence of the man. He accepted the
                    food they prepared, but refused to go into the lean-to. An hour or so had passed, when the stranger,
                    who all this time was watched from within with some remaining suspicion, called to them that they
                    need have no fears of wolves who by this time were howling in the distance. Ere long these denizens
                    of the night ventured quite near, and the ladies, thoroughly frightened, requested that he come into
                    the lean-to. The stranger then approached the bonfire and requested Mrs. Richardson and her daughter
                    to "step out and take a look at the green-eyes." This they did, and the daughter
                    exclaimed in her fright: "Why, mother, there is a thousand of them. What would we have done
                    alone?" The tall stranger laughed and said, addressing the young lady: "Miss,
                    there is not more than a half dozen of the varmints, and every one of them is a coward. Now you just
                    see if they are not." Taking a fire brand and waving it vigorously, the "green
                    eyes" vanished and the howling was heard in the distance. The manifest danger confronting
                    the ladies by the presence of such animals drew them nearer to their protector, and they acted on
                    his suggestion to "go in and try and get some sleep while he kept watch." When
                    morning broke the stranger announced his intention of returning home, saying as he started:
                    "I'll find out today if your men folks get back all right, which I reckon they
                    will, but if they don't, I'll be back here tonight and we'll keep the
                    ‘thousand pairs of green eyes’ at a safe distance."
            This was the introduction the Richardson family had to the future President, for the tall stranger
                    who kept watch through the night was Abraham Lincoln. The Richardsons and the Lincoins  became fast friends. It was William Richardson who stated that on one
                    occasion when they were preparing to build a corn crib, and some heavy pieces of timber were to be
                    put in place, the men engaged in doing this were making hand spikes with which to carry them. 
                        Lincoln
                     chanced to come up and asked what they were going to do with hand spikes. When informed
                    that they were being prepared to carry the heavy timbers 
                        Lincoln
                     remarked that he could shoulder and carry the sticks himself, and at once acting upon
                    the suggestion he actually performed the feat unaided. Richardson believed that it would have taken
                    the combined strength of three or four men to do what Lincoln did.
            It was this same Richardson who related another circumstance indicating the phenomenal strength of 
                        Lincoln
                    . A chicken house was to be moved and some preparation was being made to do this when
                    Lincoln picked it up bodily and carried it for some distance. Richardson thought that it
                    "weighed at least six hundred pounds, and maybe more."
            Whether it was this romantic meeting of Polly Richardson in the brush lean-to, or whether it was due
                    to certain traits of character discerned in her by Lincoln, particularly her considerate kindness of
                    heart in befriending him in certain ways, that attracted him, in any case he often "kept
                    company with her." Aunt Polly, as she was generally called, was a lady of more than average
                    intelligence. While she was not educated, yet in her use of language this was not particularly
                    noticeable. She was never any more delighted than when surrounded by those who were anxious to know
                    of some of her pioneer experiences, and particularly those pertaining to 
                        Lincoln
                    . She often told of being accompanied by Lincoln to spelling bees, play parties, and to
                    church, and even asserted that she was 
                        Lincoln
                    's first sweetheart. If there be any reluctance on the part of anyone to accord
                    this rather enviable distinction to the old lady who thus made the claim, it may be said in her
                    behalf that her frankness in relating certain circumstances pertaining to this, and the regret
                    occasioned by not having wisdom enough to foresee in her girlhood Lincoln's great career
                    may to some extent plead more eloquently than any mere statement of fact by the writer.
            
            
                    Yes, I was Abe's first sweetheart,
                    He'd take me to spelling bees and play parties and to meetin' and the like, but
                        still I can't say that I wanted him to go with me though. Still Abe was always mighty
                        good, and I never found any fault with him excepting he was so tall and awkward. All the young
                        girls my age made fun of Abe. They'd laugh at him right before his face, but Abe never
                        ‘peared to care. He was so good and he'd just laugh with them. Abe tried to
                        go with some of them, but no sir-ee, they'd give him the mitten every time, just
                        because he was as I say so tall and gawky, and it was mighty awkward I can tell you trying to
                        keep company with a fellow as tall as Abe was. But still Abe was always so good and kind I never
                        sacked him, but bein's I didn't have no other company them days when us young
                        folks would all start to meetin' or somewhere else that away, I'd let Abe take
                        me. I'd sometimes get right put out the way some of the girls treated him, a laughing
                        and saying things, and so when we'd get off to ourselves I'd give them a piece
                        of my mind about it. And then they'd all say that it is too bad the way we do, because
                        Abe's so good, but they'd appear to forget all about it, for the very next
                        time they'd do the same way. Abe wanted me to marry him, but I refused. I suppose if I
                        had known he was to be President some day, I'd a took him.
                
            The writer was once a schoolmaster, and was again and again made to think of 
                        Lincoln
                     on daily seeing the children of the daughter of Colonel Lehmonowsky, one of
                    Napoleon's old soldiers. The oldest son, Adam, was six feet and five inches in height;
                    Charles, six feet and four inches; John, six feet and three inches; Anna, five feet and eleven
                    inches; Sallie, five feet and nine inches, and Joseph, the baby, at fifteen years of age was six
                    feet and six inches! This family was remarkable not only for their great stature, but were giants
                    mentally as well. The extreme stature of the youngest member, his shuffling, shambling gait, and
                    great good nature, with some degree of humor and wit, reminded one continually of 
                        Lincoln
                    .
            Not far from where Lincoln was reared there occurred a wedding some years since that made the story
                    of 
                        Lincoln
                    's first sweetheart seem all the more plausible, especially that part which
                    relates to his great stature and awkwardness.
            A veritable son of Anak, six feet and six inches in stature, married a diminutive little lady four
                    feet and six tall. The nuptial bands were solemnized in a "meeting house" in the
                    presence of the entire countryside. The wedding was quite simple throughout. There were no flower
                    girls, no best man nor bridesmaids; no soloist sang "O, promise me," nor did the
                         bride reach the Hymeneal Altar leaning on the arm of her
                    father, keeping step to the strains of Mendelssohn's Wedding March. Instead, at the
                    appointed hour, which followed the sermon, the bride and groom came down the center aisle
                    unattended; the groom making long, ungainly strides and the bride holding on to his arm akimbo with
                    the tip of her fingers, while some wag in the choir who had a fine sense of appropriateness pitched
                    the old time camp meeting hymn, "Leaning on the Everlasting Arms," and by the time
                    the happy, but somewhat embarrassed couple reached the chancel, the choir lustily joined in the
                    chorus.
            While Lincoln was acting as ferryman at the mouth of 
                        Anderson
                     creek, a corn husking took place in the neighborhood which he of course attended. At
                    such times, as at log rollings and raisings, the work was divided equally into two parts and
                    captains elected, who "chose up", thus dividing the crowd preparatory to a race.
                    On the particular occasion above referred to, 
                        Lincoln
                     while busily husking away, intent on making his side "beat", kept up
                    a running fire of humorous remarks at the expense of the other side, directing his remarks toward
                    one man. This individual, not possessing a temperamental make-up such as to endure this long,
                    accordingly gave way to his anger and hurled an ear of corn at 
                        Lincoln
                     across the rail that divided the pile of corn. Taking good aim he threw the hard, horny
                    nub at 
                        Lincoln
                    , striking him full in the breast and cutting such a gash as to leave a scar which 
                        Lincoln
                     carried to his grave. Lincoln did not reply in kind against his assailant, but his
                    anger arose.
            There were some customs more or less peculiar to this part of the State in 
                        Lincoln
                    's day, continuing for years thereafter, and among these was the celebration of
                    the New Year. The ceremony, while lacking the refinement and more poetic sentiments usually supposed
                    to have attended the Yuletide in northern Europe, yet considering that it was a backwoods custom
                    during the holiday week the method of celebration possessed a sense of appropriateness. At the
                    midnight hour, just as the old year was dying and the New Year about to be ushered in, large numbers
                    of men and boys with firearms assembled before a farm residence, and without any warning a voice
                    began reciting,  rather stump fashion, a bit of crude verse which
                    was called "the New Year's Speech." The person chosen to recite this was
                    usually one possessing the gift of "oratory." Knowing that Lincoln was much given
                    to public exhibitions and disposed to make addresses on numerous occasions, it was presumed that he
                    frequently made the New Year's Speech. This fact, however, was not certainly established.
                    Since the custom of the pioneers has passed away, with many other things peculiar to them, the New
                    Year's Speech brought from the South is here given: 
                        Awake! Awake! my neighbor dear And to my wish pray lend an ear. The New Year is now at your
                            door, The Old Year is past and comes no more; And I for you wish a Happy Year That you from
                            bad luck may keep clear; That your family, and all the rest May with content be ever blest.
                            That you may be free and able To feed the hungry at your table; That your barns and all your
                            cribs May with much, grain be stocked Your fields and meadows handsomely flocked And
                            scarcity not be known. But mind there is the Blessed Hand Who gives and takes at His
                            command. But now before I make an end, For too much time I cannot spend, Shall I salute you
                            with my gun, Or would you wish the report to shun?
                    
            
            Just here the speaker paused and if granted permission to fire his gun, the speech was resumed as
                    follows: 
                        Now, since you gave me leave, I do now here declare The noise shall sound throughout the air,
                            Sausage and pudding will be right To satisfy our appetite. Whiskey Bounce or Apple Brandy,
                            Or any liquor that comes handy. And we will receive it with thanks to thine And this is the
                            end and wish of mine.
                    
            
            
            Just as the speech was finished a volley or two was fired, and when ample justice had been done to
                    sausage and pudding, as well as satisfying the thirst, the guns were reloaded and another house
                    sought. This was kept up throughout the remainder of the night, the speech being repeated at each
                    place.
            LINCOLN'S ATTITUDE TOWARD THE CHURCH AND RELIGION
            
                    Nobly sustained as the government has been by all the churches, I would utter nothing which might
                        in the least appear invidious against any. * * * God bless all
                        the churches, and blessed be God who in this great trial giveth us the churches.
                
            During Mr. Lincoln's early life he was disposed more or less toward fatalism, not that there
                    was any one act of his, or any single utterance by which this fact could be established, so much as
                    there was discerned an approach toward all undertakings in life with this conviction dogging his
                    footsteps. These fatalistic beliefs were so general among the people of that day as to include
                    practically all.
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     seems to have yielded so far to the ultra Calvinistic teachings characterizing the
                    pulpit efforts and emphasis of that day as to become more or less submissive to what was conceded to
                    be the stern and inevitable decrees of Fate. This strange belief must not be confounded with that
                    bold and open opposition to religious faith, as was the boast of some, but was in fact a religious
                    and Christian interpretation of the teachings of the scriptures, especially peculiar to the
                    primitive Baptists.
            Lincoln was not a communicant of the Little Pigeon Baptist church, although his father, mother and
                    sister were; likewise the Johnsons, his step-sisters and step-brother. His father and mother united
                    with this church by letter, thus indicating their connection with the church in 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            While Lincoln was more or less indoctrinated with the fatalistic tendencies of a theology generally
                    prevalent at the same time he was not at all disposed to accept the common literal interpretation of
                    the Scriptures and in consequence he held aloof from formal union with the church.
            
            That we may more fully appreciate to what extent some of these teachings influenced the parishioners,
                    a circumstance may be detailed that transpired in this region where 
                        Lincoln
                     reached his majority, although many years after; but it will perhaps serve quite well
                    by way of illustration to show this same religious emphasis lingering many decades later, and for
                    that matter may yet be found in this region as well as elsewhere.
            An aged man, just two years younger than 
                        Lincoln
                     (well known to the writer) who was much given to theological disputation, gave as his
                    belief that "what is to be will be, even if it never comes to pass;" that
                    "God had decreed and foreordained certain things," and they "were bound
                    to come to pass;" that there was no use to flee from imminent danger since each one of us
                    was to die in a certain way, at a certain time, and no effort on our part could possibly prevent
                    this. If we were to be drowned, or shot, or die of disease, then no matter what might befall us
                    prior to the appointed hour this event would eventually take place according to Divine appointment.
            This particular gentleman was quite aged when the horse-power threshing machine was succeeded by the
                    steam thresher. A large crowd had gathered to witness the strange engine, and while many of them
                    were gathered about it the water began foaming. This circumstance alarmed the engineer who was
                    anything else but expert, and he hurriedly indicated his fears by announcing his intention of
                    reaching a point of safety. Acting upon his better judgment he started at a lively pace out into an
                    adjoining field, and without any need of further urging when the crowd witnessed his flight they all
                    joined in. The old brother of fatalistic beliefs brought up the rear, by reason of infirmities of
                    age and not because of any wish to be found in the extreme rear. After a safe distance had been
                    reached and sufficient time had elapsed to allow all danger to pass, the engineer ventured back to
                    his post again and pretty soon he announced that the "Iron Horse was all right."
                    Whereupon certain adherents of the Methodist faith, who had been again and again subjected to
                    humiliation and defeat by the superior ability of the  old
                    Baptist brother to argue, now turned upon him mercilessly. After a good-natured laugh had been
                    indulged in at his expense, the old gentleman remarked: "I've got as good a
                    Baptist heart in me as any man, but I've got a cowardly pair of Methodist legs and they run
                    away with me."
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     would have enjoyed the laugh at the old Baptist brother's expense but the
                    fatalistic teachings so possessed him that he would have still found a lurking belief that all such
                    events were predetermined, and that this grip of Fate possessed us all. Later in life he threw off
                    the major portion of these beliefs, but not all of them.
            He retained the basic principle of that theology which taught the wholesome doctrine that
                    "the Almighty hath his purposes." Not only did he believe that "if we did
                    not do right, God was going to let us go our own way to ruin," but expressed the belief
                    that "the Almighty was going to compel us to do right in order that he might destroy
                    slavery, give success to our arms, and maintain our unity as a nation." He further said:
                        
                        I do not believe that He will do these things so much because we desire them as that they
                            accord with His plans of dealing with this nation. I think He means that we shall do more
                            than we have yet done in furtherance of His plans, and He will open the way for our doing
                            it. I have felt His hand upon me in great trials and submitted to His guidance, and I trust
                            that as He shall further open the way I will be ready to walk therein, relying on His Help
                            and trusting in His Goodness and wisdom.
                    
                
            It is a small matter as to what particular creed or sect this theology might properly belong, as
                    compared to the greater fact that he had thrown himself fully upon the Almighty, and in so doing he
                    worthily took his place along side of Moses, Joshua and Paul.
            His early theology made the heavens brass and the unchanging decrees made God stern, exacting and
                    demanding justice. His later faith was so modified by sorrows and trials as to believe in the
                    efficacy of prayer, and he came to see God's beneficence and mercy mingled with His
                    justice. Lincoln's daily habit from early youth was to read the Scriptures and give himself
                    to prayer. It would appear that this fact and the sentiment and spirit of some of his great State
                    papers  would be quite sufficient to have prevented Ingersol and
                    others possessing liberalistic views to assert, as they were accustomed to do, that he was an
                    unbeliever.
            That Lincoln, after reaching 
                        Illinois
                    , passed through a period of religious doubt, even to the extent of questioning the
                    authenticity of the Bible and denying the divinity and sonship of Christ, is undoubtedly true.
                    However, there was nothing ever uttered by him either in any public manner or in private
                    conversation while a resident of Indiana that even so much as indicated any liberalistic views or
                    tendencies. He made no pretentions, however, of being a Christian during his youth; that is, he made
                    no public profession, and was not regarded as such by his associates. Mr. Lincoln certainly was not
                    a Christian in the orthodox sense until sometime after reaching the 
                        White
                     House, if indeed he ever became such as measured by certain formulas. Herndon, Colonel
                    Lamon and Major John Hay all stoutly maintained that he never changed his religious beliefs at all.
            In making the simple statement that Young Lincoln was not a Christian, nor so regarded by his
                    associates, it would be altogether misleading unless it be properly understood. Their standards and
                    his for presuming upon such a claim were of course measured by the practice of the local church in
                    demanding the observance of certain forms and subscribing to certain tenets. It was, of course, not
                    allowed that any one could be so presumptuous as to set forth the claim that he was a Christian,
                    independent of these. 
                        Lincoln
                     not having done this was, of course, not considered as being a Christian.
            It may be truly said, without casting any aspersion upon the character and profession of some, that
                    there were others, indeed many, who composed the membership of Little Pigeon Baptist church in 
                        Lincoln
                    's day who possessed doubtful morality; certainly they failed to measure up to
                    the requirements of Christian standards of living generally in vogue today. It is not charged that
                    gross and flagrant wrongdoing characterized any one of them, but it is claimed that delinquencies in
                    many matters were the rule.
            The ministry themselves were often indeed quite generally given to dram drinking, and certainly this
                    was true of  substantially all the parishioners—women
                    as well as men. It will be seen, therefore, that these well-meaning pioneers hedged up the door of
                    entrance into the kingdom by erroneous theological emphasis upon some matters by demanding of all
                    who sought fellowship with them that they subscribe to these, but too often their own delinquencies
                    and shortcomings were such as to be only too painfully apparent.
            
               
                        Lincoln
                    , given to approaching any and all things along lines of reason, could not fail to note
                    the inconsistencies in profession and practice. Possessing morals quite beyond most people,
                    abstaining from the use of intoxicants and tobacco, temperate in speech and painstakingly honest and
                    truthful, given to reading the Bible daily, and regarded as possessing such a wholesome amount of
                    common sense and sound judgment as to be selected to adjudicate all differences arising among his
                    fellows, it may therefore be seen that while Lincoln made no profession of religious faith in
                    conformity to the standards of the time, yet his character was quite beyond that of others.
            For this youth, who if not educated in the ordinary acceptation of the term, possessed more knowledge
                    even then perhaps than most of us are ready to allow, and being acquainted for instance, as we know
                    that Lincoln was, with the movement of the heavenly bodies, and then to hear in the Sunday sermon
                    the maledictions of Heaven hurled at "eddicated" folks who presumed to think that
                    the earth was round, that it "revolved upon its axle tree," and similar
                    animadversions, one can deeply sympathize with a disposition to refrain from formal union with such
                    a class.
            Again, for Young Lincoln to assemble with these worshippers in Little Pigeon church; the preacher and
                    people to engage as they often did in a give and take sort of fashion in the coarse, crude jokes of
                    doubtful propriety anywhere—much less in a place of worship—hurling at one
                    another, albeit good-naturedly, hilarious repartee and scintillating witticisms better suited to the
                    school house debates; and when the minister suggested that it was time for worship, for some old
                    brother to start the hymn, "How Tedious and Tasteless the Hours," pitching it in a
                    strange key, putting in  an unconscionable number of quarter and
                    half rests, and then for the leader, perhaps, at the close of the stanza to expectorate his ambier
                    in a belated sort of manner, no matter where, preparatory to another effort; and when that was
                    finished and the sermon was entered upon, with all of the vials of wrath poured forth, and anathemas
                    heaped upon the heads of offenders (as was often the case) in such a fashion as to indicate
                    enjoyment in anticipation, with a great deal of sound and little sense; therefore, for a youth of 
                        Lincoln
                    's purity of character and sense of propriety, faculty of reasoning and freedom
                    from such habits above referred to, to refrain from formal union with the church is after all not a
                    thing to excite wonder or provoke harsh criticism.
            In calling attention to some of the foregoing things peculiar to the pioneer days generally
                    prevailing, and even today found in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , there is no disposition to excuse Mr. Lincoln from the mistake certainly chargeable to
                    him of refraining from formal union with the church at a later period. It is hoped that the
                    treatment here offered concerning the crude manner of worship and erroneous emphasis of the
                    primitive Baptists will not be taken as an intentional slight upon that branch of the church. (The
                    writer's forebears were of that faith.) While some justification for young
                    Lincoln's attitude toward this class is here set forth, yet it is manifestly true that this
                    particular church so generally prevalent in large sections of the country during the formative
                    period, furnished the sole means of worship, and so administered to the spiritual needs of the
                    people as abundantly to justify its existence.
            The question of Mr. Lincoln's religious attitude later in life has provoked considerable
                    discussion. Substantially all creeds, like all political parties, have claimed him. Those
                    entertaining liberalistic views have been quite as free as any in asserting the claim that Lincoln
                    was of their number. This was the boast of Colonel Ingersol, of agnostic fame. Mr. Herndon, his law
                    partner, said that his religious faith was best represented by the teachings of Theodore Parker; and
                    he and others possessing religious beliefs that classed them as deists were disposed to claim Mr.
                    Lincoln as possessing a  like faith. This class in particular
                    have challenged those who claim Mr. Lincoln as a Christian to point out in all of his utterances at
                    any time a sentence where the name of Jesus Christ was used. This attitude is wholly unworthy of
                    such, men as Herndon, Lamon and others. 
                        Lincoln
                     told his particular friend, Bishop Simpson, that he did pass through a period of doubt
                    and distrust of the Scriptures, but that he later came to see the folly of such. It is a noteworthy
                    fact, however, that Mr. Lincoln's language in reference to Deity was such as to give no
                    offense to any faith or creed.
            It is believed that no one today would be disposed to undertake the hopeless and thankless task of
                    attempting to substantiate the claim that Mr. Lincoln was not a Christian in view of all the
                    evidence at hand to the contrary. With a sincere purpose of doing the right as "God gave
                    him to see the right," far removed as he was above the loose morality of strong partisan
                    politics, refusing as he did repeatedly to be governed by notable examples of expediency, and mere
                    conventionalities; absolutely unmindful of probable accusations in his departure from an age-long
                    custom of indirection in diplomacy; implicitly trusting in the plain people; relying upon the
                    "gracious favor of Almighty God," with no disposition at any time to substitute
                    expediency for conscience; willing rather to lose popular applause or any mere temporary advantage
                    than even to appear to take liberties with possible success by a firm adherence to the eternal
                    principles of justice and truth; with a sublime patience and unexampled fortitude, he refused to be
                    moved by the clamor of public opinion.
            He was a statesman without craft; a politician without cunning; a great man with many virtues and no
                    vices; a ruler without the arrogancy of pride and the bigotry of power; ambitious without mere
                    selfish personal gratification, and successful without becoming vain-glorious. If that Hebrew
                    lawgiver and leader, Moses, in that unprecedented wilderness march with a horde of newly liberated
                    slaves, felt that faith was depleted or courage run low, he could and did betimes climb the mountain
                    stairway and cry to the God of battles, and Jehovah came down "in trailing clouds of
                    Glory;" or if he were harassed by the pursuing foe, or flanked by fiery  serpents, he could afford to be content, for was not the Almighty
                    himself on the picket line in a cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night? But not so this later
                    liberator whose tall form was stooping under the terrible burdens, both North and South. What wonder
                    that betimes we see him on his knees in the 
                        White
                     House in prayer with Bishop Simpson, or, as when Lee flushed with victory on the gory
                    fields of Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville turned his victorious legions north once more, 
                        Lincoln
                     fell upon his face and cried to the God of Battles: "This is your war. The
                    North can't, stand another Chancellorsville. You stand by our boys at 
                        Gettysburg
                     and I'll stand by you;" and he did.
            YOUNG LINCOLN ON THE STUMP
            
                    My opinion is that no State can in any way lawfully get out of the 
                            Union
                        . It is the duty of the President to run the machine as it is. I reckon that it will
                        be some time before the front door sets up house keeping on its own account.
                
            The boyhood friends of 
                        Lincoln
                     were quite pronounced in stating that while Lincoln was ever ready to enter into all of
                    their boyish sports, especially to accompany them to any place where there was a crowd, he could not
                    be induced either to play, fish, or accompany them on any expedition of any character if he had in
                    his possession a new book. 
                        Lincoln
                     himself, in later life said that he borrowed all the books to be found for a radius of
                    fifty miles. His habit was to commit to memory such portions as particularly pleased him, making
                    copious notes on paper, if he had it, but if he did not (as was frequently the case) he made free
                    use of boards, the wooden fire shovel or any smooth surface presenting itself. He was an omnivorous
                    reader, devouring anything offered. He regularly borrowed the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Journal from Jones, the storekeeper, and a temperance paper and religious
                    publication from a neighbor by the name of Woods. 
                        Lincoln
                     had strong convictions on the subject of temperance, and in reading the publication
                    borrowed from Woods was encouraged to commit some of his own thoughts to paper. He took this to his
                    old friend and was pleased when "Uncle Woods" said that  "for sound sense it was better than anything in the
                    paper." Woods in turn showed the manuscript to a Baptist preacher who was so delighted with
                    it as to believe that it was beyond anything found in the temperance journal, and
                    ‘proposed sending it to the editor at some point in 
                        Ohio
                    . It is said that this article was accepted and appeared in the paper, to the great
                    delight of 
                        Lincoln
                     as well as of his patron and friend, Woods.
            Succeeding so well in this venture, he attempted a political treatment, taking as his theme, National
                    Politics. The subject doubtless suggested itself to him on reading the 
                        Louisville
                     paper. This manuscript was submitted to his old friend Woods, as before, who showed it
                    to Judge John Pitcher, an attorney residing at 
                        Rockport
                    . Pitcher on reading the' article exclaimed: "The world can't
                    beat it." This remark greatly encouraged Young Lincoln, and he journeyed to 
                        Rockport
                     to call upon Pitcher at his office. It is claimed that subsequently Pitcher loaned 
                        Lincoln
                     law books, and showed him considerable attention, such as "drawing him
                    out" in conversation on finding him a great talker and quite original in his ideas and
                    methods of investigation.
            The essay on National Politics, while not preserved entire, has been in part, and from these
                    sentences some notion may be formed as to 
                        Lincoln
                    's ideas at that early period: 
                        The American government is the best form of government for an intelligent people; it ought to
                            be kept sound and preserved forever. * * * General
                            education should be fostered and carried all over the country; and the constitution should
                            be saved, the 
                                Union
                             perpetuated and the laws revered, respected and enforced.
                    
                
            
               
                        Lincoln
                    's plea for educational advantages is pathetic when his own disadvantages were
                    so marked.
            Among those pioneers in this section who, after attaining old age, were rich in the remembrances of
                    former years, was Captain John LaMar. The LaMars were among the first settlers in this part of the
                    State. Captain LaMar witnessed the killing of the last Indian by the whites in this region, there
                    having been more or less trouble between the two races prior to the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     as well as such minor engagements as the Pigeon Roost Massacre. However, by the time
                         the Lincolns settled here the Indians had nearly all left
                    this section. The writer had as a parishioner in his church, Mrs. LaMar, a lady four years younger
                    than Mr. Lincoln, and being a neighbor, of course knew him quite well. Captain LaMar, on one
                    occasion, was riding to mill with his father along the road leading past the 
                        Lincoln
                     cabin. They observed a boy perched upon the top of a staked-and-ridered fence, reading
                    and so intently engaged that he did not notice their approach. The elder LaMar was so impressed with
                    this fact that he remarked to his son: 
                        John, look at that boy yonder! You mark my words, he will make a smart man out of himself. I
                            may not see it, but you see if my words don't come true.
                    
                
            Captain LaMar lived to witness the fulfillment of his father's prophesy. He was present on
                    the occasion of the unveiling of the Nancy Hanks monument in 1902.
            "Nat" Grigsby said: 
                        Lincoln was always at school quite early and attended to his studies diligently. He always
                            stood at the head of his class and passed the rest of us rapidly in his studies. He lost no
                            time at home, and when he was not at work he was at his books.
                    
                
            The schoolmates of 
                        Lincoln
                     stated that he was never rude on the playground, and was usually made choice of when an
                    arbiter was needed in adjusting difficulties between boys of his age and size. When his decision was
                    given, it put an end to the trouble.
            In an interview with Dennis Hanks by Mr. Herndon, the former said: 
                        We learned by sight, scent and hearing. We heard all that was said and talked over and over
                            the questions heard, and wore them slick and greasy and threadbare. We went to hear
                            political and other speeches, and to such gatherings as you do now. We would hear all sides
                            and opinions and talk them over, discuss them, agreeing or disagreeing. Abe was a cheerful
                            boy. Sometimes he would get sad, but not very often. He was always reading, scribbling,
                            ciphering and writing poetry.
                    
                
            Miss Roby, who married Allen Gentry, the young man with whom 
                        Lincoln
                     made the celebrated flatboat trip down the Mississippi river, said
                    that she was at Gentry's Landing  while this boat was
                    being loaded preparatory to making the southern journey. In speaking of 
                        Lincoln
                     at this time she said: "He was long, thin and gawky, his skin having the
                    appearance of being dried up and shriveled." One evening as they sat on the edge of the
                    boat with their feet in the water, Miss Roby called attention to the sunset; whereupon Lincoln
                    explained to her that the sun did not move in fact, but only appeared to do so; that it was the
                    earth that went around the sun. The young lady laughed at the absurdity of such notions and thought
                    him foolish, but later came to realize that Young Lincoln was not foolish, but knew much more than
                    anyone around there supposed.
            It was this same young lady who related a circumstance that took place in the schoolroom when all the
                    scholars were engaged on a Friday afternoon spelling match. This circumstance has been related by
                    almost all of the earlier biographers of Mr. Lincoln. The schoolmaster, 
                        Crawford
                    , had "given out" the word "defied," and the first
                    one attempting it had said: "d-e-f-y-e-d;" the second
                    "d-e-f-f-yed" and at length it came Miss Roby's turn. Not being certain
                    she chanced to look across the room where 
                        Lincoln
                     stood smiling. She notice him slyly placing his finger to his eye, and taking the hint
                    she spelled the word correctly and went to the head of her class. Young Lincoln was ever regarded as
                    a good speller, and particularly so by the time he reached his seventeenth year. In fact, he was
                    easily the best speller in the neighborhood and was commonly supposed to know quite as much as his
                    teachers, and more than some of them.
            As late as the year 1880, in this section, if a young man excelled in spelling so that he could
                    "take the floor" at spelling matches, and could "solve all the problems
                    in the arithmetic," he was regarded as learned; and no one questioned his ability to teach
                    school.
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     especially liked argumentative bouts, and this caused him to be much in the company of
                    his elders. This habit he later styled "practicing polemics." His ability to
                    argue, and his particular enjoyment of it, seems to have been maintained during his occupancy of the 
                        White
                     House. His secretaries are on record as saying that he spent more time  and greater pains with the famous Vallandingham letter than with any
                    State paper.
            As a youth he was quite inquisitive on almost any subject, and his habit was never to leave a
                    subject, however difficult, until he had mastered it. He was a good listener, and appeared to know
                    when to keep silent when in company of his elders. After hearing fireside discussions, if certain
                    phases were not clear to him, he lay awake after retiring and beginning at the first of the argument
                    he carefully reviewed it step by step until he had thoroughly satisfied his own mind of the
                    certainty of conclusions reached. He often walked to and fro for considerable periods, repeating
                    these arguments to himself, and after mastering them once he never forgot them. As he later put it,
                    he "was not satisfied when on a hunt for an idea until he could bound it north and south,
                    east and west." He was slow in reaching conclusions, but when once he announced his
                    decision in any given matter, he could not be moved by the force of argument or any other pressure
                    brought to bear.
            Many of his well-known stories, anecdotes and "yarns" were of Indiana origin. He
                    and Dennis Hanks usually spent their evenings at the 
                        Gentryville
                     store, and on rainy days they might be found either at the store or at
                    Baldwin's blacksmith shop. Baldwin was a great master at story telling, and it was his
                    "yarns" afterward related by Lincoln that caused members of cabinets or Congress,
                    and even representatives of foreign countries, to smile or laugh uproariously.
            It was his custom, after reading the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Journal at Jones' store to meditate upon what he had read, and then while
                    at work in the fields he would often review some of these discussions for the benefit of his
                    associates.
            Lincoln has been accused of being lazy, and in support of this assertion more or less evidence has
                    been offered. Mr. Romine, a near neighbor to the Lincolns and for whom Abraham often labored, is
                    quoted as saying that "Lincoln was lazy." The writer did not know Mr. Romine, but
                    Mrs. Romine was yet living when the data composing these pages were being obtained. In no single
                    instance was this charge of laziness made against Lincoln by any of his early friends.  However, it is believed that some of them would have been inclined to
                    this belief had they been approached earlier in life when it was the fashion to make the charge
                    against any who spent time poring over books. For any chance passerby to see a youth lying beneath
                    the shade of a tree, busily reading, was prima facie evidence that he was lazy and
                    usually occasioned, as in 
                        Lincoln
                    's case, some such remark as, "Old Tom's Abe'd
                    ruther fool his time away a readin' out of a book than to work any day." Indeed,
                    this disposition to criticise those who engage in purely mental labors while others were in the
                    fields or shops is met with frequently even today.
            Not long since in this very region, an artist spent some days on an eminence sketching a landscape,
                    and he was subjected to severe criticism by the farm laborers, remarking that "he is
                    doubtless the son of a bloated aristocrat and was not raised to work." Thus in 
                        Lincoln
                    's time for one to have a day off and elect to spend it in reading, was
                    regarded as indicating a lazy disposition. Had the day off been spent along the river bank with hook
                    and line, or in the woods with the gun, it would have elicited no unfavorable comment. The major
                    portion of Lincoln's early friends came to realize this, and where once might have been
                    found carping criticism, at the time the writer was gathering data he found commendation.
            The fact that Lincoln frequented the 
                        Gentryville
                     store or blacksmith shop has been cited as evidence quite sufficient to establish the
                    charge that he was lazy. There is a rule in logic that if too much is proven, then nothing is
                    proved. Certainly, if the mere fact that Lincoln was often found at 
                        Gentryville
                     is deemed sufficient evidence to prove his indifference to work, then substantially all
                    of his neighbors were lazy, since Gentryville was a Saturday town or rainy day town for the
                    surrounding neighborhood, just as many towns are today. As congressmen and senators frequent the
                    cloakroom, smoking and indulging themselves in the pastime of story telling, so in like manner 
                        Lincoln
                     frequented the pioneer cloakroom—Jones' store—thus
                    gathering that fund of stories and anecdotes which he afterward related to his associates and 
                        White
                     House visitors. Lincoln's boyhood friends indicated that "he  was ever ready to turn his hand at anything, no matter much
                    what, and was always at work if there was any work to be had."
            Joseph Gentry, a brother of Allen, told of hearing Lincoln make his first public address, apart from
                    such efforts as the schoolhouse debates occasioned. The circumstances leading up to this were as
                    follows:
            Two neighbors each owned a flock of geese, and one evening when one of these flocks returned and was
                    being housed for the night, it was ascertained that a certain grey goose was missing. The owner,
                    knowing that his flock occasionally mingled with that of his neighbor, and very naturally supposing
                    that it had strayed off with these, he accordingly went to the home of the owner of the other flock.
                    On his arrival there he explained his mission, and at once pointed to a certain goose claiming it as
                    his; whereupon the neighbor disputed the claim, and before long this occasioned a heated argument
                    which came little short of a personal encounter. The two disputants made sundry threats on
                    separating, each saying in effect that the matter was not settled, and the owner of the stray goose
                    indicated that he would "bring the matter before the squire." Accordingly,
                    attorneys were consulted and employed to prosecute and defend. The day was set for the trial, the
                    court room being the schoolhouse about one mile east of the 
                        Lincoln
                     cabin.
            The difference between these two neighbors occasioning the litigation very naturally produced intense
                    interest throughout the community, so much so in fact that when the day fixed for the trial came, a
                    great crowd assembled. However, not all of these came merely to gratify curiosity, for both sides
                    had subpoenaed a number of witnesses. Mr. Gentry stated that so far as to his having any personal
                    interest or motive in attending, it was due solely to a boyish curiosity to witness these
                    proceedings, and falling in with Lincoln, who was at that time in his seventeenth year, they walked
                    together to the schoolhouse. Arriving early, they went well forward and sat down on a backless
                    puncheon seat. Erelong the little house was crowded. The two litigants, together with members of
                    their families and friends, were seated on  either side of the
                    room. There was that characteristic stillness that foreboded a storm, and presently, without any
                    warning whatever, 
                        Lincoln
                     arose, and advancing quickly forward, faced the assembled crowd and began making an
                    address. Gentry maintained that Lincoln had not previously indicated his purpose to him or to others
                    of attempting such a thing, and when he thus stood forth and began the speech he (Gentry) was
                    greatly surprised. It was, of course, not possible for Gentry to give the exact language of 
                        Lincoln
                     on this occasion, but since the circumstances were indelibly fixed in his memory he
                    found no great difficulty in setting forth the scene rather vividly, and it is believed that the
                    following version of it is substantially what occurred: 
                        Friends and neighbors, what means this great gathering of old neighbors? What is it that has
                            called us together here? (up to this time the speaker's face being as serious as
                            Lincoln's face could be) and then amid the painful silence his features changed,
                            his eyebrows lifted, and irresistible humor beamed forth.) "What brings us
                            together? Why—an—old—gray—goose!" A
                            great roar of laughter greeted this ludicrous drawl, but not being interrupted in any way
                            and doubtless encouraged to proceed by the volley of laughter, he continued (serious again),
                            this time stating the case. "Mr. A., here (addressing him), has lost a goose and he
                            asserts that his neighbor, Mr. B., here (pointing) has it. Although Mr. B. disclaims having
                            in his possession any goose not his own, not being able or disposed to settle their
                            difference between themselves, they have decided to go to law, and that's why we
                            are all here." (Comical again.) "Mr. A. (addressing him), you say you have
                            lost a gray goose, and that you know that Mr. B., here has it, and rather than lose it you
                            have resolved to bring the matter to the court. Now you, Mr. A. (pointing and then quickly
                            turning his face and body half about) and you Mr. B., after you've had your trial
                            today, and no matter which way it goes, what have either of you gained? W-E-L-L, Mr. A., if
                            you win your case you'll get back your old gray goose, and
                            it-is-worth-say-about-two-bits! (great laughter). And you, Mr. B., if you win today,
                            you'll get to keep your old gray goose that you claim has always been yours, and
                            it's worth say-about-two-bits (laughter). Now you, Mr. A. (serious again), and you,
                            Mr. B., if you win today you'll get back your goose or keep your goose as the case
                            may be, but (very earnestly) I tell both of you that whichever one may win, he's
                            going to lose! And lose what, you say? Well, you have both been neighbors, and
                            you'll lose your friendship for one another for one thing; and not only that, it
                            won't stop there. For what means this array of witnesses here? (pointing). It means
                            your wives and family and friends will be at outs, and you've set up a commotion in
                            the entire neighborhood, and what about? (exceedingly comical). Oh, w-e-l-l
                            all-on-account-of-an-old-gray-goose!  If I were in your
                            place, men, I'd stop all this hair pulling and wool gathering. I'd get
                            together here and now and settle this thing, make up and be friends.
                    
                
            The result was that just as the court and the two attorneys from the county seat town came through
                    the little doorway, 
                        Lincoln
                     had the two litigants shaking hands and smiling. 
                        Lincoln
                     had thus laughed the matter out of court and won his maiden case which may not inaptly
                    or inappropriately be called "The Gray Goose case."
            Thoughtful consideration is invited by way of comparison of this circumstance with Lincoln's
                    Cincinnati speech where he presumes to address his "friends across the river," as
                    well as his famous Cooper Institute address, and above all his first inaugural where he stands as
                    the nation's peacemaker, saying: "You of the North and you of the South, you can
                    not fight always, and after you have fought with much loss on both sides with no gain *
                    * * can aliens make treaties easier than friends can make laws?"
            The method and manner, certainly the peculiar platform mannerisms, the skilful bringing together of
                    humor and the setting forth of the serious side, were pre-eminently characteristic of Young Lincoln
                    so that when he sprang into the arena of debate later, he came fully armed to meet the
                    "Little Giant" Douglass, if not with a shepherd's crook and sling, with
                    weapons more formidable—the speech and faith of the plain people, appealing as he did
                    "to the considerate judgment of mankind and invoking the gracious favor of Almighty
                    God" in defense of a holy cause that had been repeatedly defied.
            The unrivaled genius of 
                        Lincoln
                     whose consummate art in statement enabled him to become such a wizard with the pen, and
                    which flowered out on the prairies of 
                        Illinois
                    , was budding forth in the morning of his life in the wilderness of Indiana, becoming,
                    as he did in after years, "the greatest leader of all, he had the humblest origin and
                    scantiest scholarship, yet he surpassed all orators in eloquence, all diplomats in wisdom, all
                    statesmen in foresight and the most ambitious in fame."
            (To be Continued)
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            
               Chronicles of the Cape Fear River
               , 1660–1916. By
                        JAMES SPRUNT. Second Edition, Raleigh, 1916; pp. xii, 732.
            It will no doubt be a surprise to many readers to find a volume of this size filled with the history
                    of this small district; it is hardly more than a large community. The district is quite as fortunate
                    in having Mr. Sprunt as one of its citizens as in having two and one half centuries of interesting
                    history. As early as 1663 commissioners sent from the Barbadoes examined the 
                        North Carolina
                     coast with a view to settlement. Almost a century previous, 1585, the old English sea
                    dog, Sir Eichard Greenville, had coasted along the sandy shores of Cape Fear. In 1660, or
                    thereabouts, adventurers from 
                        Massachusetts
                     established a trading post on the Cape Fear river. The first
                    permanent settlers arrived May 24, 1664. The colony was thus over a century old when the Revolution
                    broke out; two centuries old in time of the Civil war. Some four hundred men went from here in 1740
                    to fight the Spaniards on the Spanish Main. During this period the Cape Fear
                    river bank was dotted with fine old plantations. On the headwaters of the river were
                    Sotch refugees from the Jacobite rebellion in 
                        Scotland
                    , from Glencoe and Culloden. The story of Flora McDonald is both interesting and
                    pathetic, to the thousands of Scotch descendants in the Northwest. The material development of the
                    country from 1790 to 1860—canals, railroads, steamboats—the growth of
                    institutional life, form a significant story and in this volume it is mingled with enough
                    reminiscent incidents, such as a visit to Wilmington in 1852 by Joseph Jefferson, to make the whole
                    interesting. By far the greatest interest, historically, attaches to the chapter dealing with the
                    Civil war. The Cape Fear coast, guarded by Fort Fisher, was the most difficult section on the whole
                    Confederate seaboard to close against blockade runners. Fort Fisher was the last gateway of the
                    Confederacy to the outside world. More than one hundred of these blockade runners are named  and many of their exploits are told. One, the Siren, made 64 trips through the blockade. Altogether it is a volume which will hold
                    one's attention and repay the time spent in reading. No effort has been made to test it for
                    accuracy, except in a general way, but the writer has evidently put in many years in a faithful
                    search for materials. The sources are indicated.
         
         
            
               Colonial Virginia Its People and Customs, by MARY NEWTON STANARD; published by J. B. Lippincott Co. 1917; pp.
                    376.
            This is a sumptuous volume from the standpoint of the bookmaker and is not less attractive either
                    from that of the reader or historian. The author has become saturated with the rich life of the Old
                    Dominion in colonial times. The author has gathered her materials from the files of the old 
                  
                            Virginia
                         Gazette, the 
                  
                            Virginia
                         Magazine of History and Biography, William and Mary College Quarterly and the
                    many collections of public records yet preserved in the county towns. The author has in her work
                    held in mind a picture of the olden times rather than what is usually understood by the term
                    history. Such chapter heads as The 
                        Virginia
                     People; Houses, from Log Cabin to Mansion; Household Goods; Social Life; Courtship and
                    Marriage; Dress, Theater, Outdoor Sports; Education, Books, Music, Pictures; Religion; and Funeral
                    Customs show the scope of the book. Many readers will perhaps be surprised to find in 
                        Virginia
                     just as great a desire for education and religion as there was in 
                        New England
                    . Life in Virginia was much fuller than in any other of the colonies, just as her
                    statesmen of that period were farther-sighted. The famous old families of 
                        Virginia
                     are often in the story and thousands of their descendants scattered in the West will be
                    pleased to visit their ancestral homes in this volume. The author's style is well-suited to
                    the subject. More than two score full page photogravures illustrate the text. It is one of the most
                    attractive and readable volumes published during the year. By all means it should stand side by side
                    with Bruce's Institutional History of 
                            Virginia
                        
                to give color and life to the picture.
         
         
         
            
               History of the 
                            United States
                        . By EMERSON DAVID FITE, Ph. D. Professor of Political Science in Vassar College. Published by Henry Holt
                    & Co., 
                        New York
                    , 1916. pp. x—575.
            This text is fully illustrated with nine maps in color and thirty-five in black in addition to above
                    two hundred cuts. In the opinion of the reviewer this volume approaches more nearly the ideal text
                    in 
                        United States
                     history than any that has come to his attention. The perspective, the proper proportion
                    between the various fields of our history, has been more nearly attained. The political principles,
                    commercial policies and customs, developed in colonial times and later built into the national life,
                    have been developed and other material either passed by or only casually noticed. Two other features
                    are commendable. The author has never allowed himself in describing governmental activities to
                    forget the conditions which give rise to those activities. This has necessitated a constant
                    counterplay between the home life of the people and the conduct of their representatives in
                    government. This has necessitated the use of what seems at first an unnecessary amount of detail
                    concerning commercial and social life but this is in reality the best feature of the book. One can
                    see from page to page the people taking possession of their heritage of natural resources and
                    reducing it to a nation of homes. The cow-boys on the ranches, the circuit riders organizing the
                    churches, the politicians organizing counties and States and the promoters opening up mines or
                    building cities and railroads, all are shown in their characteristic capacities and their influence
                    on the nation is deduced. The second feature is the avoidance of the common didacticism of most of
                    our text books. The field of generalization in history is usually best left to the reader and
                    especially is the teacher robbed of his opportunity when the facts of history are thus interpreted
                    by the author. It is as if an author of an arithmetic should carefully solve every problem; or an
                    editor of the Latin classics should furnish the student with an interlinear translation. History
                    with such a text ceases to be a study and becomes a mere memory exercise, a weariness to both
                    teacher and pupil. The volume under review seems to be a most promising text. The problem of  the text is set forth in the following quotation from Crevecoer,
                    quoted by Dr. Fite on page 100: "What then is an American, this new Man? He is neither an
                    European, nor the descendant of an European; hence that strange mixture of blood, which you will
                    find in no other country. I could point out to you a family, whose grandfather was an Englishman,
                    whose wife was Dutch, whose son married a French woman, and whose present four sons have now four
                    wives of different nations. He is an American, who leaving behind him all his ancient prejudices and
                    manners, receives new ones from the new mode of life he has embraced, the new government he obeys,
                    and the new rank he holds. He becomes an American by being received into the broad lap of our great
                    ‘alma mater’. Here individuals of all nations are melted into a new race of
                    men, whose labors and posterity will one day cause great changes in the world. Americans are the
                    western pilgrims, who are carrying along with them that great mass of arts, sciences, vigor, and
                    industry, which began long since in the east. They will finish the great circle. The Americans were
                    once scattered over all Europe. Here they are incorporated into one of the finest systems of
                    population which has ever appeared. … The American is a new man, who acts upon new
                    principles; he must therefore entertain new ideas, and form new opinions. From involuntary idleness,
                    servile dependence, penury and useless labor, he has passed to toils of a different nature, rewarded
                    by ample subsistence … This is an American."
         
         
            
               Sieur de Vincennes Identified. By PIERRE-GEORGES ROY. (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. vii, No. 1). 
                        Indianapolis
                    , C. E. Pauley and Company 1917, pp. 130.
            The documents contained in this study and the comments upon them establish beyond doubt that the
                    founder of the post on the Wabash was Francois-Marie Bissot de Vincennes. The author goes into
                    considerable detail in regard to his family and the whole discussion incidentally throws some light
                    on the dealings of the government of New France with the Miamis and other tribes on the 
                        Wabash
                    .
            Of the hundred twenty pages of that only twenty-five are devoted to the "Sieur de
                    Vincennes" (pp. 81–105), about forty-five  to
                    his father Jean-Baptiste (pp. 31–75) and the remaining pages to other relatives,
                    particularly to the related family Margane de Laveltrie, which some writers have regarded as the
                    family Vincennes. This arrangement of space is doubtless due to the limitations of the material at
                    M. Roy's disposal, but the elder Vincennes, on his own merits, is not unworthy the
                    attention of students of Indiana history. He too was an officer in the French army and a strong
                    wielder of French influence among the Miamis. It appears also that he took advantage of his position
                    to carry on an illicit trade with the Indians. Perhaps his chief importance is due to his success in
                    persuading the Miamis to resist the tempting advances of the British traders.
            The young Francois-Marie followed the career of his father, and to the prestige of the elder
                    Vincennes is probably due the ready acceptance of his authority by the 
                        Wabash
                     Indians. So successful was he that, while hardly more than a boy, the commander of the 
                        Illinois
                     sought to attach him to the service of 
                        Louisiana
                    , and much to the indignation of the governor of 
                        Canada
                    , succeeded. The government of 
                        Louisiana
                     was making great efforts to exclude the British from the upper Mississippi
                        Valley, and this policy apparently led to the founding of the post that later became 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            The treatment of the founding of Post Vincennes is very slight and there is nothing on its early
                    history. In the discussion of the battle with the Chickasaws the fact is not brought out that
                    Bienville had appointed a rendezvous with D'artaguette at Ecois a Prud'homme for
                    the tenth or eleventh of March, 1736, and then failed to keep his appointment. The statement of
                    Rickarville that Vincennes was burned at the stake is accepted, although all other contemporary
                    accounts that the present writer has seen indicate that he was killed in battle.
            M. Roy does not always give the source of his authority but most of his documents have come
                    originally from the French archives. He has made a very full tabulation of the publications that
                    refer to his subject. He has succeeded admirably in presenting facts where much has been tradition
                    and has cleared the way for accurate work on the early history of Post Vincennes.
             PAUL C. PHILLIPS
            
         
         
         
            
               Samuel Jordan Kirkwood, by DAN ELBERT CLARKE, State Historical Society of 
                  Iowa, Iowa City
               , 1917. p. xiv, 464.
            Kirkwood was the "war governor" of 
                        Iowa
                    . As such he holds a place in the estimation of Iowans similar to that held by Morton
                    among Indianians. In fact their careers are similar in many regards. Each was a successful lawyer;
                    each had achieved a high standing in the Democratic party when the position of that party on the
                    slavery question forced him into the Republican party. Each almost at once became the leader of the
                    Republican party in his State as well as its governor; each later went to the 
                        United States
                     Senate and Kirkwood, still later, into Garfleld's cabinet; each was bitterly
                    opposed during the Civil war by southern sympathizers in his State. Governor Kirkwood was born in 
                        Harford county
                    , 
                        Maryland
                    , December 20, 1813; spent part of his boyhood in 
                        Washington, D. C.
                    ; taught school in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , one of his pupils being his cousin, Prof. Daniel Kirkwood, of Indiana University; in
                    early manhood settled on a farm near 
                  Mansfield,
                            Ohio
               ; studied law and practiced in 
                        Mansfield
                    , serving his State as prosecutor, member of the Constitutional convention, and member
                    of the legislature; and in the spring of 1855 moved to 
                        Iowa City
                     where he engaged in farming and milling, serving his State as assemblyman, three terms
                    as governor and two as 
                        United States
                     senator. Such in brief is the career of the man. Mr. Clark has written the biography
                    from the papers and letters of Governor Kirkwood, from newspaper sources and from the Life and Times of Samuel J. Kirkwood, (1893) by Henry W. Lathrop. The volume is fully
                    noted, is readable and of convenient length.
         
         
            
               Western Influences on Political Parties to 1825. An Essay in
                        Historical Interpretation. The 
                        Ohio
                     State University Bulletin XXII, No. 3. By HOMER C. HOCKETT, Professor of American History in the 
                        Ohio
                     State University, 
                        Columbus
                    , 1917, pp. 157, paper.
            THE author has endeavored to find a "key to the political history of 
                        Monroe
                    's presidency, so long superficially, known as the Era of Good
                    Feeling." In search of this the author has examined  the
                    political history of the American people down to 1825. The first divisive issue, that between the
                    Federalists and Antifederalists, was largely the old issue of property against personal rights. The
                    Federalists controlled during the period following the Revolution until the settlement of the west
                    and the consequent growth of democracy overwhelmed them. The struggle during this period was
                    essentially one between the wealthier classes around tidewater and the poorer settlers in the west.
                    The origin of this struggle, Professor Hodder finds, was far back in colonial times as soon as there
                    became a differentiation between the commercial men of the coast and forest breakers on the frontier
                    lines in 
                        New England
                    , between the planters and the back country men in the south. The fear of the property
                    men, it seems, was that the Democrats would rob their opponents by means of taxation. The principal
                    reason for the Era of Good Feeling was the collapse of this struggle.
            The old Republican party, born of a sectional struggle, really died when it became national, that is,
                    when the west which it represented became the nationalist section. The new alignment into Democratic
                    and Whig was due to this divergent interests of west and south. Thus, Professor Hockett concludes
                    that these early parties had their origin in sectional interests. What influence the application of
                    this theory of interpretation will have in the history of political parties is not pointed out. It
                    is a thought-provoking essay, to say the least.
         
         
            
               Little Turtle The Great Chief of the 
                            Miami
                         Nation. By CALVIN M. YOUNG. Published by
                    the author at 
                  Greenville, Ohio
               , 1917; pp. 249. Illustrated.
            Little Turtle was the greatest of the 
                        Miami
                     chieftains. As a native warrior and leader he ranks with Pontiac and Tecumseh, both of
                    whom he probably excelled. It fell to his lot to meet the army of the 
                        United States
                     in battle four times, under Harmar at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , St. Clair at Fort Recovery, under 
                        Wayne
                     at Fort Recovery and again at Fallen Timbers, and win two victories. With one exception
                    he administered the most crushing defeat ever received by an American army at the hands of the red
                    men. It is to his credit as a general that his enemies usually outnumbered him and certainly were
                    better equipped.
            
            These are the stirring events about which Mr. Young has written. The author was born in 
                        Darke county
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , (in which Greenville is located) spent part of his boyhood near the birthplace of
                    Little Turtle on Eel river, in Indiana, and all his life in the neighborhood of
                    the events about which he writes. Part of the narrative is composed of the traditions handed down in
                    the vicinity. The author has clearly indicated the source of his information, however, so that the
                    reader may judge for himself of its authenticity. Little Turtle is not made out a noble hero of the
                    forest but is properly drawn as the capable, wily, savage he was. The story, in general, is sober,
                    not overdrawn, plainly stated, and kept well within the evidence. There are scenes of sublime pathos
                    where this chief of a declining race stands out manfully against his enemies, but it is the pathos
                    of the situation, and the author wisely abstains from any attempt at fine writing or over-coloring.
                    The story is one of great historical interest and the author has told it in a straightforward
                    manner. The little volume should be in every library of the State so that our people may form the
                    acquaintance of our greatest native son.
         
         
            
               History of the Church of the Brethren in Indiana. By OTHO
                        WINGER, President of 
                        Manchester
                     College. Brethren Publishing House, 
                  Elgin, Illinois
               ; 1917, pp.
                    479.
            The volume is confined entirely to Indiana. There is no account of the origin and earlier history of
                    the denomination, nor any attempt to distinguish it from other churches in Indiana by a statement of
                    its creed or discipline. The first chapter is a brief statement of pioneer conditions and a list of
                    the twenty-four "mother churches" established before the organization of the State
                    into districts.
            Chapter two contains a brief historical account of each of the present one hundred and twenty-five
                    congregations. This is a valuable bit of history and will be treasured as such, especially by all
                    members of the church. The Congregations are given alphabetically and thus no idea of historical
                    development is shown.
            Chapter three deals with the church organization. The first district meeting seems to have been held
                    about 1857 and  by 1863 such meetings were well established.
                    These meetings are made up of ministers and elders and deal with questions not only of organization
                    and policy but of creed and morals. Maps show each district and the location of each church within
                    the district. Tables showing time, place, and officers of each meeting are given together with some
                    of the more important proceedings. Chapter five deals with the Missionary activity of the church and
                    Chapter six with education. In the latter chapter is a detailed history of 
                        Manchester
                     College, a thriving college, now twenty-three years old, owned and conducted by the
                    church. The last chapter contains a number of biographies of well-known members of the congregations
                    in Indiana. President Winger has written in a simple straightforward manner, as all would expect who
                    know him, and has covered satisfactorily a field of our State history on which little material was
                    hitherto available.
         
         
            
               Marches of the Dragoons in the Mississippi Valley. An account of
                        Marches and Activities of the First Regiment 
                            United States
                         Dragoons in the Mississippi Valley between the years 1833
                        and 1850. By LOUIS PELZER. Published by
                    the State Historical Society, 
                        Iowa City
                    , 1917; pp. 282.
            Besides giving a fair picture of the frontier from Chicago by way of central 
                        Iowa
                    , Fort Leavenworth to 
                        Texas
                    , this volume furnishes a background for the reading of many of our books of travel in
                    the period covered. John J. Audubon, Captain Bonneville, George Catlin, George Croghan, De Smet,
                    Thomas J. Farnham, Edmund Flagg, John C. Fremont, Josiah Gregg, and Francis Parkman were some of the
                    many visitors at the frontier posts who are known in the literature of western travel. The volume
                    also furnishes a counterpart to the history of the American Indians, and especially to that chapter
                    (which has not been written) dealing with Indiana agencies.
            Jefferson Barracks was the general rendezvous of the dragoons. Expeditions were made along the Santa
                    Fe Trail to the Texan border, to the Pawnee Pict Village, to Des Moines, to the Rocky
                        Mountains, up the Canadian and Arkansas rivers,  to 
                        South Dakota
                    , Among the Sioux, along the 
                        Oregon
                     Trail to the South Pass, to 
                        California
                    , and to the Red River of the North. These show the field and
                    extent of their operations. The volume is written from official reports obtained from the war
                    department. One of these documents, which is included entire, is a journal by Capt. Nathan Boone,
                    son of the great explorer of 
                        Kentucky
                    . The value of the book is much reduced by the lack of maps. It can not be read without
                    the aid of a map of that period. The writer in most cases has neglected to locate mentioned places
                    which have long since disappeared or to identify men not widely known. Aside from these defects it
                    is a readable, and for historical purposes, a very useful book.
         
         
            
               History of the 
                            United States
                        . By MATTHEW PAGE ANDREWS, M. A. Published by J. B. Lippincott & Co., 
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1914. pp. xvii—378—xlviii.
            This is a text book in 
                        United States
                     History suitable for junior high school classes. The old traditional lines of text book
                    writing have been closely followed, although the author states in the preface that he has introduced
                    some innovations. In spite of an evident intention to abbreviate the colonial history there still
                    remains considerably more than one-fourth of the entire volume devoted to this period. One half of
                    this space it is believed could have been reserved profitably for a treatment of the great political
                    and economic changes which have taken place since 1896. Sectional rivalries and bickerings over
                    slavery and tariffs also might be passed over with more brevity. This fault, however, is found in
                    every textbook on American History now before the public. The constructive statesmen like Hamilton,
                    Monroe, Clay, Lincoln, and Hay are neglected for the sectional leaders of the Garrison, Webster,
                    Calhoun type. Aside from these questions of perspective and emphasis there can be no objection to
                    the book as a clearly written, well-arranged text. The sections are carefully organized, the leading
                    points can not be missed and the style is picturesque and clear. The analyses and questions at the
                    end of each chapter will be of service to most teachers.
         
         
         
            
               Historical Sketches of the Wabash Valley. By J. WESLEY WHICKER, 
                        Attica
                    , Indiana. Published by the author, 1917; pp. 159.
            The author is an attorney, and a descendant of one of the early settlers of the community. The
                    sketches represent the work of leisure hours in a field which has always had a fascination for the
                    author. They were originally written for and published in the 
                        Attica
                    
                    Ledger as a means of rousing local interest in the centennial celebration of
                    Indiana. The writer is well acquainted with the traditional history of the Middle Wabash
                        Valley, and from these he has woven many delightful stories. While not always
                    adhering to strictly documentary evidence, he never leaves the reader in doubt as to the source of
                    his information. The sketches of Cicot, the scout, and Burnett, of Sheshepah, Topenebee, the Battle
                    of Kickapoo, Ouiatenon, Harrison and the Battle of Tippecanoe are all most interesting. In fact
                    there is not a dry sketch among the forty-six which constitute the volume. The biographies of
                    Senator Hannegan, and Dr. Evans, the accounts of the building of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal, the 
                        Wabash
                     railroad, the founding and mutual rivalries of the towns of Maysville, 
                        Attica
                     and 
                        Covington
                     ending in the "Greek War" are all well told. There were also
                    "communities"—the "Coal Creek Community", the "
                        Fountain county
                     Community" and the "Grand Prairie Harmonical
                    Institute"—as well as a station on the "Underground", and a
                    rendezvous of horsethieves. The author has done a public service to his county in thus putting these
                    stories in form for preservation.
         
         
            
               History of the 
                            United States
                         Political Industrial Social. By CHARLES MANFRED THOMPSON, Assistant Professor of Economics, University of 
                        Illinois
                    . Benj. H. Sanborn & Co., 
                        Chicago
                    , 1917. pp. xx—540.
            Professor Thompson has written his text from the economic standpoint. All the larger phases of our
                    history, colonization, revolution, western migration, civil war, and political reorganization are
                    interpreted by economic motives. Admitting that this is the proper method of writing and teaching
                         history then one is compelled to say the text under
                    consideration is excellent. The points stand out clear, the chapters are well-organized and the
                    style is clear, though perhaps too difficult for any classes below high school. As an industrial
                    history it excels any of the recent texts. Two other features are worthy of attention. It embodies
                    the researches of the latest investigators, especially those who have been working in the field of
                    western history. The west is given more nearly its due proportion in the development of the
                    republic. As a consequence the colonial history is abbreviated. This is an improvement. Moreover
                    those lines of development which have tended toward strength and unity have been stressed. The
                    slavery question, so often over-emphasized has been given a more restricted and more proportional
                    treatment. Altogether, if one is willing to subscribe to the economic interpretation of history, it
                    is a very desirable text for high schools or even freshmen in colleges.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Morgan
                        's Raid in Indiana. (Indiana Historical Society Publications. VII, No.
                    2.) By LOUIS B. EWBANK, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, 1917, pp. 50. Paper.
            Judge Ewbank has confined himself strictly to his subject beginning his story with the crossing of 
                        Morgan
                     into Indiana at Mauckport and ending it with 
                        Morgan
                    's passing through 
                        Harrison
                     on the East State line. The story is written from the newspapers—the 
                        New Albany
                     Ledger, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Journal, the 
                        Louisville
                     Journal and the 
                        Madison
                     Courier—the Official Records of the Rebellion, Basil Duke's
                    Morgan's Cavalry, Morgan and his Captors, Smith's History of Indiana, and a very
                    sparing use of the best source, the Indiana Adjutant General's Official Reports. No attempt
                    has been made to use the vast amount of evidence still in the minds of those yet living who saw
                    Morgan and took part in his pursuit. The story is plainly and simply told. The Confederate raiders
                    are not unduly criticised as has sometimes been done by Indiana writers. They were on a legitimate
                    raid and conducted themselves generally as good soldiers. Judge Ewbanks has merited the thanks of
                    our people for thus making the story available.
         
         
         
            
               Publications of the 
                            Nebraska
                         State Historical Society Vol. XVIII. Edited by ALBERT WATKINS, Historian of the Society, 
                        Lincoln
                    , 1917, pp. xiii—449.
            This volume includes the proceedings of the society from 1908 to 1916 inclusive together with the
                    minutes of the directors' meetings for the same period. Besides these there are memorials
                    of Charles S. Paine, former secretary of the society, James B. Kitchen, Jefferson H. Broady, and
                    Lorenzo Crounse. The Historical papers are: Acknowledging God in Constitutions, by Rev. William
                    Murphy; 
                        Nebraska
                     Reminiscences, by William DeCourcey French; the Rural Carrier of 1849, by John K.
                    Sheen; Trailing 
                        Texas
                     Long-horn Cattle through 
                        Nebraska
                    , by James H. Cook; Neapolis, Near-Capital, by Albert Watkins; Controversy in the Senate
                    over the Admission of 
                        Nebraska
                    , by John Lee Webster; and How Nebraska was brought into the 
                        Union
                    , by Albert Watkins. The volume has eleven full-page illustrations.
         
         
            
               Publications of the State Historical Society of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , Proceedings of the Society at its Sixty-fourth Annual Meeting, October 19,
                    1916. 
                        Madison
                    , 1917; pp. 363.
            Besides the formal proceedings and reports including those of five auxiliary societies there are
                    eight historical papers: President Lincoln as a War Statesman, by Arthur L. Conger; New Light on the
                    Career of Nathaniel Pryor, by Joseph B. Thoburn; Reminiscences of a Pioneer Missionary, by
                    Chrysostom Verwyst; The Beginning of the Norwegian Press in America, by Albert Olaus Barton; The
                    Dream of a Northwestern Confederacy; by William C. Cochran; Mary Elizabeth Mears: "Nellie
                    Wildwood," by Publius V. Lawson; the Watertown Railway Bond Fight, by William F. Whyte; and
                    Brevet Major Isaac N. Earl: A Noted Scout of the Department of the Gulf, by Newton N. Culver.
         
         
            
               Indiana University Register of Graduates 1830–1916. Published by the
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , 1917. pp. 359.
            This is the sixth edition of the Register, the other editions appearing in 1897,
                    1899, 1901, 1904 and 1911. Many of the  old catalogs, however,
                    contain lists of all previous graduates. The alumni are given by classes, then by location, and
                    finally in alphabetical order with class numerals. The university has conferred degrees on 6108
                    different persons of whom 5243 are reported living.
         
         
            
               Special Report of State Board of Accounts of Inidana Information for the Public
                        Concerning the Examination and Investigation of Public Offices, By GILBERT H. HENDREN, State Examiner, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1917; pp. 57, paper.
            This is a general statement of the scope, work and methods of the board. Last year it secured the
                    return of approximately $237,000 to the public funds. The total expense of the board was
                    about $162,000; this of course is only a trifle in comparison with what it saved by
                    prevention. So drastic is the law under which it operates and so carefully is the work of auditing
                    performed that grafting is almost impossible in the public offices of the State.
         
         
            
               The Eleventh Annual Report of the Indiana Village for Epileptics at 
                            Newcastle
                         for the period ending Sept. 30, 1916. By W. C. VAN NUYS, Supt., pp. 48. Paper.
            This institution has had a daily average attendance of 218. Only males have been admitted. A separate
                    group of buildings for females is in process of construction. During the year 118 have been
                    admitted; 28 discharged as unimproved; 22 have died. Statistical tables are included showing age,
                    nativity, color, education, alleged causes of disease, previous occupation, location by counties,
                    and per capita cost of inmates.
         
         
            
               Report of the Proceedings of the Indiana Horticultural Society for the Year
                    1916, By M. W. RICHARDS, Secretary-Treasurer, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1917; pp. 467, paper.
            The volume contains a report of the 56th annual meeting of the society, held November
                    14–18,1916, at West Baden; also the proceedings of the State Board of Horticulture for
                    the year and a number of other papers and addresses. Among the 
                    latter is a paper by E. Y. Teas, a charter member of the Society, entitled Personal Reminiscences of
                    Early Indiana Horticulture. Another paper of historical quality is a Biography of Johnny Appleseed
                    by E. R. Smith. The volume is beautifully illustrated.
         
         
            
               Register of Officers, 1865–1916, and Alumni,
                    1875–1915, of Purdue University, 
                            Lafayette
                        
               , 1917; pp. 167, paper.
            This is the fifth Register of the Purdue alumni; the first appeared in 1896, the
                    second in 1901, the third in 1907, the fourth in 1912. The first part of the Register is an alphabetical list of officers and instructors. Then follows a list of alumni
                    similarly arranged. Next are the alumni by classes and lastly by locality. The total number of
                    baccalaureate degrees conferred is 5,043, of which 426 are for Agriculture, 61 for Chemical
                    Engineering, 923 for Civil Engineering, 1,087 for Electrical Engineering, 1,088 for Mechanical
                    Engineering, 802 for Pharmacy, 656 for Science.
         
         
            THE INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY, at its meeting at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 27, 1917, adopted the following resolution:
            
               Whereas, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. HOLLIDAY have
                    recently given their beautiful country home and many surrounding acres to the City of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to be used in perpetuity for park purposes;
            
               Whereas, The Indiana Historical Society recognizes in said act not only a great and
                    generous gift to their immediate community, but an epoch-making event that should be noted by the
                    entire State, Therefore be it
            
               Resolved, That the members of the Indiana Historical Society hereby express to Mr.
                    and Mrs. JOHN H. HOLLIDAY their sincere gratitude for this
                    most generous gift, and also acknowledge their deep appreciation of those noble qualities of mind
                    and heart which made such gift possible. Be it further
            
               Resolved, That coming as it did at the time of celebrating Indiana's first
                    Centennial, the gift of Holliday Park stands out as a high tower with beacon light, marking the
                    century closed, and the one just entered. As soft light glows upon the past,  as our pioneers of 1800 pass in review, and a broader light shines for
                    Indiana's future, the park which bears their name will be a blessing and a benefit to all
                    coming generations. May Mr. and Mrs. Holliday have the gratification of knowing that their names are
                    indelibly written into the history of Indiana, as most generous citizens and true benefactors of our
                    commonwealth.
            
               Resolved, That these resolutions be published in the INDIANA
                        MAGAZINE OF HISTORY; that they be spread upon the minutes
                    of the INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY, and that
                    a copy be sent to Mr. and Mrs. Holliday.
            Sarah Fletcher Wagner, Frank B. Wynn, H. U. Patton,
            —Committee.
            
            THE
                    Essex Institute Historical Collections for October has interesting material on the
                    life of John Rogers, the sculptor, and a sketch of old 
                        Salem
                     and vicinity, especially Hawthorne.
            THE second number of the 
                  
                            Michigan
                         History Magazine—October, 1917—has several articles of
                    interest to Indiana readers, 
                        Washington
                     Gardner's Civil War Letters; Supt. A. N. Cody's Teaching 
                        Michigan
                     History in the Public Schools; Byron Finney's Will Carleton,
                    Michigan's Poet; and John Fitzgibbon's Government Survey and Charting the
                        Great Lakes.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Iowa
                         Journal of History and Politics for October has an article by Ivan Pollock on
                    the 
                        Iowa
                     War Loan of 1861 and one by Frank E. Horack on the Legislation of the Thirty-seventh
                    General Assembly.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Historical Magazine for September, 1917, has as its leading article a paper by
                    George B. Jackson on John Stuart, Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Southern
                    District—that is 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    —after the Proclamation, of 1763. The paper covers the period of the early
                    migration to 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     and hence is of great value. It was written as a Master's thesis in Vanderbilt
                    University under Professor Sioussat.
            
            THE
                    
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review for December, 1917, has
                    the following articles: Howell Cobb and the Crisis of 1850, by R. P. Brooks; A Larger View of the
                    Yellowstone Expedition, by Cardinal Goodwin; the Beginnings of British West Florida, by Clarence E.
                    Carter; and Historical Activities in the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     Northwest, by Dan E. Clark.
            THE
                    American Historical Review for January, 1918, has President W. C. Ford's
                    address to the American Historical Association on the Editorial Function in 
                        United States
                     History. Another timely article is by James G. Randall on the Newspaper Problem in its
                    Bearing on Military Secrecy during the Civil War.
            
               The History Teacher's Magazine for January 1918 contains a Topical Outline
                    of the Great War, by Prof. S. B. Harding. This is an invaluable syllabus for teachers presenting
                    work in this field. It can be had in pamphlet form from the above Magazine at 
                        Philadelphia
                    .
            In the same issue are America's Debt to 
                        England
                    , by Lucius B. Swift of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and The War and the Teaching of War, by Howard C. Hill, formerly of Indiana, now of the
                    University of 
                        Chicago
                     high school.
            THE
                    Journal of History, published by the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter
                    Day Saints, contains articles on Voices and Visions of yesterday (relating to the revelations of
                    Joseph Smith); Polygamy from an Official Standpoint; Loyalty of the Saints; and the Keokuk Dam.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Western Pennsylvania
                         Historical Magazine, published by the Historical Society of 
                        Western Pennsylvania
                     made its initial appearance January, 1918. It is a quarterly of about 60 pages, of neat
                    appearance and well edited. The leading article is the Journal or Commonplace Book of John Taylor,
                    one of the pioneer preachers and teachers of Pittsburg. The delightful poem, The Boatman's
                    Horn, by Gen. William O. Butler, is reprinted. There is certainly an ample field for the quarterly,
                    and our best wishes are for its prosperity.
            
            The January number of the Indiana University Alumni Quarterly is a war number.
                    Besides an extended review of the war activities of the University there is an article on How 
                        Germany
                     Regards Art, by Prof. A. M. Brooks and one on America and the War, by Prof. J. A.
                    Woodburn. There is also a brief biography of John W. Foster, in whose death recently the University
                    lost its most distinguished living alumnus.
            THE
                    Early Life of Professor A. Marshall Elliott, by Prof. George C. Keidel, is a
                    pamphlet of 10 pages containing a brief biography of the noted Romance scholar and teacher at Johns
                    Hopkins University.
            THE
                    Loyalist Refugees of 
                            New Hampshire
                        
                is the title of a 20 page pamphlet by Prof. Wilbur H. Siebert, of 
                        Ohio
                     State University.
            THE
                    Exercise of the Veto Power in 
                            Nebraska
                        
               , by Knute Emil Carlson, is a master's thesis in the University of 
                        Nebraska
                    . The author has traced the rapid growth of the veto power in State constitutions after
                    the Revolution; its use in particular by the governors of 
                        Nebraska
                     and the growth of the item veto. This is the first joint publication of the 
                        Nebraska
                     Historical Society and the Legislative Bureau. It is a pamphlet of 105 pages.
            BY the favor of Mrs. Benjamin D. Wolcott, vice-regent for Indiana, the Survey is
                    in receipt of the Annual Report of the Mount Vernon Ladies' Association of the 
                            Union
                         for 1917. This organization in 1859 raised $200,000 by popular
                    subscription and purchased Mount Vernon. Their purpose is to preserve the estate as nearly like it
                    was in the time of 
                        Washington
                     as possible.
            THE
                    Daughters of the American Revolution Magazine for October has a description of the 
                        Whitley
                     house, the first brick residence erected in 
                        Kentucky
                    . It dates from 1783. Mrs. Henry A. Beck, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is State Regent of the Daughters in Indiana and Miss Emma Donnell, of 
                        Greensburg
                    , is vice-regent.
            
            THE
                    
                  
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review of January, 1918, has an article by H. A. Trexler on the 
                        Missouri
                        Montana
                     Highways; a continuation of Gootfried Duden's Report; and a brief biography of
                    George Creel.
            OUR EXCHANGES
            
            The SURVEY has in binding the files of its Indiana exchanges. It is the purpose of
                    the SURVEY to preserve, if possible, the files of at least one newspaper from
                    each county in the State. Opportunity is here taken to thank the publishers of these exchanges for
                    their assistance. All historical writers are fast realizing that the historians of the future as
                    well as those of the present will have to depend largely on the newspapers for their material.
         
         
         
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY
            Organized December 11, 1830
            "The objects of this society shall be the collection and preservation of all materials
                    calculated to shed light on the natural, civil, and political history of Indiana."
            This society was organized by the leading men of our State. The following were the first officers:
            Benjamin Parke, president; Isaac Blackford, first vice-president; Jesse L. Holman, second
                    vice-president; James Scott, third vice-president; John Farnham, corresponding secretary; Bethuel F.
                    Morris, recording secretary; James Blake, George H. Dunn, Isaac Howk, James Whitcomb and John Law,
                    executive committee.
            In the early days its annual meetings were one of the great occasions of the winter at the State
                    capital. Among its early members were eight governors, all the judges of the supreme and federal
                    courts, most of the circuit judges, a majority of the U. S. senators and congressmen and other
                    leading men of the State. The annual address was usually given by one of the great men of the
                    nation.
            The society has never had a building to house its collections nor adequate funds to publish its
                    papers. Its membership fee has been one dollar per year until quite recently when it was raised to
                    two. One dollar of this fee goes to the Indiana Magazine of History which is sent free to all
                    members. A small donation is made annually by the State. It has never received but one gift or
                    endowment. This was made by Hon. William H. English, its former president and one of the
                    distinguished historians of the State.
            The Society should have an income of $5,000 per year. Indiana has at least 5,000 men and
                    women who are interested in the State's history; and it is thought that if the matter were
                    brought to their attention they would help in the work. The membership fee is not a gift. The
                    Society sends its publications free to its members. These will cost on an average $1 per
                    year. It also sends the Indiana Magazine of History, of which it is a joint publisher, free. The
                    price of the Magazine itself is the same as the entire membership fee.
            For further information address
            CHARLES E. COFFIN, Secretary, Star Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; or INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY
                    
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana
         
      
      
         
      
   
