
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 63, Issue 2, pages 83-176. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:63+issue:2+year:1967&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The Progressive Bridge: Reform Sentiment in the 
                        United States
                     between the New Freedom and the New Deal
            Robert S. Maxwell*
            
            In the history of the reform heritage of the American people the Progressive Era has loomed large,
                    Here was a reform drive which operated on all levels of government, included large segments of both
                    major parties as well as the most important third party movement in this century, and introduced
                    significant reforms in the social and economic realms as well as the political world. The movement
                    included most of the familiar names of the pre-World War I era—Theodore Roosevelt,
                    Woodrow Wilson, Robert M. La Follette, Albert J. Beveridge, Charles Evans Hughes, and George W.
                    Norris-and created so favorable a climate of opinion that such diverse figures as William Howard
                    Taft and Eugene V. Debs both claimed to be progressives.
            The Progressive Movement had several unusual aspects in contrast to other reform eras. Progressivism
                    thrived during an era of prosperity. The movement developed under intellectual leadership and
                    claimed the support of farmers, trade unionists, the small business middle class, and even an
                    occasional millionaire. It had many faces which varied according to the time or geographical
                    location as well as the leader. Progressivism was also relatively free from the rancor which has
                    characterized other liberal reform drives. There was none of the hostile desperation which marked
                    the internal upheaval during the American Revolution; one fails to find the bitter moral
                    recriminations of the antislavery crusade that dominated the fervor of reform of the Jacksonian Era;
                    nor does one find any of the gloom, pessimism, and sense of crisis which ushered in the New Deal.
                    This is not to say that the progressives were not sincere or that their leaders were not
                    hard-hitting champions of the cause; but Progressivism was moderate, its leaders were accepted and
                        
                  
                     * Robert S. Maxwell is professor of history at Stephen F.
                            Austin State College, Nacogdoches, 
                                Texas
                            .
               
                     respected, and most of them did not feel that time was so short
                    as to necessitate a crash program.1
            
            In general the progressive was a planner. He advocated expansion of government for general social
                    welfare, for economic opportunity, and for political democracy. He had shifted his views from the
                    Jeffersonian philosophy of "liberty against government" to Theodore
                    Roosevelt's New Nationalism concept of "liberty through government" in
                    order to control big business and big labor. Essentially he was a pragmatist, ready to accept a
                    mixed economy if it could advance the general welfare. He saw nothing incompatible between the
                    federal postal system, the Panama Canal, or indeed the 
                        Tennessee
                     Valley Authority, and the capitalistic free enterprise system. He was optimistic,
                    confident, and certain that the future belonged to democracy, and that the "cure for the
                    ills of democracy was more democracy."2
            
            If these generalizations have any validity, the question immediately arises, what happened to the
                    Progressive Movement? Why was such a reform drive, seemingly so well-equipped with
                    leaders, amply supplied with issues, and buttressed with an optimistic liberal philosophy, so
                    short-lived? The traditional assignment of dates for the Progressive Movement places it
                    generally between 1901 and 1917, barely more than a decade and a half. As the latter date also
                    denotes America's entrance into World War I, the question is frequently asked in its
                    balder form: "Did the war kill the Progressive Movement?" Admittedly,
                    the war shattered the progressive organization, destroyed a part of the progressive leadership, and
                    left the progressive rank and file wandering in the wilderness, confused concerning causes and goals
                    for the better part of a decade. It is the purpose of this paper to examine the breakup of the
                    progressive coalition, to trace the continued 
                  
                     1 For conflicting interpretations of Progressivism see Richard
                            Hofstadter, The Age of Reform: From Bryan to F.D.R. (
                                New York
                            , 1955), 155ff; 
                                Norman
                             Pollack, "Hofstadter on Populism: A Critique of the ‘Age of
                            Reform,’" The Journal of Southern History, XXVI
                            (November, 1960), 478-500; C. Vann Woodward, "The Populist Heritage and the
                            Intellectual, The American Scholar, XXIX (Winter, 1959-60), 55-72; and
                            Arthur Mann (ed.), The Progressive Era: Liberal Renaissance or Liberal
                                Failure? (
                                New York
                            , 1963).
                  
                     2 George E. Mowry, The Era of Theodore Roosevelt,
                                1900-1912 (
                                New York
                            , 1958), 85-105; Robert S. Maxwell, La Follette and the Rise of the
                                Progressives in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                      (
                                Madison
                            , 1956), 4-5; George E. Mowry, The 
                                    California
                                 Progressives (Berkeley, 1951), ix, 86-104.
               
                     progressive reform activity that may be evident during the
                    twenties, and to note the role of progressive leaders and issues among the sources of the New Deal.
                    If these are substantial, it would indicate the existence of a "bridge" between
                    the reform eras of the Progressive Movement and the New Deal.
            As Wilson scholar Arthur S. Link has suggested, there were several causes for the decline of the
                    progressive reform drive. First, the progressive elements were never able to create or gain
                    permanent control of a political organization capable of carrying them into national office. Instead
                    they were forced to rely on temporary combinations which would allow them to dominate one of the
                    major parties such as the Republican party in 1904 or the Democratic party in 1916. The effort to
                    create a Progressive party in 1912 had been short-lived and had by no means attracted all the
                    progressives into its ranks. This lack of a political vehicle continued through the twenties with
                    the Republican party patently impossible for progressive purposes, the third party movement of 1924
                    doomed to failure because of national prosperity and inertia, and the Democratic party so torn by
                    internal strife that it almost ceased to be a national party. Second, the tensions which had wrecked
                    the progressive coalition of 1916 not only persisted but grew during the twenties. The alliance
                    between farmers and organized labor broke up. The rural-urban split often left these two groups more
                    opposed to each other than to their erstwhile foes. Third, these tension-ridden reformers were never
                    able to agree on a program that could form the basis of an effective revival. Some intellectuals
                    repudiated progressive ideals, and many of the urban middle class defected, thoroughly frightened by
                    the aftermath of the war. Fourth, for a time the progressives suffered from a lack of effective
                    leadership. The twenties, with its climate of contentment, materialism, and prosperity was an
                    unpropitious time to launch a new progressive crusade. Many of the old leaders were still on the
                    scene, and the younger generation who had served its apprenticeship under Theodore Roosevelt and
                    Woodrow Wilson had not yet emerged. These reasons help explain the decline of Progressivism after
                    the war, but they do not adequately provide a clue for the continuing reform sentiment evident
                    during  the twenties nor the remarkable resurgence of the
                    progressive temper in the early thirties.3
            
            Perhaps more should be said about the nature of the progressive split. The progressive leadership
                    differed violently over the issue of the war itself. Theodore Roosevelt would have entered the war
                    enthusiastically and early; Wilson entered reluctantly and at the eleventh hour; La Follette and
                    Norris would have remained neutral. Even after war had been declared, the methods of prosecuting it
                    divided still other progressives. By some strange alchemy of public opinion, both pro-war,
                    pro-league Wilson and anti-war, anti-league La Follette were discredited for a time during the
                    twenties. The orthodox and preferred position seemed to be the pro-war, weak-league (really
                    anti-league) stance which had characterized Henry Cabot Lodge and the bulk of the conservative
                    Republicans. Until the wounds made by this issue had healed, no regrouping of progressives was
                    possible.
            Wilson's home front policies engendered deep antagonisms among many progressive
                    supporters. Such measures as the espionage and sedition acts; his winking at the atrocities of the
                    vigilante mobs that harassed first, second, and even third generation immigrant families under the
                    guise of patriotism; and his partisan call for a Democratic Congress in 1918 alienated large
                    segments of the population. Men who had enthusiastically voted for Wilson in 1912 and 1916 became so
                    broodingly hostile that his name became anathema to them. The war became Wilson's war,
                    the treaty Wilson's treaty, and the league Wilson's league. The shortcomings
                    of the 
                        Versailles
                     Treaty and the mismanagement of the campaign for the League of Nations in the 
                        United States
                     (to say nothing of the Red Scare activities of Wilson's attorney general)
                    foredoomed the Democratic party as a vehicle of reform in the immediate postwar years.
                    Wilson's physical collapse, the evidences of his increased rigidity in the months that
                    followed, and his "dog in the manger" attitude preceding the Democratic convention
                    of 1920 only completed the debacle.4
            
            
               
                  3 Arthur S. Link, "What Happened to the Progressive Movement in
                        the 1920's?" American Historical Review, LXIV
                        (July, 1959), 833-51.
               
                  4 Robert S. Maxwell, Emanuel L. Philipp, 
                                Wisconsin
                             Stalwart (
                            Madison
                        , 1959), 163-80; H. C. Peterson and Gilbert C. Fite, Opponents of
                        War, 1917-1918 (
                            Norman
                        , Okla., 1957)’ 73-80, 285-96.
            
            
            Perhaps the very successes which Progressivism enjoyed prior to 1917 help explain its subsequent
                    decline. The initial reforms on the state level proposed by such leaders as La Follette, Hughes,
                    Joseph Folk, Albert Cummins, and Hiram Johnson had largely been written into law. Such
                    accomplishments as the direct primary, effective railroad commissions, reform of the state tax
                    structure, regulation of big business, labor legislation, water power and conservation programs, and
                    corrupt practices laws had exhausted the reform zeal of the moderate progressive. When one adds the
                    reforms which characterized the Square Deal and the New Freedom on the national level and the
                    concerted drive for improved education which was a hallmark of Progressivism in the South, the list
                    of innovations was indeed long, and many men of liberal and reasonable persuasion were willing to
                    see how the new reforms worked before launching out on new crusades.5
            
            This is not to intimate that the progressive program was complete. Albert J. Beveridge of Indiana,
                    for example, carried on a long and frustrating fight to ban child labor from American industry. But
                    not for another generation would the public and the courts accept this much needed reform. La
                    Follette and other advanced progressive leaders raised new issues and proposed new reforms which
                    were oriented to the increasing urbanization of American society. From a large part of the American
                    people these new calls brought forth only a limited response. Perhaps a period of pause and
                    consolidation was needed.6
            
            Not all of the progressive reforms were either wise or successful. An outstanding case in point was
                    the prohibition crusade. From the turn of the century prohibition had been a popular progressive
                    issue, particularly in the South and West. Reformers had pushed prohibition at the county level on
                    the basis of local option; they had urged state prohibition upon the legislatures and had finally
                    achieved success in the 
                  
                     5 Mowry, The 
                                    California
                                 Progressives, 135-157; Maxwell, La Follette and the Rise
                                of the Progressives in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                     , 40-172; Lincoln Steffens, Autobiography of Lincoln
                                Steffens (
                                New York
                            , 1931), 631ff; Dewey W. Grantham, Jr., Hoke Smith and the Politics
                                of the New South (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1958).
                  
                     6 Claude G. Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive
                            Era (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 250-55; Belle Case La Follette and Fola La Follette, Robert M. La Follette: June 14, 1855-June 18, 1925 (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1953), I, 444-505.
               
                     entire country with national prohibition backed by a
                    "bone-dry" enforcement law at the end of the war. The entire prohibition issue
                    soon split the remaining progressive forces. Though there had been twenty-two states dry by their
                    own action prior to 1917, the reaction in them had given no clue which could have anticipated the
                    rise of the bootleggers or the organization of gangster syndicates that often superseded the elected
                    law enforcement officers of a city. Nor could prohibition advocates have foreseen the shabby
                    enforcement policies of the Harding administration and the lethargy of the states. Die-hard
                    supporters of prohibition and other progressives who were ready to scrap the "noble
                    experiment" early in the twenties split on this issue to the exclusion of all else. The
                    tensions and friction engendered by prohibition kept progressives in all parts of the country
                    mutually hostile and largely prevented any coalition on other issues. Not until the end of the
                    decade did a majority of liberal and progressive-minded citizens, interested in social reform and
                    good government, agree that the prohibition experiment had been a failure and should be scrapped.
                    Even then repeal had to await a new administration.7
            
            An excellent case can be made that 
                        Warren
                     G. Harding was merely a political accident and that his election did not necessarily
                    denote the demise of the progressive spirit. In 
                        Chicago
                    , Harding had been merely a favorite son candidate who perhaps privately hoped for the
                    vice-presidency. It would have taken no strange turn of events for the Republican nominee to have
                    been Frank Lowden of 
                        Illinois
                     or Hiram Johnson of 
                        California
                    . Both were progressives. Had this occurred the campaign for the presidency in 1920
                    might have been between two progressive-minded midwestern governors with similar philosophies and
                    programs: Lowden and James M. Cox of 
                        Ohio
                    . Likewise, Coolidge was something of a political accident. He had gained popularity in
                    the convention by an offhand remark on the 
                        Boston
                     police strike and succeeded to the White House at the death of Harding. In 1924 the
                    Republican managers had no choice but to give Coolidge a chance to win a presidential term in his
                    own right. One cannot, obviously, predict what the course of American history 
                  
                     7 Andrew Sinclair, Prohibition: The Era of Excess (
                                Boston
                            , 1962), 162-77, 369-410.
               
                     would have been had a candidate such as Lowden been nominated
                    and elected in 1920. But one can be certain that the country would not have witnessed the
                    "great barbecue" which Harding and his "
                        Ohio
                     Gang" ushered in. Progressives would not have felt that the reform calendar
                    had been rolled back to the days of 
                        Cleveland
                     and McKinley.8
            
            Not all of the intellectuals abandoned Progressivism during the twenties. True, Lincoln Steffens had
                    been seduced by a more radical solution to man's ills and for a time was certain that he
                    had seen the future and it worked. Brooks Adams had retired to meditate on his Degredation of the Democratic Dogma and to contemplate Oswald Spengler's essay
                    on The Decline of the West. John Chamberlain had despaired of the success of
                    democratic reform and looked to the coming revolution. But these are merely examples of the split
                    which existed within the liberal ranks.9
            
            Perhaps the most influential progressive intellectuals who were active in the twenties were John
                    Dewey, Charles A. Beard, Thorstein Veblen, Walter Lippmann, and Herbert Croly. All had been
                    prominent in the prewar era, and each had made a contribution to progressive thought. Dewey provided
                    his philosophy of experimentalism or instrumental-ism, Beard his political analysis and history,
                    Veblen his pragmatic economics, Lippmann his practical political moderation, and Croly the morale
                    and planning for the future.10
            
            Dewey's studies, Human Nature and Conduct and The Public
                        and Its Problems, both of which appeared in the twenties, stressed the necessary
                    reformulation of democracy in terms of the changes taking place in American society. To Dewey the
                    democratic public was still largely unorganized, and the solution was some form of democratic
                    collectivism. His influence was great among the general public as well as in educational circles.
            
               
                  8 William T. Hutchinson, Lowden of 
                                Illinois
                            : The Life of Frank O. Lowden (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1957), II, 452-83.
               
                  9 Steffens, Autobiogaphy, 790-829; Brooks Adams, The
                            Degradation of the Democratic Dogma (
                            New York
                        , 1920), v-xiii; Oswald Spengler, The Decline of the West (
                            New York
                        , 1939); John Chamberlain, Farewell to Reform: Being a History of the
                            Rise, Life and Decay of the Progressive Mind in America (
                            New York
                        , 1932).
               
                  10 Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., The Crisis of the Old Order,
                            1919-1933 (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1957), 130-34; Henry Steele Commager, The American Mind: An
                            Interpretation of American Thought and Character Since the 1880's (
                            New Haven
                        , 1960), 98-99, 221-25, 305-309.
            
            
            Beard, in a series of articles as well as in longer works, stressed the need for planning to solve
                    the nation's ills. His Whither Mankind, America Faces the Future,
                    "A Five Year Plan for America," and "Conservatism Hits Bottom"
                    all foresaw optimistically the future promise in American life built on the American past. Man as a
                    rational animal, Beard argued, would have to impose rationality upon politics and force upon society
                    an even larger area of planned conduct.11
            
            In The Engineers and the Price System, as well as in his earlier works, Veblen gave
                    assurance of the technical feasibility of a planned economy. His gibes at the businessman and his
                    preoccupation with profits rather than production and distribution seemed to be an endorsement of
                    the new technology and even earned the endorsement of some industrialists. Veblen's
                    disciples, John R. Commons, Selig Perlman, and Edwin Witte, made economics more meaningful and
                    applicable to the postwar world.12
            
            In Public Opinion Lippmann argued that the "Great Society" had
                    grown so "furiously and to such colossal dimensions" that the average citizen
                    (including the average lawyer) lacked the competence to direct its affairs. The public had been
                    forced to call in experts who were trained (or had trained themselves) to make parts of this great
                    society intelligible to those who managed it. The social scientist, said Lippmann, had been one of
                    the last of these; but he, too, had to participate in the planning if the society were to function.
                    In A Preface to Morals he insisted that men, if they were civilized, must become humanists. By
                    restrained and voluntary reciprocal actions Lippmann would use only democratic processes to achieve
                    the desired social goals. Still later in The Good Society Lippmann formulated a balance between
                    liberty and order which would promote the best in American society. His proposals included
                    conservation, reclamation, public hydroelectric power, increased spending on 
                  
                     11 John Dewey, Human Nature and Conduct: An Introduction
                                to Social Psychology (
                                New York
                            , 1922); John Dewey, The Public and Its Problems: An Essay in
                                Political Inquiry (
                                New York
                            , 1927); Charles A. Beard, Whither Mankind (
                                New York
                            , 1928); Charles A. Beard (ed.), America Faces the Future (
                                New York
                            , 1932); Charles A. Beard, "A Five Year Plan for America," The Forum, LXXXVI (July, 1931), 1-11; Charles A. Beard,
                            "Conservatism Hits Bottom," New Republic, LXVIII (August
                            19, 1931), 7-11.
                  
                     12 Thorstein Veblen, The Engineers and the Price
                            System (
                                New York
                            , 1921); Joseph Dorfman, Thorstein Veblen and His America (
                                New York
                            , 1934), 438ff.
               
                     health and education, and unemployment insurance. In his balance
                    between man's hopes and fears, caution and confidence, tradition and progress, Lippmann
                    represented much that was best in the American democratic tradition, i.e. rational pragmatism.13
            
            Croly edited the New Republic throughout the twenties and used the magazine as a
                    rallying point for liberal thought. In its columns he supported such progressive programs as emerged
                    on either the national or state level. After La Follette's defeat in 1924, Croly
                    seemingly lost interest in current politics. The task of the liberal, thought Croly, was to acquire
                    social education and knowledge of human behavior and to put this new learning into use by means of
                    the experimental method.14
            
            Thus throughout the twenties there was no shortage of intellectual leadership by known and respected
                    progressive scholars and writers. To be sure no liberal synthesis had emerged by the end of the
                    decade that would rally all progressives to its support; but the writings of Dewey, Beard, Veblen,
                    Lippmann, and Croly had much in common. Collectively, they gave small comfort to Herbert Hoover and
                    his "New Era."
            Prominent in all accounts of reform during the Progressive Era is some discussion of reform in the
                    cities. Muckraking reporter Lincoln Steffens made his initial reputation describing the graft and
                    political corruption of American cities in a series of articles regarding the "Shame of the
                    Cities." Joseph W. Folk began his career as a reformer on the urban level in 
                        St. Louis
                    ; Tom Johnson gained the reputation of being the best mayor of the best governed city in
                    the 
                        United States
                     in 
                        Cleveland
                    ; "Golden Rule" Jones won fame for cleaning up 
                        Toledo
                    ; and Hiram Johnson began his public career prosecuting the graft trials in 
                        San Francisco
                    . The experiments with new forms of city government in Galveston and 
                        Dayton
                     attracted nationwide attention.15 Yet the greatest success story of
                    reform on the urban level and the long-continued 
                  
                     13 Walter Lippmann, Public Opinion (
                                New York
                            , 1922), 370; Walter Lippmann, A Preface to Morals (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 221, 260-83; Walter Lippmann, An Inquiry into the
                                Principles of the Good Society (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 212-38.
                  
                     14 Schlesinger, The Crisis of the Old Order, 133.
                  
                     15 Harold Underwood Faulkner, The Quest for Social
                                Justice (
                                New York
                            , 1931), 93-104; Cornelius Regier, The Era of the Muckrakers (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1932), 59-82, 147-57.
               
                     triumph of good government took place at 
                        Cincinnati
                     in the 1920's, a decade when Progressivism was supposedly dead.
            
               
                        Cincinnati
                     at the turn of the century was a notorious graft-ridden, machine-dominated,
                    boss-controlled city. Steffens had written an article on 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Boss Cox in which he had asked Cox if he was the boss of the city. "I
                    am," replied Cox. "Of course you have a mayor, and a council, and
                    judges?" queried Steffens. "I have," responded the boss,
                    "I have a telephone, too." This brief, laconic statement, as Steffens said, summed
                    up the truth about 
                        Cincinnati
                    , a city dominated by a boss whom the people feared but who did not fear them. If anyone
                    wanted something he went to see George Cox, not the mayor. In fact, Steffens had not even bothered
                    to call on the mayor when he was gathering material for his story; the mayor could not and would not
                    have helped him—he was a mere puppet.16 Despite a halfhearted effort
                    at reform after the publication of Steffen's article, the city remained under the
                    domination of Boss Cox and the machine. This was still the situation after Cox died, and it
                    continued unchanged through the war and into the decade of the twenties. Then suddenly in 1924
                    something happened.
            Led by Charles P. Taft, brother of the President, and other prominent citizens, the people of 
                        Cincinnati
                     set up an organization known as the City Charter Committee. Volunteer workers in great
                    numbers called on voters, distributed pamphlets, and personally explained the
                    proposals—right down to the individual ward, precinct, and block. On election day the
                    voters adopted the new city charter and authorized the establishment of a city-manager type of
                    government. Under the new manager, who was both an army engineer and a graduate lawyer, the city
                    proceeded to clean house. Out went the grafters, corrupt police officials, and known criminals.
                    These individuals fled across the Ohio River to the 
                        Kentucky
                     town of 
                        Newport
                     and its environs where they established themselves and dominated those communities for
                    a generation.17
            
            
               
                  16 Steffens, Autobiography, 482-88.
               
                  17 Charles P. Taft, City Management: The 
                            Cincinnati
                         Experiment (
                            New York
                        , 1933); for crime and vice in northern 
                            Kentucky
                         see James A. Maxwell, "
                            Kentucky
                        's Open City," Saturday Evening Post, CCXXXII (March 26, 1960),
                        22-23, 82-85; Newsweek, LVII (May 22, 1961), 25; ibid. (June 5, 1961),
                    33.
            
            
            Perhaps the key to 
                        Cincinnati
                    's success was that the Charter Committee, once the initial battle was won,
                    did not demobilize. Since 1925 the committee has functioned as the Charter party and has worked to
                    put forward the best candidates for the council and to secure their election. The city manager has
                    remained free to manage the city on a scientific basis and takes no orders from political bosses or
                    pressure groups. From being one of the worst governed cities in the nation, 
                        Cincinnati
                     has achieved and kept the reputation of being one of the best governed.18
            
            The popular stereotype has been that the "war broke the Progressive Movement, scattered it,
                    and left it in 1920 with no place to go nor any point on which to re-form."19 Actually, Progressivism continued to be active somewhere within the 
                        United States
                     during the entire period from 1917 to the advent of 
                        Franklin
                     D. Roosevelt in 1933. For example, the years 1918-1920 were years of outstanding
                    achievement for progressives in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     where Governors Cox and Lowden were completing reform programs. Reformers in 
                        North Dakota
                     and South Dakota, through the Non-Partisan League, won control of state administrations
                    and established a variety of state economic agencies, including a state bank, state grain elevators,
                    state crop insurance fund, and a state cement factory. In 
                        Minnesota
                     the Non-Partisan League laid the foundations for a more permanent farm-labor alliance
                    that survived until the depression.20
            
            In 
                        Wisconsin
                    , one of the pioneer progressive leaders among the states, the national trend was
                    briefly inverted. In 1914 when the rest of the country was supporting Wilson and endorsing such
                    measures of the New Freedom program as the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Trade Commission, and
                    the Clayton Act, the voters of 
                        Wisconsin
                     had gone 
                  
                     18 Marguerite J. Fisher and Donald G. Bishop, Municipal
                                and Other Local Governments (
                                New York
                            , 1950), 105-106.
                  
                     19 Russel B. Nye, Midwestern Progressive Politics: A
                                Historical Study of Its Origins and Developments, 1870-1958 (East Lansing, Mich.,
                            1959), 310; William E. Leuchtenburg, The Perils of Prosperity, 1914-32 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1958).
                  
                     20 Link, "What Happened to the Progressive Movement in the
                            1920's?," 833-37; Hutchinson, Lowden of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , II, passim; Robert L. Morlan, Political 
                                    Prairie
                                 Fire: The Non Partisan League, 1915-1922 (
                                Minneapolis
                            , 1955), passim; Nye, Midwestern Progressive
                                Politics, 313-19; Theodore Saloutos and John D. Hicks, Agricultural
                                Discontent in the Middle West, 1900-1939 (
                                Madison
                            , 1951), 100-48.
               
                     conservative. In that year they elected as governor a
                    millionaire refrigerator car magnate, Emanuel Philipp, who ran on a platform denouncing progressive
                    reforms and promising to reduce the service and regulatory commissions which the La Follette
                    organization had set up. Philipp held office for three terms until 1920, and though he was far from
                    an unenlightened governor, by no means could one describe him as a near-progressive. He had opposed
                    the primary election system, the state income tax, and the increased welfare program of the state.
                    His most liberal actions involved his staunch defense of civil liberties against the
                    "110"/o American" vigilante groups and his denunciation of mob violence
                    under the name of patriotism.21
            
            Then in 1920, when the country was endorsing Harding and the return to normalcy, the 
                        Wisconsin
                     voters elected a La Follette lieutenant, John J. Blaine. As governor he immediately
                    initiated a new period of progressive reform in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Under Blaine, the state increased the state income tax on corporate and large personal
                    incomes, doubled the inheritance tax, created a department of markets, enacted a home rule for
                    cities amendment, and won important gains for industrial workers. In 1926 Blaine went to the 
                        United States
                     Senate where he continued his support of organized labor and farm legislation. He
                    regularly sought the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment; in fact it was he who introduced the Senate
                    resolution which set in motion the process of repeal. Blaine was a vigorous progressive in the La
                    Follette tradition and, as could be predicted, gave no support to Harding, Coolidge, or Hoover.22
            
            In 
                        New York
                     voters demonstrated that the reform spirit was far from dead during the twenties. Four
                    times between 1918 and 1928 the people of the Empire State elected Alfred E. Smith governor.
                    Smith's background was in direct contrast to that of other progressive governors of 
                        New York
                     such as Theodore Roosevelt, Charles Evans Hughes, or his successor, 
                        Franklin
                     D. Roosevelt. Born on the lower east side of 
                  
                     21 Maxwell, Emanuel L. Philipp, 152-80.
                  22 Ibid., 207-20; Herbert F. Margulies, "The Election of 1920
                            in 
                                Wisconsin
                            : The Return to ‘Normalcy’ Reappraised," 
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Magazine of History (Autumn, 1957), 15-22; Edward N. Doan, The La Follettes and the 
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Idea (
                                New York
                            , 1947), 76, 122ff; William F. Raney, 
                                
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                            , A Story of Progress (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 356-59.
               
                     Manhattan and growing up in near poverty with limited
                    educational opportunity, Smith was a rare combination of Tammany politician and thoroughgoing
                    liberal. Though he understood and spoke the language of the machine, Smith was equally knowledgeable
                    about the public interest; and he was devoted to it. He used trained experts with skill and
                    confidence but also had an uncanny faculty for the essence of good government. He knew that reform
                    would not last unless it was based on popular understanding. He frequently said that
                    "honest politics were the best politics"—not just money honesty, but
                    also honesty in discussing issues. His programs succeeded, in part, because he saw politics as an
                    "educational process."23
            
            Smith's record as governor was thoroughly liberal. In his first term during the Red Scare
                    of 1919-1920, he opposed the repressive Lusk bills, denounced the Palmer raids, and spoke against
                    the expulsion of Socialists from the 
                        New York
                     State Assembly. In proposing the reorganization of the executive department, Smith
                    demonstrated his broad bipartisan interest in good government by nominating and securing the
                    appointment of Charles Evans Hughes as chairman of the commission. Due largely to Smith's
                    efforts the report was completed, adopted, and in 1927 went into effect. In other reforms he
                    systematically eliminated grade crossings in the state, established a state health laboratory,
                    expanded the state park system, and pushed public ownership and operation of the state's
                    waterpower facilities. He sponsored labor legislation to protect women and children, liberalized the
                    workman's compensation law, and secured the adoption for 
                        New York
                     of the forty-eight hour week. He also reorganized the tax program, expanded social
                    services, and enlarged public works. Smith was perhaps the outstanding progressive governor of the
                        decade.24
            
            Nor were 
                        Wisconsin
                     and 
                        New York
                     merely the isolated afterglow of the fires of reform in what La, Follette called the
                    "laboratories of democracy." In 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Bull Moose Progressive Gifford Pinchot, onetime chief forester of the 
                        United States
                     and promoter of conservation, became governor 
                  
                     23 Schlesinger, The Crisis of the Old Order, 97-98.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid.; David M. Ellis et al., A Short
                                History of 
                                    New York
                                
                      State (
                                Ithaca
                            , N.Y., 1957), 393-406; Oscar Handlin, Al Smith and His
                            America (
                                Boston
                            , 1958), 90-111.
               
                     in 1923. His record of reform achievements included the
                    reorganization of the executive branch, improvement of the state civil service system, adoption of
                    sound budget procedures, creation of a state bureau for women and children, legislation facilitating
                    collective bargaining for the state's miners, and establishment of a giant power survey
                    which later became the basis for the federal rural electrification projects.25
            
            In the South such reform-minded governors as Cameron Morrison of 
                        North Carolina
                    , Bibb Graves of 
                        Alabama
                    , and Austin Peay of 
                        Tennessee
                     achieved notable successes in expanding public services, modernizing the machinery of
                    government, and developing state highway programs. Many southern states during this period made
                    progress in establishing welfare programs, instituting tax reforms, and continuing improvement in
                    public education. In 
                        Louisiana
                     where an oppressive oligarchy had stifled change too long, reform wore the dictatorial
                    face of the "Kingfish" Huey Long. The social reforms which Long forced through the
                    legislature were certainly overdue, and the impact of his leadership was unusually great.
                    "Perhaps the lesson of Long," writes one scholar of 
                        Louisiana
                     history, T. Harry Williams, "is that if in a democracy needed changes are
                    denied too long by an interested minority, when they come, the changes will come with a measure of
                    repression and revenge." Thus it would be inaccurate to picture the South in the twenties
                    as entirely engrossed in the Ku Klux Klan, prohibition, and Bible Belt fundamentalism, important as
                    these influences were. There were other and fresher breezes stirring also.26
            
            One final example of continued Progressivism on the state level is 
                        California
                    . The Bear State had been in the forefront of the reform movement during the
                    governorship of Hiram Johnson, from 1911 to 1917, and had been a leader in the development of direct
                    legislation. After a period of reaction, Clement C. Young, running on a reform platform, captured
                    the governorship in 1926 and reversed the conservative trend. He pushed through a variety of
                    progressive 
                  
                     25 Martin L. Fausold, Gifford Pinchot, Bull Moose
                                Progressive (
                                Syracuse
                            , N.Y., 1961), 249ff.
                  
                     26 Dewey W. Grantham, Jr., The Democratic South (
                                Athens
                            , Ga., 1963), 62-64; T. Harry Williams, "The Gentleman from 
                                Louisiana
                            : Demagogue or Democrat," The Journal of Southern
                            History, XXVI (February, 1960), 17.
               
                     measures and left a record of having been one of the most
                    liberal and able administrators in the history of the state.27
            
            Nationally, a considerable group of reformers—old Progressives, liberal intellectuals,
                    single taxers, and others—had met in 
                        St. Louis
                     during the winter of 1920 seeking to develop some permanent organization to include the
                    several progressive groups. They formed the "Committee of Forty-Eight" which
                    investigated the possibilities of a new, radical, left wing, third party movement. The group broke
                    up, however, when La Follette refused to run on their platform. Some retired to await the further
                    turn of the political wheel, and the residue endorsed the farmer-laborer candidate for president and
                    in effect disappeared.28
            
            Throughout the twenties there was always a nucleus of progressives in Congress. One popular magazine
                    found in the House fifteen from 
                        Wisconsin
                    , five from 
                        Minnesota
                    , one each from 
                  Kansas, North Dakota
               , and 
                        New York
                    . In the Senate there was a solid corps of progressives: La Follette, Norris, William E.
                    Borah, Smith Brookhart, Edwin F. Ladd, Lynn Frazier, Burton K. Wheeler, Henrik Shipstead, and
                    Charles McNary. After the elections of 1922 this group held the balance of power. A conference of
                    progressive-minded leaders in 
                        Washington
                     in December, 1921, led to the formation of the Conference for Progressive Political
                    Action (CPPA) early the next year. The CPPA, described as having something of the flavor of the old
                    National Progressive Republican League, took an active part in the off year congressional elections
                    of 1922; and this led directly into the third party campaign of 1924.29
            
            Most of the old progressives (except for Borah), liberals, social workers, farm group leaders, and
                    intellectuals supported La Follette in his presidential bid on the independent Progressive party
                    ticket. Despite the fact that La Follette polled almost five million votes, carried his home state
                    of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and ran second in eleven other states (all in the West or Midwest), it is hard to
                    believe that any experienced 
                  
                     27 Mowry, The 
                                    California
                                 Progressives, 291.
                  
                     28 Nye, Midwestern Progressive Politics, 324-25; La
                            Follette, Robert M. La Follette, II, 998-1011.
                  
                     29 La Follette, Robert M. La Follette, II, 1055-73, 1098; Schlesinger,
                                The Crisis of the Old Order, 101; Nye, Midwestern
                                Progressive Politics, 326-27.
               
                     observer seriously expected a Progressive victory or that La
                    Follette could throw the election into the House of Representatives. A temporary third party
                    movement, especially one organized in July of the election year, with no grass-roots candidates for
                    state and local offices, could not expect to unseat one of the major parties. Rather, and without
                    denying La Follette's sincerity and dedication, the Progressive campaign of 1924 was more
                    a race for the record: to make an effective protest against the conservatism and lack of vision of
                    both major parties, and to keep the various reform elements together against the day that the
                    political tide would turn liberal again. La Follette, at sixty-nine, could hardly have been expected
                    to take over and to run effectively the federal machinery of government even had he been elected.
                    The aftermath of the election, when the Republican leadership stripped La Follette, Ladd, Frazier,
                    and Brookhart of their committee assignments and in effect read them out of the party, did much to
                    destroy the future of the GOP. It forced most progressive Republicans to turn to the Democrats for a
                    liberal party, and in turn their migration helped make the Democratic party the vehicle of reform in
                    the 
                        United States
                    .30
            
            During these years of minority influence in Congress, the progressives developed a legislative
                    program that later would bear fruit. Led by the farm bloc representatives with assistance from such
                    outside old progressives as George N. Peek and Hugh Johnson, they worked out a comprehensive farm
                    relief plan and incorporated it into the McNary-Haugen Bill. The measure twice passed Congress; and
                    though vetoed by Coolidge, the plan was accepted by most reform-minded persons as part of a basic
                    and necessary federal program for farm relief.31
            
            A second major development in the progressive legislative program was in the field of public power.
                    At the beginning of the decade the progressives in Congress were hard put to sustain George Norris
                    in his fight against federal disposal of the 
                        Tennessee
                     Valley properties at Muscle Shoals. Before the end of the twenties they had developed a
                    campaign which would commit the federal government to large-scale hydroelectric projects on the 
                        Tennessee
                    , the 
                        Columbia
                    , the 
                        Colorado
                    , and the St. Lawrence rivers. By 1928 they had found enough allies
                    in Congress and enough support from 
                  
                     30 Kenneth MacKay, The Progressive Movement of 1924 (
                                New York
                            , 1947); La Follette, Robert M. La Follette, II, 1127ff.
                  
                     31 Gilbert C. Fite, George N. Peek and the Fight for Farm Parity (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1964), 169-203.
               
                     the public to pass a bill for limited federal development of the 
                        Tennessee
                     Valley. Coolidge killed this by a pocket veto, and three years later Hoover vetoed a
                    second attempt. But these were only temporary setbacks; the future was definitely on their side.32
            
            Other progressive proposals of the twenties were also to bear fruit at a later date. Coupled with the
                    Muscle Shoals question was a drive to investigate and curb the great utility trusts such as the
                    Insull empire. La Follette and Norris pushed a variety of other reform legislation which, though not
                    passed in the twenties, became part of the liberal program. These included a demand for a
                    "lame duck" amendment as early as 1922, a proposal to strengthen the Federal
                    Reserve System and guarantee bank deposits, and a continuing drive to stop the excessive use by the
                    federal courts of the injunction in labor disputes. This last item was achieved in the final year of
                    Hoover's term with the passage of the Norris-La Guardia Anti-Injunction Act.33
            
            Once the issues of the 
                        Versailles
                     Treaty and the League of Nations were finally buried, the progressives were even able
                    to agree on many questions of foreign policy. Prominent among these was the diplomatic recognition
                    of Soviet Russia. Indeed, during the twenties the progressives led the fight to create a climate of
                    opinion which would favor the restoration of normal relations with the Soviets. Perhaps foremost in
                    this drive was William E. Borah, the 
                        Idaho
                     progressive, who could be counted on to be irregular and independent except on election
                    day. Borah argued that recognition of the Communists would in no sense imply approval of their
                    government. If that were true the 
                        United States
                     would have had to sever relations with several nations that were currently recognized.
                    It would simply be a recognition that they had a government.34
            
            Senator Smith Brookhart of 
                        Iowa
                     and La Follette made short trips to Europe and the 
                        Soviet Union
                     in 1923. On their return they joined Borah in demanding a reversal of the policy of
                    nonrecognition. All three argued that continuation of Russia's status as an outlaw was
                    dangerous to the peace of 
                  
                     32 George W. Norris, Fighting Liberal: The
                            Autobiography of George W. Norris (
                                New York
                            , 1945), 250-66.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 323-34; Doan, The La Follettes and the 
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Idea, 116; Charles Garrett, The La Guardia Years: Machine
                                and Reform Politics in 
                                    New York City
                                
                      (
                                New Brunswick
                            , N.J., 1961), 120.
                  
                     34
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, March 19, July 26, 1923; Claudius O. Johnson, Borah of 
                                    Idaho
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 355; Congressional Record, 67 Cong., 3 Sess.,
                        4184ff.
               
                     the world. The western nations would find it easier to deal
                    with the Soviets as a member of the family of nations than as an international outcast. Brookhart
                    stressed the possible commercial advantages that might accrue from restoration of normal relations
                    as the Russians were in need of the very types of goods which America had to export. La Follette
                    argued that the Russian people could establish any type of government that they liked, and the
                    Communist state was at least as respectable as 
                        Italy
                     under Mussolini or some of the Latin American dictatorships. On at least two occasions
                    Borah introduced resolutions into the Senate calling for the immediate recognition of the 
                        Soviet Union
                    . Though these proposals never came to a vote, Borah used the hearings as an opportunity
                    to explain the arguments for recognition to the general public. In this he received wide publicity
                    in the nation's press.35
            
            In his 1924 campaign for the presidency La Follette devoted one speech to foreign policy proposals in
                    which he called for recognition of the 
                        Soviet Union
                    . The number of advocates of resumption of normal diplomatic relations with Russia
                    steadily grew. Bronson Cutting, William King, Wheeler, and Norris all came out in favor of
                    recognition. The fact that a private Russian trading company, Amtorg, was steadily increasing trade
                    with the 
                        United States
                     on an informal basis and that such American firms as General Electric, Ford, and Du
                    Pont were doing business in this fashion lent an economic argument to the drive for recognition.
                    With the coming of the depression many progressives, including Borah, came to look upon Russian
                    recognition as a means to stimulate trade and to help bring a return of prosperity to the 
                        United States
                    . This trade, argued Borah, would be worth billions.36
            
            By the time of the Progressive Conference in 
                        Washington
                     in March of 1931, liberals throughout the nation were overwhelmingly in favor of
                    recognition. The 
                        New York
                     Times observed that sentiment for recognition was now general and quoted Charles A.
                    Beard with obvious approval to the effect that Russia should be recognized now. Well before the
                    election 
                  
                     35
                            Congressional Record, 68 Cong., 1 Sess., 228; La
                                Follette's Magazine, XVI (January, 1924), 1, 5.
                  
                     36
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, October 11, 1924; The Literary Digest, XCIX
                            (November 10, 1928), 12, ibid., CII (August 17, 1929), 8; The
                                Nation, CXXXII (February 18, 1931), 168.
               
                     of 1932 and the advent of FDR and the New Deal, cultural
                    recognition had been accomplished (nine thousand Americans visited the USSR in 1931); and such
                    varied public figures as Hiram Johnson, A1 Smith, Robert La Follette, Jr., Alben Barkley, William
                    Allen White, and H. V. Kaltenborn had all spoken in favor of renewed diplomatic and commercial
                    relations with the 
                        Soviet Union
                    . It remained only for a change of administration for recognition to be accomplished.37
            
            There remains the task of describing the bridge whereby the progressives of the twenties, together
                    with their intellectual and political baggage, made their way across to the New Deal in 1932 and
                    1933. The way is rather clearly marked. George Norris had, as he called it, "crossed the
                    Rubicon" in 1928, abandoned the Republican party, and supported A1 Smith. In 1932 he was a
                    close and respected advisor of FDR, especially on matters of public power. Burton K. Wheeler, La
                    Follette's running mate in 1924, came out for Roosevelt in 1930, saying that the 
                        New York
                     governor more nearly typified the "progressive thought of the nation"
                    than anyone else in public life. Harold Ickes, the old Bull Moose Progressive of 1912, had deserted
                    the Republicans in 1928. In 1932 he actively campaigned for FDR and organized the Western
                    Independent Republicans for Roosevelt.38
            
            Most of the survivors of the La Follette Progressive campaign of 1924—La Follette, Jr.,
                    Wheeler, Cutting, and others—were ready to join in the drive to restore a liberal
                    government under Roosevelt. Norris had drawn cheers and applause when he told the audience at the
                    Progressive Conference in 1931 that the country would not get progressive legislation until it got a
                    progressive president, "another Roosevelt." They agreed with Norris that FDR was
                    the "only hope of the country."39
            
            It is surprising how many of the bright young men and women who had battled with TR at the Bull Moose
                    Convention in 1912, marched with Woodrow Wilson under the 
                  
                     37
                            
                                New York
                             Times, February 1, March 12, 1931, March 22, 1932; George Soule, "An
                            American Policy Toward Russia," The New Republic, LXVII (June 3,
                            1931), 61-65; Joseph Baines, "Cultural Recognition of Russia," The Nation,
                            XXXIV (May 18, 1932), 565.
                  
                     38 Norris, Fighting Liberal, 266, 286; Alfred Lief,
                                Democracy's Norris: The Biography of a Lonely Crusade (
                                New York
                            , 1939), 375-79; Harold L. Ickes, The Secret Diary of Harold L.
                                Ickes (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, vii-ix.
                  
                     39 Schlesinger, The Crisis of the Old Order, 278,
                            417; Frank Freidel, 
                        
                                    Franklin
                                 D. Roosevelt: The Triumph (
                                New York
                            , 1966), 279.
               
                     New Freedom banner the same year, or absorbed the liberal
                    philosophy of social workers Jane Addams, Lillian Wald, and Florence Kelley, remained to support 
                        Franklin
                     Roosevelt in 1932 and to help organize the New Deal.
            Among the Bull Moose Progressives who answered the call to support another Roosevelt a generation
                    later, in addition to Ickes and Norris, were such younger men as Gifford Pinchot, Donald Richberg,
                    Henry A. Wallace, Francis Biddle, Felix Frankfurter, and Dean Acheson. Among the young followers of
                    Wilson (in addition to Roosevelt himself) who played important roles in the New Deal were Cordell
                    Hull, John N. Garner, Sam Rayburn, and Homer Cummings. Hull House, Henry Street, and other
                    settlement houses had trained Henry Morganthau, Jr., Herbert Lehman, Adolph A. Berle, Jr., Frances
                    Perkins, Sidney Hillman, Joseph B. Eastman, and a young man fresh from Grinnell College in 
                        Iowa
                    , Harry Hopkins. Of these Frances Perkins, Morganthau, and Hopkins had all served FDR in 
                        Albany
                    . Somewhere in this list belongs Fiorello La Guardia, a progressive Republican who had
                    not supported the Republican party since 1920 (if then). All of these, and more, campaigned for FDR
                    in 1932 and joyfully accepted assignments as offered in the New Deal program that followed. Indeed,
                    they had no other place to go. Progressivism became respectable again in high places, liberalism was
                    in the saddle, and the pattern of reform was resumed.40
            
            From the vantage point of more than thirty years, the dozen or so years of progressive eclipse during
                    the days of Normalcy and the New Era do not seem so long. It is evident that during these years
                    Progressivism was not dead but simply temporarily interrupted, divided, and lacking in effective
                    leadership. In many areas reform continued to display surprising vigor. Progressives, found in
                    intellectual circles, in city reform crusades, in state administrations, and in an outspoken
                    minority in Congress, provided a bridge for the ideas and ideals of the Progressive Era to cross
                    over the twenties to the New Deal. Then with the rise of new and dynamic progressive leadership, the
                    reformers flocked to 
                        Franklin
                     D. Roosevelt's banner to resume the American pragmatic pattern of protest
                    and reform. More than thirty years later it is still going on.
            
               
                  40 Garrett, The La Guardia Years, 119-20; Schlesinger,
                            The Crisis of the Old Order, 25-26, 421-22; Freidel, 
                                Franklin
                             D. Roosevelt: The Triumph, 241-60, 360-71.
            
         
         
         
            Beveridge and the Election of 1912: Progressive Idealist or Political Realist
            James R. Parker*
            
            In 1912 the Republican party was in serious trouble both on the national level and in such key states
                    as Indiana. The difficulty was rooted in the growing insurgency within its ranks. Some of its most
                    important leaders were dissatisfied with the party leadership and particularly with President
                    William Howard Taft. The conflict became so acute that before the end of the year it split the
                    Republican party into two organizations, the regular Republicans and the new Progressive party. Each
                    offered a slate of candidates and a platform.
            One of the significant converts to the Progressive party caught up in the turmoil was former
                    Republican Senator Albert J. Beveridge of Indiana. Beveridge had become a 
                        United States
                     Senator in 1899, won re-election in 1904, but in 1910 experienced defeat at the polls.
                    In that year Beveridge found that he could not control his own party organization. The national GOP
                    organization gave him little support and conservative administration supporters of Indiana, the
                    party "regulars" intrigued against him, eroding intraparty cooperation.
            By 1912 it appeared that Beveridge's political career was at a crossroads. The Republican
                    nominating convention again chose Taft as its presidential candidate and endorsed conservatism.
                    Former president Theodore Roosevelt, who had become disillusioned with Taft's policies,
                    bolted the Republicans and formed the Progressive party. Roosevelt became the new party's
                    presidential nominee and the Republican split was complete. Beveridge now faced the alternative of
                    either leaving the Republican party or abandoning his political future with the increasingly
                    progressive-minded Indiana electorate. Theodore Roosevelt's new party afforded a possible
                    solution. Thus, the former senator seized upon the opportunity to promote various reform ideas and
                    thereby salvage and advance his political career. Beveridge's need to keep 
                  
                     * James R. Parker is a graduate assistant at the University
                            of 
                                Maryland
                            , College Park, 
                                Maryland
                            .
               
                     pace with his constituency for purposes of political survival
                    seemingly was as much responsible for his bolt to the Progressive party as his professed motives of
                    personal friendship or idealistic convictions.1
            
            The Democratic party with Woodrow Wilson, the governor of 
                        New Jersey
                    , as its presidential candidate took advantage of the Republican split and rode the
                    reform wave to victory. The Progressives never recovered from their defeat and in 1916 Beveridge
                    returned to the Republicans, thus ending a short and futile chapter in his political career.
            Beveridge's difficulties with his Republican colleagues began in 1904. In both the state
                    and national organizations these conflicts destroyed political cooperation and opened a breach
                    between Beveridge and Taft's administration.2 These differences
                    centered on federal patronage and on the Hoosier's tendency to align himself with the
                    Senate insurgents who opposed such legislation as the Payne-Aldrich Tariff.3
                    Beveridge's commitment to Theodore Roosevelt, due to their similar political philosophies
                    and bond of personal friendship, also damaged the senator's political relationship with
                    Taft. These issues contributed to Beveridge's defeat in November, 1910. His memory of the
                    bitter conflict during the campaign tended to make the senator more critical of his party and
                    promoted an inclination to doubt his future in it.
            Beveridge encountered his first major problem in Indiana in 1910. He met the wrath of the
                    administration when he opposed the Payne-Aldrich Tariff. Taft had promised a lower tariff, but when
                    it emerged the rates were higher than Beveridge honestly could support. He stated that 
                  
                     
                        "he had never seen anything to compare with the popular hatred of this
                                    tariff bill."
                     
                  
               
               4 His constituents encouraged his support of a more scientific,
                    non-partisan method of tariff making. 
                  
                     1 In Beveridge and the Progressive Era (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1932), 421-23, Claude Bowers assesses and ascribes the motives in
                            Albert J. Beveridge's decision to join the Progressive party. Bowers stresses the
                            senator's idealistic professions and ties of personal friendship in that
                            decision. He states that Beveridge chose his course reluctantly and in order to create the
                            ideal of a truly liberal national political party. The reader is left with
                            Bower's acceptance of Beveridge's idealism as a primary motivation for
                            his decision.
                  
                     2
                            ibid., 258, 259, 283, 284.
                  
                     3
                            ibid., 296.
                  
                     4 Beveridge to Amos Pinchot, March 24, 1910, Beveridge Papers
                            (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress).
               
                     Thus, the senator believed he could not straddle the tariff
                    issue for it might cost him his re-election.5
            
            Beveridge worked for a resolution condemning the Payne-Aldrich Tariff at the Indiana Republican State
                    Convention. Anything less than condemnation would indicate a lack of unity and support for the
                    senator. He knew that the regular wing of the party, the Taft supporters, would oppose such a
                    resolution and he feared their success because of their close connections to powerful
                    "interests" with a "good deal of money."6
                    Moreover, he thought his enemies would even try to secure an endorsement of the Payne-Aldrich Tariff
                    in the state platform.7
            
            When the Republican state convention met in April, 1910, Beveridge delivered a speech in which he
                    condemned the stand-pat element of the party for allegedly destroying the essence of his proposed
                    non-partisan tariff commission. The senator went further in attacking the Payne-Aldrich Tariff as an
                    unjust measure.8 In assailing administration legislation and the regular members
                    of the party, Beveridge carried the convention in the battle against the pro-Payne-Aldrich forces,
                    but he opened a political breach for himself that would never entirely heal. The "Old
                    Guard" in the party would remember its defeat.
            After his success in gaining a rejection of the tariff act at the state convention Beveridge
                    experienced defeat and embarrassment. The party leaders of each of Indiana's thirteen
                    districts met separately in March to consider an endorsement of the state platform. Under the
                    influence of party regulars, three of the thirteen districts endorsed the tariff act rather than the
                    state platform's resolution condemning it.9
            
            Within the GOP nationally, the senator's insurgency on the tariff made him unpopular with
                    Taft. The President sought advice on Indiana affairs from Beveridge much less frequently than
                        previously.10 The Hoosier blamed this diminishing 
                  
                     6 Beveridge to Edwin Lee, March 24, 1910, ibid.
                  
                  
                     7 Beveridge to Albert Shaw, March 9, 1910, ibid.
                  
                  
                     7 Beveridge to John C. Shaffer, March 10, 1910, ibid.
                  
                  
                     8 Beveridge, Platform Speech, Box 303, ibid.
                  
                  
                     9 Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era, 389.
                  
                     10 Beveridge to Harry W. Bennett, March 16, 1910, Beveridge Papers;
                            Beveridge to Mrs. Beveridge, June 29, 1910, quoted in Bowers, Beveridge and the
                                Progressive Era, 377.
               
                     influence on regular Republicans who circulated critical
                    personal rumors about him.11 Beveridge, and for well-founded cause, suspected
                    that Taft intended to punish him for his insurgency on the tariff. In early March, 1910, the
                    President and Senator Nelson W. Aldrich of 
                        Rhode Island
                     privately discussed the Hoosier's activities. They agreed that
                    Beveridge's opposition to administration proposals warranted a loss of patronage with an
                    implied goal of forcing him out of the party.12 Shortly afterwards, Taft and
                    Speaker of the House Joe Cannon concluded that all the insurgents were out to "make
                    trouble." Both Aldrich and Cannon agreed to support the President if he opposed them.13 Secretary of the Treasury 
                        Franklin
                     MacVeagh, a close friend of Beveridge, asked Taft to aid the Hoosier in his re-election
                    bid. The President refused the request because he feared that if he aided Beveridge he would lose
                    Cannon's legislative support for his programs.14
            
            In June, 1910, the rift between Taft and Beveridge broadened. In a personal confrontation the
                    President angrily denied the senator a patronage request, stating it was because Beveridge had
                    opposed his administration.15 The Hoosier pretended he could not
                    "fathom Administration patronage policy" and branded it "alien and
                    repugnant." Up to this point he had not encountered much patronage discrimination, but that
                    experience was an ominous indication that he was "to suffer from this time on."16
            
            As the 1910 campaign approached, the breach between Beveridge and the regular wing of the party
                    threatened to grow wider. The senator, understandably, feared the power of the regulars. He thought
                    he might lose the election if they convinced other Republicans that he should be punished for his
                    independent attitude.17
            
            
               
                  11 Beveridge to R. B. Breed, April 14, 1910, Beveridge Papers; Beveridge
                        to John Hayes, April 12, 1910, ibid.; Beveridge to Rudolph Leeds, April 3,
                        1910, ibid.
               
               
                  12 [Archibald W. Butt], Taft and Roossvelt: The Intimate
                            Letters of Archie Butt, Military Aide (2 vols., 
                            Garden City
                        , N.Y., 1930), I, 301.
               
                  13
                        ibid., 303.
               
                  14
                        ibid., 355, 356.
               
                  15 Beveridge to Mrs. Beveridge, June 29, 1910, quoted in Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era, 383.
               
                  16 Beveridge to Albert Cummins, July 12, 1910, Beveridge Papers. See also
                        Cummins to Beveridge, July 7, 1910, ibid.
               
               
                  17 Beveridge to Ray Stannard Baker, August 11, 1910, ibid.
               
            
            
            Under the circumstances Beveridge turned more and more toward Theodore Roosevelt for both direct and
                    indirect help. The Hoosier tried to get the former president to join other anti-administration
                    forces in opposition to the Payne-Aldrich Tariff but failed to get this support.18
            
            Roosevelt agreed to give Beveridge only one day of his campaign time but when he reached Indiana
                    unscheduled delays forced him to pass up several meetings. His trip was a fiasco for another reason.
                    Before campaigning in Indiana, Roosevelt declared his support for the tariff act at the 
                        New York
                     Republican State Convention.19 Moreover, he later declared his
                    support for an administration regular, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge of 
                        Massachusetts
                    .20 Thus Roosevelt's influence probably was not
                    beneficial.
            The campaign was bitterly fought and centered around the question of who was the truer progressive.
                    Beveridge's strategy was to attract the votes of progressive Democrats, but the record as
                    a progressive of the Democratic nominee, John Worth Kern, prevented the senator from diverting these
                    votes to himself.
            After Kern defeated him in November, 1910, Beveridge assessed his role in the GOP and concluded that
                    regular Republicans impeded his success.21 He thought the defeat was partially
                    his party's and Taft's responsibility. In a more cynical mood he wrote that
                    "the administration did not throw us more than six or seven billion votes."22
            
            Kern's victory reaffirmed Beveridge's earlier views of the trend in American
                    politics. Beveridge believed in the power of "progressive" ideas. He thought his
                    constituents supported policies which would end corruption and tended to give greater opportunity,
                    protection, and security to the individual. Any candidate who supported these ideas would have the
                    greater opportunity for election.23 "[Progressivism] 
                  
                     18 Beveridge to James A. Garfield, July 13, 1910, ibid.; Beveridge to Theodore Roosevelt, April 21, 1910, ibid.
                  
                  
                     19
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, September 28, 1910.
                  
                     20
                            ibid., October 23, 1910.
                  
                     21 Beveridge to Shaw, September 5, 1910, Beveridge Papers; Beveridge
                            to Cummins, September 16, 1910, ibid.; Beveridge to Samuel Blythe,
                            September 2, 1910, ibid.
                  
                  
                     22 Beveridge to William H. Lorimer, November 17, 1910, ibid. See also Beveridge to Blythe, November 11, 1910, ibid.;
                            Beveridge to Philander C. Knox, November 11, 1910, ibid.
                  
                  
                     23 Beveridge to Blythe, September 20, 1910, ibid.;
                            Beveridge to Lorimer, September 2, 1910, ibid.
                  
               
                     is a great historic movement," wrote Beveridge,
                    "which will exalt any man who represents it and crush any man who gets in its
                        way."24 The Indiana voters were not completely in accord with these
                    views since they were not as committed to progressive ideas as were 
                        Wisconsin
                     voters, for example. Then, too, Beveridge's isolation from Taft prompted him
                    to inflate the power of Progressivism. Nevertheless, progressive ideas did have appeal in Indiana
                    and the profession of such concepts was necessary for political success. Beveridge realized this
                    fact, especially after his 1910 defeat.
            Throughout 1911 and into 1912 Beveridge insisted that he had retired from politics. He spent part of
                    1911 vacationing in 
                        Canada
                     and 
                        Switzerland
                    . Publicly he maintained a neutrality in political feuds. When questioned about possible
                    presidential aspirations, Beveridge replied that he had been commissioned to write articles, had
                    little time for politics, and considered such speculation as an "absurd
                        proposition."25 "I am out of politics," wrote
                    Beveridge, "and hope to be permitted to stay out." He would not return unless the
                    "call of sheer duty" compelled his return.26
            
            Nevertheless, Beveridge's private actions were not those of a retired politician. In
                    December, 1910, he had tried to restore his relations with the administration. He met with
                    Postmaster General Frank Hitchcock in an attempt to solve patronage problems and thought he had been
                        successful.27 The next month he met with President Taft, and the
                    senator's advisors felt this discussion had improved their political relations.28 But by December, 1911, relations between the President and the former senator
                    had deteriorated again. Taft ignored Beveridge and his supporters in Indiana, an affront which
                    Beveridge thought unreasonable. "Nobody," wrote Beveridge, "knows why Mr.
                    Taft does the things [he does] and admits to other things he does not do."29 As a result, the Hoosier was "not feeling too friendly to Mr. Taft."30
            
            
               
                  24 Beveridge to Gifford Pinchot, March 24, 1910, ibid.
               
               
                  25 Gilson Gardner to Beveridge, December 1, 1911, ibid.;
                        Beveridge to Gardner, December 5, 1911, ibid.
               
               
                  26 Beveridge to Fred Miller, December 19, 1911, ibid.
               
               
                  27 Beveridge to Hayes, December 13, 18, 1910, ibid.
               
               
                  28 Hayes to Beveridge, January 11, 1911, ibid.
               
               
                  29 Beveridge to Thomas E. Hibben, December 29, 1911, ibid. See also Beveridge to Robert DePauw, December 20, 1911, ibid.;
                        Beveridge to Shaffer, December 19, 1911, ibid.
               
               
                  30 Beveridge to Hayes, May 1, 1911, ibid.
               
            
            
            The ex-senator's friends thought Taft's future with the national electorate
                    would be a poor one and considered him an unsatisfactory choice as the Republican standard-bearer in
                        1912.31 These friends suspected Taft's policies would prevent his
                        renomination.32
            
            Beveridge did not want to lose the influence he had acquired in Indiana. He proposed that the
                    Republicans in the state assembly develop their own legislative program based upon such popular
                    ideas as the initiative, referendum, and direct primary; and he implied a willingness to lead the
                    campaign for the adoption of these principles in Indiana.33 None of these
                    actions depicted a retired politician.
            In 1911 the party schism in the state organization continued. Beveridge's goal in these
                    factional feuds was to remain aloof. John Hayes, Beveridge's secretary and one of his
                    most trusted advisors, made a suggestion. He feared Beveridge would become involved in controversies
                    that could only work to his disadvantage if he were in Indiana. The secretary thought there was a
                    regular Republican plot to "annihilate" Beveridge politically. Hayes counseled him
                    to stay in 
                        Switzerland
                     until October to preserve his political independence and Beveridge followed this
                        advice.34 Even when he returned to Indiana in mid-October 1911, Beveridge
                    remained formally uncommitted to any course of action that might jeopardize his independent
                    position. Nevertheless, rather than becoming less involved in political action, the Hoosier became
                    committed to a reorganization of his Indiana corps of followers.35 This was not
                    political retirement.
            Beveridge's activities from 1910 to 1912—his grip on his organization, his
                    avoidance of feuds and commitments—portrayed a politician waiting to see the direction in
                    which the political winds blew. Yet he continued to insist that he had retired from the political
                    arena. He had not the "slightest thought of being a candidate … for any other
                    office." "Public questions interest me profoundly," he wrote,
                    "but the pulling and hauling of politics interests me not at all."36
            
            
               
                  31 Gifford Pinchot to Beveridge, November 26, 1910, July 18, 1911, ibid.; Cummins to Beveridge, July 3, 1911, ibid.
               
               
                  32 George Perkins to Beveridge, July 13, 1911, ibid.;
                        Gifford Pinchot to Beveridge, July 18, 1911, ibid.
               
               
                  33 Beveridge to Hayes, December 20, 1910, ibid.
               
               
                  34 Hayes to Beveridge, September 8, 1911, ibid.
               
               
                  35 Beveridge to Gardner, November 29, 1911, ibid.
               
               
                  36 Beveridge to O. G. Atherton, January 14, 1912, ibid.
                        See also Beveridge to Ernest Bross, January 27, 1912, ibid.
               
            
            
            By February of 1912 the pressures on Beveridge to declare his political stand began to increase. He
                    clearly could not support Taft. Senator Robert M. La Follette, the 
                        Wisconsin
                     progressive Republican, also had presidential ambitions, and his campaign managers had
                    been trying to persuade the ex-senator to support their candidate. But La Follette's
                    momentary illness took him out of the race. Even after Roosevelt declared himself a candidate for
                    the Republican presidential nomination on February 21, the ex-senator remained uncommitted to any
                    course of action. Theoretically, the choice was Taft, Roosevelt, or true retirement. Since Beveridge
                    was personally attached and politically indebted to Roosevelt, there was, in reality, little choice.
                    On February 29, 1912, Beveridge declared his support for Roosevelt's Republican
                        candidacy.37
            
            Beveridge soon completed the break with Taft. He commented acidly on his belief that Taft forced his
                    officeholders to oppose Roosevelt with the threat of dismissal from office.38 In
                    one particular speech Beveridge declared that he owed Taft no support because the President had
                    failed to become an adequate party leader.39 "The trouble is not with
                    Mr. Taft's conservativism," Beveridge wrote, "but with his peculiar
                    variability and his inability to get things done."40 With these remarks
                    Beveridge made it almost impossible ever to regain the President's confidence were Taft
                    renominated.
            Aware of the fact that his image would suffer if Taft received the nomination, and he were tied to
                    the President, Beveridge could not support him. A man who could neither lead nor win votes for the
                    party deserved no consideration. Beveridge was "absolutely convinced" that Taft
                    could not "possibly be elected."41 "The Lord
                    knows," he wrote, "how I am going to line up for Taft if he is nominated
                    … but doubtless [the Lord] will show me."42 It seemed
                    nothing could force Beveridge to commit the political suicide that would almost certainly ensue
                    after a rapprochment with Taft.
            
               
                  37
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, March 1, 1912.
               
                  38 Beveridge to Richard W. Knott, March 4, 1912, Beveridge Papers;
                        Beveridge to J. C. O'Laughlin, March 4, 1912, ibid.
               
               
                  39 Beveridge, 
                            Chicago
                         Speech, March 19, 1912, Box 304, ibid.
               
               
                  40 Beveridge to John B. Cooner, March 22, 1912, ibid.
               
               
                  41 Beveridge to R. S. Taylor, March 23, 1912, ibid.
               
               
                  42 Beveridge to S. L. Brengle, March 22, 1912, ibid.
               
            
            
            In March, 1912, Indiana held its state primaries in which each of the thirteen districts elected two
                    delegates to the national party convention. The initial results showed Roosevelt delegates
                    outnumbering Taft supporters by a five to four ratio, but both Taft and Roosevelt managers contested
                    the count in several districts. Although he had no evidence, Beveridge blamed the Republican
                    regulars for the lack of a clear-cut Roosevelt victory and accused them of corrupt and unethical
                        practices.43
            
            The Indiana Republican State Convention met in April and chose four Taft delegates-at-large to attend
                    the national Republican convention. Beveridge ascribed this choice to questionable political
                    practices, but again he could not prove his allegations.44
            
            At the end of April and in early May Beveridge went on a campaign tour for Roosevelt through the
                    western states. Upon his return the Hoosier stated that he thought he had fulfilled his obligations
                    to Roosevelt and repeated his assertion that he was "through with politics."45
            
            If Beveridge wished to remain in politics, as his actions seem to indicate, the realities of the
                    situation required alliance with Roosevelt. "I decline [to campaign]," Beveridge
                    wrote, "then comes Theodore Roosevelt himself and there is nothing to do but to
                        consent."46 As the Republican national convention approached,
                    Beveridge reaffirmed his loyalty to Roosevelt. "I shall stand by Roosevelt," he
                    wrote, "until the last gun is fired and the last ounce of powder is exhausted."47
            
            The nomination of Taft in June, 1912, at the Republican National Convention threw Beveridge into a
                    quandary. Despite his desire to remain in politics, his split with the regular Republicans seemed
                    irreparable. Since his future with the Taft wing of the Republican party was very insecure, the only
                    successful political future available to Beveridge seemed to be alliance with Roosevelt. The
                    latter's decision to bolt the Republican party and form the Progressive party added 
                  
                     43 Beveridge to J. A. Kaotz, March 29, 1912, ibid.;
                            Beveridge to Shaffer, March 28,1912, ibid.; Beveridge to Cummins, April 6,
                            1912, ibid.
                  
                  
                     44 Beveridge to Edgar Baldwin, April 1, 1912, ibid.;
                            Beveridge to Arthur J. Little, April 2, 1912, ibid.
                  
                  
                     45 Beveridge to Shaw, May 16, 1912, ibid. See also
                            Beveridge to Frank 
                                Knox
                            , May 19, 1912, ibid.
                  
                  
                     46 Beveridge to Lorimer, May 25, 1912, ibid.
                  
                  
                     47 Beveridge to Chase Osborn, June 10, 1912, ibid.
                  
                  112
               
                     another element to an already confused situation. Nevertheless,
                    it presented Beveridge with a clear choice: remain with a politically unattractive candidate and
                    party from which he had been alienated, or join a colleague to whom he had a personal and political
                    attachment and the new Progressive party. In view of what Beveridge believed about the public
                    opinion of his constituents, the Republican platform was too conservative for political success.
            Edwin Lee and Leo Rothschild, two of Beveridge's political lieutenants, contributed
                    contradictory opinions to him. Lee suggested that to avoid joining Roosevelt's party
                    would be a tacit alignment with the "Old Guard" machines, and to refuse a
                    commitment either way would certainly mean political death.48 Rothschild
                    counseled Beveridge to "lay low for a considerable time" since his decision would,
                    in reality, depend upon whom the Democrats might nominate. Rothschild distrusted Roosevelt and he
                    even urged the former senator to avoid news interviews. The regulars figure, wrote Rothschild, that
                    if you leave the Republican party, "it will put you in such a position that they will not
                    have to contend with you in the future."49 Beveridge temporarily chose
                    to follow Rothschild's advice while deciding upon whom he would support. Although
                    hesitant, there was no question of his involvement; he had not retired.
            With the Democratic convention's nomination of Wilson in July, 1912,
                    Beveridge's friends and advisors pressured him for a decision. One supporter felt that to
                    remain silent would be tantamount to "playing politics."50 Lee
                    continued to encourage Beveridge to join Roosevelt's Progressives. "Your silence
                    at this critical time," wrote Lee, "will be taken advantage of by your enemies and
                    the seeds of suspicion against your sincerity will … be sown."51 In a second letter Lee indicated that in Indiana the Progressive party could expect between
                    80 and 95 percent of the Republican vote, 10 to 30 percent of the Democratic vote, and a majority of
                    the independent vote.52
            
            
               
                  48 Lee to Beveridge, June 28, 1912, ibid.
               
               
                  49 L. G. Rothschild to Beveridge, July 3, 4, 5, 1912, ibid.
               
               
                  50 Lorimer to Beveridge, July 8, 1912, ibid.
               
               
                  51 Lee to Beveridge, July 5, 1912, ibid.
               
               
                  52 Lee to Beveridge, July 18, 1912, ibid.
               
            
            
            Beveridge continued to postpone a decision. Throughout early July he received letters either urging
                    him to join the new party or requesting his reasons for remaining silent. In answering these letters
                    he revealed some of his real political motives. The former senator had joined Roosevelt's
                    campaign for the Republican nomination because his constituents believed in progressive ideas. He
                    was also well aware of the political debt he owed Roosevelt as a result of the former
                    president's aid in his 1910 senatorial campaign. But he protested that he had stood by
                    Roosevelt only because of the ex-president's pressures and appeals.53
                    Beveridge admitted that he feared the Progressive party had only one unifying base: Theodore
                    Roosevelt. The Hoosier concluded his thoughts with a statement that he wished to remain inactive.54
            
            Still Beveridge was inclined to adhere to the new movement because it carried a greater promise of
                    political success than if he remained in the Republican party. In late July the Hoosier sought
                    guarantees from the Progressive party leadership that the new party would develop an appealing
                    program of social reforms and become a permanent party, whatever the November election results. His
                    close friends John Shaffer, publisher of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune and 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, and George W. Perkins, associated with 
                        United States
                     Steel and International Harvester, among others, promised the fulfillment of these
                        conditions.55 This agreement seems to have been the final factor in
                    Beveridge's decision to join the Progressive party.
            On July 25 Beveridge made his decision public. He published a letter in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star setting forth the reasons for his decision. He justified his choice on idealistic
                    grounds. He stated that frauds in the old party and the promise of a better system through
                    Roosevelt's party were in part responsible. The Progressive party presented the
                    opportunity to join a truly national, liberal, and nonsectional party. The contemporary party
                    organizations based on sectionalism, without a coherent and consistent philosophy, and influenced by
                    boss systems, were illogical and dangerous. Because of these considerations Beveridge wrote that he
                    had 
                  
                     53 Beveridge to Leeds, July 15, 1912, ibid.
                  
                  
                     54 Beveridge to Lee, July 12, 1912, ibid.
                  
                  
                     55 Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive Era,
                        423.
               
                     abandoned the Republican party to become a member of the
                    Progressive party.56
            
            These reasons, viewed critically, were designed for popular appeal. Almost all were the remarks of a
                    politician skilled in appealing to his constituents. The historian, however, on the basis of such
                    evidence, must be careful in ascribing motives. Those which Beveridge professed had some bearing on
                    his decision, but they must remain secondary. Nor is the fact that some of Beveridge's
                    closest friends were involved in the new party enough to account for his choice. Beveridge split
                    with his party at the state and national levels and refused to accept Taft as the party's
                    presidential nominee. He became politically attached to Roosevelt and acquired a strong belief in
                    the power of progressive ideas and programs with his constituents. These factors, plus an abiding
                    desire to remain a politician, and his belief that political success could now come to him only in
                    the Progressive party certainly must have carried more weight than his professed motives. To remain
                    in the Republican party would have appeared to the electorate as an abdication of principle. If he
                    were to continue in politics Beveridge really had no choice but to join the new party. First and
                    foremost he was a politician. It is closer to reality to believe that it was primarily for these
                    latter reasons, rather than those he publicly professed, that Albert J. Beveridge joined the
                    Progressive party of 1912.
            
               
                  56 Beveridge to W. H. Dye, quoted in the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, July 25, 1912; Beveridge, "The Launching and Wrecking of the
                        Progressive Party," Box 305, Beveridge Papers. This article, written in June, 1916, was
                        intended for publication in the Saturday Evening Post. In it Beveridge
                        maintains essentially the same position regarding his reasons for joining the Progressive party.
                        See also Beveridge to Joe Bristow, December 28, 1912, ibid.; Beveridge to
                        Shaffer, June 19, 1916, ibid.; Beveridge to Lorimer, June 16, 1916, ibid.
               
            
         
         
         
            "Thank God We Are Americans": Yankees Abroad on the Fourth of July
            Robert Pettus Hay*
            
            
                    Sojourning Americans-May you all be ready at your country's call.
                        Toast drunk at Montreal, Fourth of July, 1811.
                  1
               
                    The travelling spirit—if it takes our countrymen from home for the> purpose
                        of improvement or amusement, it will always conduct them back in search of liberty and
                        happiness. Toast drunk at 
                                Paris
                            , Fourth of July, 1826.
                  2
               
                
            Most foreign travelers in the 
                        United States
                     during the nineteenth century searched constantly for the distinctively American, and
                    probably nothing was more truly American in that era than Fourth of July celebrations. The
                    anniversary was a multifaceted occasion. Although a gala holiday filled with eating and drinking and
                    singing, it was not all firecrackers and fun because it had a serious, almost holy side. It was,
                    explained a Kentuckian in 1813, "The political Sabbath of the American patriot; sacred to
                    virtue, liberty and independence."3
            
            In 1819 William Faux, a British traveler, attended one such celebration of the nation's
                    birthday in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . The Fourth of July, he observed, "is brother Jonathan's immortal
                    universal festival. Roaring cannon and merrily ringing bells salute the morn, and, until midnight,
                    all is frolic and hilarity, from one end of this mighty empire to the other."4 Faux was right as far as he went. He should have added, however, that throughout the
                    nineteenth century the Fourth of July was also remembered with enthusiasm by 
                  
                     * Robert Pettus Hay is lecturer in history at the
                            University of 
                        Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky
                     .
                  
                     1
                            Niles' Weekly Register, I (October 12, 1811), 103.
                  
                     2
                            ibid., XXX (August 19, 1826), 432.
                  
                     3
                            
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     , Reporter, July 10, 1813.
                  
                     4 William Faux, Memorable Days in America: Being a
                                Journal of a Tour of the 
                                    United States
                                , Principally Undertaken to Ascertain, by Postive Evidence, the Condition
                                and Probable Prospects of British Emigrants … (
                                London
                            , 1823), 96.
               
                     Yankees abroad. He might even have noted that those foreigners
                    who considered themselves the well-wishers of the liberal experiment being conducted in the West
                    sometimes eagerly participated in those holiday festivities which took place outside
                    America's borders.
            An early Fourth of July observance on foreign soil occurred at Montreal in 1811 where "A
                    considerable body of Americans celebrated … with great glee." Their residence on
                    British soil in that year of Anglo-American crisis turned the Americans' thoughts to
                    "Our country—May she never doubt the fidelity of her absent sons in the hour of
                    danger." There was also an energetic saluate to "Brother Jonathan—May
                    his great gun be loaded with true American principles, wadded with traitors, and pointed at the
                    enemies of liberty. Yankee doodle." Nor did they forget to toast that old battle cry of
                    freemen, "Yankee doodle—More powerful than the shouts of rams' horns,
                    which brought down the walls of ancient Jericho."5
            
            Americans in 
                        Paris
                     were also adept at yankee-doodling on the Fourth of July. Year after year the glorious
                    day was recalled in the French capital. On these occasions the banners of the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        France
                     "waved gracefully together,"6 but the toasts were
                    "truly American."7 The Marquis de 
                        Lafayette
                     usually joined the reveling Yankees on that day, for, as he said, he delighted in
                    breathing with them "the American atmosphere."8 During the
                    course of the ceremony the old general was normally the subject of a flamboyant toast. In 1828 James 
                        Brown
                    , the minister to 
                        France
                    , and his fellow Americans lifted their wine glasses high in honor of "Our
                    venerable guest, general 
                        Lafayette
                    , whose name, associated with that of our 
                        Washington
                    , will descend with imperishable renown to the latest posterity."9 The marquis could always be counted on for an appropriate reply. In 1817 he saluted
                    "The friends of liberty in both hemispheres—and may the doctrine of rights every
                    where prevail over the doctrine of privileges."10 With the impressions
                    gained on his grand 
                  
                     5
                            Niles' Weekly Register, I (October 12, 1811), 103.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., XXX (August 19, 1826), 432.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., XVII (September 4, 1819), 16.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., XXXVII (August 29, 1829), 5.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., XXXV (September 13, 1828), 36-37.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., XII (September 27, 1817), 79.
               
                     tour of America still fresh in his mind, he responded to the
                    1826 toast in his honor by lavishing praise upon the "new social order, which has already
                    pervaded the American hemisphere, and cannot fail more and more to enlighten and enfranchise the
                    world." 
                        Lafayette
                     was certain that anyone who lived for a time in each hemisphere, as he had, would be
                    appalled by the contrast. Thus with complete assurance he predicted that the more Americans
                    "see of Europe, the more they will be attached to the institutions of their own
                        country."11
            
            This idea the general repeated at almost every Fourth of July fete he attended.12
                    According to the marquis, the American Revolution had inaugurated a new era in political history,
                    and the natural rights of man which that revolution had upheld would eventually become the basis of
                    all governments. Warning the Yankees not to admit any European elements or other "exotic
                    materials" into their matchless constitution, the marquis noted that already the rest of
                    the world was beginning to emulate the glorious example of the Western Republic. 
                        Lafayette
                    , himself an honorary citizen of several cities and states of that Republic, was not
                    being hyperbolical at the 1832 Fourth of July dinner when he declared that "we, as American
                    citizens, take a pride in the endeavors in the several nations on this side of the Atlantic, to
                    imitate, as far as their own circumstances can admit it, those institutions which have insured to
                    the 
                        United States
                     a greater share of practical liberty, legal order, public and individual security, and
                    development of industry than has ever been known in the annals of mankind."13
            
            Although Americans in other foreign cities could seldom boast of so distinguished a Fourth of July
                    guest as 
                        Lafayette
                    , a proper observance of the nation's birthday did not depend so much upon
                    the presence of an illustrious personage as upon the zealous patriotism of the Yankees themselves.
                    There seemed to be no dearth of this animating sentiment in the American residents of Havana in
                    1838. They gathered to pay 
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., XXX (August 19, 1826), 432.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., XXXV (September 13, 1828), 36-37.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., XLIII (September 1, 1832), 6. Other information on Fourth of July
                            celebrations in 
                                Paris
                             may be found in the 
                                Lexington
                            
                            
                        
                                    Kentucky
                                 Reporter, September 16, 1827; Niles' Weekly
                                Register, XXXVI (August 22, 1829), 416; and ibid., XXXIX
                            (September 4, 1830), 23.
               
                     homage to their nation by listening to "a short, but
                    pithy address" and to the reading of the Declaration of Independence; then they gorged
                    themselves on all "the luxuries with which the boards were profusely loaded." And
                    since nothing was so well calculated to bolster one's sagging
                    spirits—patriotic or otherwise—as the wonderful sound of the wine corks
                    popping, they drank the inevitable toasts, including one to "The signers of the Declaration
                    of the Independence of the 
                        United States
                    —Though no longer in the land of the living, the remembrance of their
                    glorious deeds will ever teach the Americans what industry and perseverance can effect under the
                    most desponding circumstances."14
            
            Nor were the thousands who frequently clamored to the celebrations back home required for a
                    remembrance of Brother Jonathan's birthday abroad. Two Americans studying in 
                        Germany
                     conducted their own Fourth of July ceremony in 1820. George Bancroft, the future
                    historian and already an ardent nationalist, delivered a fervid oration; and James Patton read an
                    appropriate poem. "I am sure of it," wrote Bancroft, "never did two
                    Americans deliver a more patriotic oration or more exalted poem, or think toasts more full of love
                    of country than these two forlorn pilgrims at Gottingen." Especially did the young patriots
                    want it understood that their exposure to European culture could not lessen their devotion to
                    "the land where freedom has planted her standard." "My countrymen, we are
                    Americans," Bancroft cried at the close of his oration. "The arts and sciences of
                    Europe cannot make us forget it. Thank God we are Americans."15
            
            More poignant was an observance by Americans abroad through no choice of their own. Yankees captured
                    by the British in the War of 1812 and imprisoned on the HMS Nassau at Chatham, 
                        England
                    , received permission to honor their nation's birthday in 1814. As part of
                    the solemnities one of the captive seamen delivered an oration. Circumstances dictated that he begin
                    with a salutation very different from the "My Fellow Citizens" or "My
                    Fellow Freemen" with which orators usually greeted the holiday throngs. But perhaps no
                    Fourth of July audience was ever hailed more 
                  
                     14
                            
                                Charleston
                            
                            Mercury, quoted in Niles' Weekly Register,
                            LIV (August 4, 1838), 355.
                  
                     15 Orie William Long, Literary Pioneers: Early American
                                Explorers of European Culture (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1936), 124, 126.
               
                     appropriately than were these Americans by the
                    seaman's "MY FELLOW-PRISONERS, AND BELOVED COUNTRYMEN." In considering
                    the current Anglo-American conflict, he railed against "the demagogues, the
                    war-faction" in 
                        England
                     who had learned none of the lessons taught by the American Revolution. Apparently this
                    faction believed that British fleets and armies could crush the young Republic. "Strange
                    infatuation! They have forgotten Bunker's Hill! They have forgotten Saratoga, and
                    Yorktown, when the immortal WASHINGTON with his victorious army chased them through the Jerseys,
                    under the muzzles of their ship's cannon for protection." No, the captive
                    patriot concluded, American freemen would not be divested of their liberties by men-of-war or
                    redcoats. If the British really believed this, they were in for a gigantic surprise, for
                    "they will meet the lads who will play them the tune of Yankee doodle, as well as they did
                    at 
                        Lexington
                    , or Bunker Hill."16
            
            Before the Civil War animosities between the two countries had lessened enough to permit the
                    celebration of the Fourth of July in 
                        London
                    .17 In 1861 Americans living in the British capital had gathered to
                    pledge their allegiance anew to the nation now being bathed in brothers' blood. The
                    patriotic toasts that year were received with "much enthusiasm," especially the
                    one honoring "The stars and stripes now and forever." After the singing of The Star-Spangled Banner, several New Yorkers and Bostonians delivered orations,
                    all of which "evinced strong feelings of patriotism."18 The
                    Fourth of July was celebrated with even greater fervor in the British Isles in the years following
                    the war. The anticipated arbitration of Anglo-American differences, provided for in the Treaty of 
                        Washington
                     (1871), resulted in the observance of the holiday to an unprecedented extent in 
                        London
                     in 1872; and there were special ceremonies at Edinburgh, 
                        Manchester
                    , and Liverpool as well.19 Even at the 
                  
                     16
                            An Oration, Delivered by Permission, on Board the Nassau Prisonship, at
                                Chatham, 
                                    England
                                ; On the Fourth July, 1814. By an American Seaman, Prisoner of War (
                                Boston
                            , 1816), 5-6.
                  
                     17 G. F. Train, Speech, at the Dinner Given at the 
                                    London
                                 Tavern, on the 5th July, 1858, by the American Association in 
                                    London
                                , in Cammemoration of the Eighty Second Anniversary of American
                            Independence (
                                London
                            , [18681).
                  
                     18 Cumberland, 
                                Maryland
                            , Civilian & Telegraph, July 25, 1861.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana State Sentinel, July 9, 1872.
               
                     "brilliant celebration" in 
                        Geneva
                     that year, the peaceful settlement of Anglo-American squabbles was the topic uppermost
                    in the minds of the American revelers and their Swiss guests. Thus, after the usual flamboyant
                    salutes to "Our Country," American diplomats Caleb Cushing and Charles Francis
                    Adams also raised their glasses to honor "Her Majesty, Queen of 
                        England
                    ."20 The Fourth of July had come a long way: having
                    originated in the denunciation of "the tyrant," George III, it was now the
                    occasion for honoring another British sovereign, Victoria. Little wonder, then, that Britons
                    themselves were sometimes happy to join in these festivities.
            Just as some American orators continued to unleash verbal assaults upon their nation's
                    "cruel and tyrannical mother," however, so some Englishmen persisted in pointing
                    out the "stupidity of the ungrateful colonies" which had left the British Empire
                    in 1776. As late as the Fourth of July, 1875, this hard feeling was not yet entirely dead. Several
                    Englishmen, including Henry Richard, a member of Parliament, participated in that year's
                    ceremony in 
                        London
                     which was attended by some two hundred Americans, among them Ulysses S. Grant, Jr., the
                    President's son. The 
                        London
                     Standard blasted the gathering, declaring that "none but Americans would
                    venture upon such a display of bad taste and discourtesy as was shown in yesterday's
                    celebration, and none but the English would tolerate it." Especially did the paper lambast
                    those Britons who had joined in the noisy merrymaking, for "it is hardly decent for any
                    loyal Englishman to participate in the celebration of English disasters. The American insurrection
                    was about the most unprovoked rebellion in history." Indeed, the Standard's irate editor even suggested that among Americans themselves there
                    were but "few not actually participating in the general system of public plunder in the
                    country who would not joyfully exchange their institutions for the order, honesty and loyalty of
                    this Empire, from which, a century ago, they made their insane revolt."21
            
            
               
                  20
                        Ibid. For an account of an earlier observance of the holiday in 
                            Geneva
                        , see Celebration of the Ninetieth Anniversary of American Independence
                            in 
                                Geneva
                             (Suisse) July 4th, 1866 (
                            Geneva
                        , 1866).
               
                  21
                        
                            New York
                         World, July 7, 1875, quoting the 
                            London
                        
                        Standard, July 6, 1875.
            
            
            If Fourth of July celebrations abroad were sometimes so boisterous as to provoke foreigners,
                    Americans themselves could become incensed at the failure of foreigners to show proper respect for
                    the birthday of their Republic. Yankees in Honolulu, 
                        Hawaii
                    , were so irritated at the holiday conduct of local officials in 1847 that they accused
                    the Hawaiians of blatant "anti-American prejudice." It seems that on the Fourth of
                    July the American commissioner lowered the small 
                        United States
                     flag which ordinarily flew over his residence, replacing it with "a large
                    magnificent one" more suitable for the happy occasion. Immediately afterwards the large
                    royal standard at the palace was lowered, and "the very smallest and meanest"
                    Hawaiian banner was raised in its stead. Moreover, local officials failed to fire any Fourth of July
                    salutes from the fort guns. When they recalled the respect accorded the British on their holidays,
                    the Americans were even more provoked. On the anniversary of Queen Victoria's birth,
                    there had been on the local flagpoles "a display of the largest and richest Hawaiian flags
                    and royal standards that are ever seen to float." On the anniversary of her coronation,
                    there had been "joyful demonstrations," including the firing of salutes in respect
                    to the British ensign by order of the native government. To the patriotic Americans this was proof
                    aplenty that 
                        Hawaii
                     was suffering from a great "want of national courtesy."22
            
            Yankees also "kept the day" aboard ship. Henry Bradshaw Fearon, an Englishman,
                    noted that the anniversary was observed in 1817 on board the 
                        Washington
                     with "its usual sanctity—by good eating and drinking" and
                    by the singing of several songs of 1776 vintage. The Briton reported that John Quincy Adams and his
                    family, returning home from 
                        London
                    , joined in the merrymaking. Even Fearon was not immune to the Fourth of July fever.
                    "I felt warm in the cause," he candidly confessed, "viewing that
                    declaration as the common property of every friend of freedom."23
                    According to another sojourning Briton, James Flint, Brother Jonathan's birthday was not
                    forgotten by the passengers on 
                  
                     22 Honolulu Sandwich Islands News, July 7, 14, 1847.
                  
                     23 Henry Bradshaw Fearon, Sketches of America: A
                                Narrative of a Journey of Five Thousand Miles Through the Eastern and Western States of
                                America … (
                                London
                            , 1818), 3.
               
                     the Glenthorn in 1818. The captain and seamen
                    "were disposed to be joyful in commemoration of this great event," and they
                    indulged their patriotic inclinations by displaying "the striped flag," by firing
                    pistols, and by cheering for liberty to the top of their voices. The passengers, most of whom were
                    immigrants bound for the young nation in the West, were no less enthusiastic and "joined in
                    the strongest expressions of their devotedness to the democratic form of government … and
                    their avowed satisfaction at the near prospect of becoming people of the Republic."24
            
            A most elaborate Fourth of July celebration was organized by Yankees aboard the mail steamer USS Hermann in 1853. When the bells began ringing and the guns began firing at
                    midnight on July 3, many of the startled passengers believed that the boiler had burst or that the
                    ship had sprung a leak. Chuckling at the consternation of their sleepy fellows, a few of
                    "the initiated" assembled in the smoking room "and drank the health of
                    the seventy-seven years old child in a bumper of champagne." At sunrise the cannon were
                    fired again, and at noon there was a thirteen-gun salute. Then followed a markedly cosmopolitan
                    observance of "the birthday of Freedom." "There were representatives of
                    almost every nation; but all alike, Americans and foreigners, joined heart and hand in doing honor
                    to the occasion." To be sure, the ceremony began with the singing of Hail 
                            Columbia
                        
               , the reading of the Declaration of Independence, and the delivery of an
                    oration in English. It soon took an international turn, however: a German song was followed by an
                    oration in German given by a Russian. After another German song, there was "a most
                    appropriate and eloquent address in French." Given the occasion, the solemnities had to end
                    on an American note, and so Americans, Germans, Russians, and Frenchmen blended their not so
                    melodious voices and tried valiantly to sing The Star-Spangled Banner. That
                    evening a piano was hoisted on deck, a violinist was summoned, and the ball began. After
                    intermissions for "a magnificent display of fireworks" and for "a cold
                    collation in the saloon," the crew joined in; and the revelers danced 
                  
                     24 James Flint, Letters from America, Containing
                                Observations On the Climate and Agriculture of the Western States, the Manners of the
                                People, the Prospects of Emigrants, &c. &c. (Edinburgh, 1822),
                        3.
               
                     away the glorious night to the tune of piano and violin music,
                    cannon fire, and "continuous salvos from champagne corks."25
                    It was a distinctively American sound for the most distinctively American of days.
            Thus, while Americans at home were huzzahing for their liberties on the day "set apart, by
                    the unanimous sentiment of the people, as the political sabbath of America,"26 their countrymen abroad were not forgetting the glorious Fourth of July. To
                    nineteenth-century Americans a flamboyant patriotism was a positive virtue, and the birthday of the
                    nation was an occasion calling for manifestation of this ardor. Whether on land or on sea, Yankees
                    met to revel in the sheer joy of being citizens of "the world's only
                    Republic," and could well shout with George Bancroft, "Thank God we are
                        Arnericans.27
            
            
               
                  25
                        Commemoration on Board US. Mail Steamer Hermann, Lieut. Edward Higgins, U.S.N.,
                            Commander, on Her Passage from 
                                Bremen
                             to 
                                New York
                            , July Fourth, 1853. Published by Subscription of the Passengers (
                            New York
                        , 1853), 4-5.
               
                  26
                        
                            Lexington
                        
                        
                     
                                Kentucky
                             Gazette, July 10, 1815; 
                     Lexington, Kentucky
                  , Reporter, July 19, 1815.
               
                  27 Long, Literary Pioneers, 126.
            
         
         
         
            The Papers of John Marshall
            A scholarly edition of the papers of Chief Justice John Marshall (1755-1835) is being prepared under
                    the sponsorship of the College of William and Mary and the Institute of Early American History and
                    Culture. While Marshall's letters, political writings, diplomatic corespondence, and
                    legal papers have long been of interest to American scholars, it was not until grants from the
                    National Historical Publications Commission and the Commonwealth of 
                        Virginia
                     were made to the sponsors in the summer of 1966 that this effort could begin in
                    earnest.
            As Chief Justice of the 
                        United States
                     John Marshall made a permanent contribution to the development of American
                    institutions. It is sometimes forgotten, however, that his earlier career placed him in the
                    mainstream of our history—as an officer in the major campaigns of the Revolutionary War,
                    member of the 
                        Virginia
                     ratifying convention and of the General Assembly, member of Congress, diplomat, and
                    Secretary of State. The major portion of the published papers will consist of legal notes, briefs,
                    and judicial opinions—possibly five of eight or nine volumes now projected; but careful
                    attention to materials bearing upon his personal and political life is demanded in an authoritative
                    edition.
            Because many of John Marshall's papers have been destroyed or scattered it is imperative
                    that meticulous care be exercised in attempting to recover all that remains of the manuscript and
                    printed record. Information concerning documents written by or addressed to John Marshall or other
                    records bearing directly upon his life will be gratefully received and permission to edit and
                    publish them acknowledged in the printed volumes. The publisher of the Papers of John Marshall will
                    be the University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 
                        Chapel Hill
                    .
            Stephen G. Kurtz, Editor The Papers of John Marshall Box 220
                    
                  Williamsburg, Virginia
                23186
         
         
         
            The 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company: A Cultural Institution in Pioneer Indiana
            Edited by J. Robert Constantine*
            
            This final installment of the minutes of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company covers the meetings from February 4, 1839, to February 5, 1883. Between
                    these dates the company passed through stages common to many mid-nineteenth century subscription
                    libraries—a gradual decline in membership, smaller attendance at and less regular company
                    meetings, fewer book purchases, and extended periods of suspended activity, followed by the formal
                    absorption of the library's collection by a larger institution, in this case by 
                        Vincennes
                     University.
            The company's vitality continued strong into the 1840's, but within a decade it
                    began a rapid decline. The annual shareholders' meetings were held but poorly attended;
                    and the number of board meetings declined to the point that none were held between 1849 and 1852.
                    The last sizable purchase of books, forty volumes, was recorded in February, 1847.
            By the eve of the Civil War the circumstances which had inspired the founding of the library company
                    and sustained its growth were gone. Such factors as the scarcity of books and funds for their
                    purchase, remoteness from publishing centers, transportation costs, and the like were no longer
                    operative, or were operating with much less impact on the people of 
                        Vincennes
                    . The demise of the company was also attributable, at least in part, to the interests
                    and energies attracted (and services rendered) by the Maclure Library, the Library and Lecture
                    Association, the Workingmen's Institute, and the Moral and Social Reading Room, all of
                    which were functioning within half a dozen years after the war. In short, as a cultural institution
                    in pioneer Indiana the 
                        Vincennes
                     Library Company had been a significant and useful agency; but when the conditions which
                    led to its creation disappeared, so did the need for the organization. But not before, as Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     said of his Junto Club, the company had "manifested its utility."
            
               
                  * J. Robert Constantine is professor of history at Indiana
                        State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        . The text of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company minutes which follows is printed from a photocopy of the original
                        minute book. Minutes for the periods 1806-1817, 1817-1823, and 1824-1838 appeared in J. Robert
                        Constantine (ed.), "The 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company: A Cultural Institution in Pioneer Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, LXI (December, 1966), 305-89; ibid.,
                        LXII (June, 1966), 121-64; and ibid., LXII (December, 1966), 305-44. For a
                        summary account of the company from its establishment to its dissolution in 1883 see
                        Constantine, Indiana Magazine of History, LXI, 305-20.
            
            
            
                    [February 4, 1839]1
               
                    At a meeting of the Stock Holders, on Monday the 4th day of Feby. 1839 at the office of Judah
                        & Gibson of The 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company—Present: S. Hill Esq., Prest.; Geo. R. Gibson Secy. pro.
                        tem.; J. B. Martin, Wm. Burtch, Saml. Emerson, A. T. Ellis, H. D. Wheeler, Josph Soma, John
                        Moore, John D. Hay, John Law, R. Y. Caddington, N. Smith, S. L. Crosby.
                    The Records of Society since the last annual meeting were read—and on motion of Capt.
                        J. B. Martin the meeting proceeded to the Election of officers for the ensuing year and after
                        counting the votes, the Chairman declared the result as follows— (to wit): Samuel
                        Hill, President; S. L. Crosby, Librarian; A. T. Ellis, Josph Somes, Joh Law, J. B. Martin, Geo.
                        R. Gibson, Directors.
                    Mr. Law offered the following Resolution "Resolved— That the portrait of Col.
                        Francis Vigo painted by Mr. Augustus Von Smith be received—That he be paid the sum of
                        $20.00 therefor, and receive a certificate of membership freed from the annual Tax of
                        $2.00 and that said portrait be 
                     
                        1 In editing these minutes every effort has been made to reproduce
                                faithfully the spelling and capitalization of the handwritten document. The spacing of
                                the original minutes has been somewhat modified and standardized. For example, space
                                limitations have prompted the listing of members present at a meeting, results of
                                elections, and books recommended for purchase in series instead of the columns which
                                usually appear in the minutes. Paragraphs have been indented consistently even though in
                                the document many were not indented. Frequently items of business—especially
                                motions and resolutions—were recorded on separate successively indented
                                lines; these have been reproduced in standard paragraph form. The openings and closings
                                of minutes and locations of headings also have been standardized. Punctuation has been
                                reproduced as it appeared with the following exceptions: periods have been added where
                                necessary at the ends of paragraphs, closings of minutes, and after abbreviations and
                                initials; commas and semicolons have been added when columns of names are reproduced in
                                series; a colon has been added after the word "present" when it
                                precedes a list of members attending a meeting, after the word "viz."
                                when it introduces a series, and occasionally where it clarifies the intent of the
                                secretary; decimal points have been inserted where they were missing in prices; and
                                hyphens have been used consistently between inclusive numbers in lists of numbered
                                books. Flourishes have been omitted or translated as periods; underlining of signatures,
                                dates, and the like has been considered a flourish except where it clearly indicates
                                italics. Raised letters have been brought down to the line. Unintentional repetitions of
                                words or phrases have been omitted, as have marks in the margins and words, phrases, or
                                subtotals used in making transitions from one page to the next in the original minutes.
                                No attempt has been made to give biographical data on individuals whose names appear in
                                these minutes.
                  
                         handsomely framed at the expense of the Company and hung up
                        in the Library Room."
                    which Resolution on motion of Mr. Wheeler was amended, so as to allow Mr. Von Smith
                        $25.00. for said painting and a Certificate for one share of stock to be issued to
                        him.
                    On motion of Mr. Ellis—Resolved—That Whereas doubts have been expressed in
                        relation to the interpretation of the 2d Section of the Rules Resolved—That no annual
                        contribution be assessed excepting on the 1st Monday of February in each year upon those owning
                        shares at that time.
                    On motion the meeting then adjourned.
                    Geo. R. Gibson Secy.
                    Samuel Hill Prest.
                
            
                    Feb. 9. 1839.
                    A [t] a meeting of the Directors of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company—Present: S. Hill Prest.; A. T. Ellis, J. Somes, J. Law,
                        J. B. Martin, G. R. Gibson, Directors.
                    J. B. Martin was elected Treasurer.
                    
                        Standing Committees:
                    
                    Committee on Finance: Messrs. Martin—Ellis—Somes.
                    Committee on Books: Messrs. Law—Gibson—Ellis.
                    Committee on Library & Furniture: Messrs. Gibson—
                    Martin—Somes.
                    Nos. Resolved that "The Rocky Mountains" 2 Vols.
                    1612 be received of J. Law and he be credited One & a half
                    1613 dollars for both.
                    Nos. Also that the "History of 
                            North Carolina
                        "
                    1614 2 Vols. be received of G. R. Gibson and he be
                    1615 credited One & a half dollars for both.
                    Ordered that the Treasurer pay to Mr. A. Von Smith Twenty five Dollars, for services rendered to
                        the Library Company—said sum to be paid out of moneys not otherwise appropriated.
                    S. L. Crosby Secretary
                    Samuel Hill.
                
            
                    [September 7, 1839]
                    At a meeting called by the President of the Directors of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company at the Office of S. Hill Esq. Sept. 7th 1839. Present: S. Hill
                        Prest.; Messrs. Law, Gibson, Ellis, Martin & Somes Directors. Mr. Ellis Secretary pro tem.
               
                    
                    On motion—Resolved that the Treasurer make out all the accounts due on Shares that are
                        not forfeited, and place them in the hands of an officer for collection forthwith.
                    Resolved that the Librarian furnish the Treasurer forth- with with a list of all the Stockholders
                        designating those which are forfeited and those which are not in separate columns.
                    S. L. Crosby Secretary
                    Samuel Hill Prest.
                
            
                    [October 28, 1839]
                    At a meeting of the Directors of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company—called by the President—at the Office of S.
                        Hill Esq.—Oct. 28, 1839—Present: S. Hill Esq. Prest. Messrs. Law, Martin,
                        Somes and Ellis, Directors.
                    
                  1. Resolved—that the Catholic College be authorised to take the cases
                            containing the Books in the 
                                Vincennes
                             University at such valuation of the same as may be agreed on.
                  2. Resolved—that a Committee of three with the Librarian be directed to take
                            immediate measures for the removal of the Books of the Library to such place as they may
                            designate— and be authorized to employ such persons as may be necessary to aid
                            them:—and also to procure the necessary cases for the Books.—And that
                            this Committee dispose of the cases mentioned in the first resolution.
               
                    The following gentlemen were appointed a Committee pursuant to the foregoing resolutions viz.:
                        Messrs. ‘Martin, Somes, Gibson, & Crosby.
                    The Meeting was then adjourned.
                    S. L. Crosby, Secretary.
                    Samuel Hill Prst.
                
            
                    Annual Meeting 1840. Feb. 3.
                    At a meeting of the stockholders of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company held at the Library room, Monday Feb. 3. 1840—Present:
                        S. Hill Esq. Prest.; E. Stout, J. Moore, A. T. Ellis, S. Emison, W. Burtch, J. Somes, H. D.
                        Wheeler, J. Law, J. B. Martin, G. R. Gibson, R. Y. Caddington, W. J. Heberd, D. Stahl, S. L.
                        Crosby.
                    Dr. Somes for the Committee appointed to remove the Books of the Library &c. (See record
                        of Oct. 28. 1839.) reported that, a room was procured of Mr. Crosby at a rent
                             of twelve dollars per annum—which was fitted
                        with shelving at the cost of $28.02[?]: charges for moving books and
                        furniture included.
                    Also that no sale or removal of the cases formerly prepared by the Academy Trustees for the
                        Library—could be effected—The committee ask to be discharged from further
                        attention to the matter.— The Report was adopted.
                    On motion, proceeded to elect officers for the year ensuing; as follows: s. Hill Esq., President;
                        Messers. Law, Ellis, Somes, Gibson, Stahl, Directors; J. B. Martin, Treasurer; S. L. Crosby,
                        Librarian.
                    The Treasurer presented his account for the past year.
                    Resolved that the following shares are hereby declared forfeited: Jacob Kuykendall's,
                        John Bruner's, Chas. Smith's, N. Ewing's, R. P.
                        Price's, Chn. Graeter's, E. McNamee's, J. D.
                        Woolverton's.
                    Resolved that the arrearages on the following shares be collected: I.
                        Blackford's—S. Emison's—S. Tomlinson's.
                    Resolved that Certificates of Stock be issued to the following individuals being share holders
                        whose shares are not forfeited: viz.:
                    Names of Stockholders Feb. 3. 1840
                    Samuel Emison—Samuel Hill—William Burtch—J. K.
                        Dubois—Joseph Somes—H. D. Wheeler—Samuel Tomlinson's
                        Estate—J. B. Martin—J. D. Hay—W. J. Heberd—R. Y.
                        Caddington—J. P. Drake—E. M. Jones—S. L. Crosby—John
                        Atkinson—G. R. Gibson—Daniel Stahl—E. Stout—Isaac 
                            Blackford
                        —John Moore—John Law—N. Smith—S.
                        Judah—Daniel Smith—John Baddlet's Estate—A. T.
                        Ellis.
                    Resolved that all fines for the detention of books during the past year, be remitted.
                    Samuel Hill President.
                
            
                    Meeting of Directors. March 7. 1840.
                    At a regular, stated meeting of the Directors of the Vincenes Library Company—Present:
                        S. Hill esq., Prest.; Messrs. Ellis, Somes, Gibson.
                    
                    Standing Committees
                    On Finance, Messrs. Ellis, Somes, Gibson.
                    On Books Law, Somes, Stahl.
                    On Library Furniture and Room Gibson, Stahl, Ellis.
                    Ordered, that A. T. Ellis be credited the amount of his account $3.68. and that S. L.
                        Crosby be credited $4. for services as librarian.
                    S. L. Crosby Librarian.
                
            
                    Meeting of Directors. Nov. 14, 1840.
                    At a meeting of Directors of the Vinc. Library Co. Present: S. Hill Esqr., Prest.; Messrs. Somes,
                        Stahl, Gibson & Ellis.
                    Mr. Crosby presented his account for rent of room for the Library—during 12 months
                        previous to Nov. 1. 1840. at $1. per month—$12.00; which was
                        allowed (according to order at the annual meeting Feb. 3—1840—) and the
                        Treasurer directed to pay the same out of the first unappropriated moneys in his hands.
                    Resolved that the Librarian make enquiry respecting the binding of books.
                    S. L. Crosby Librarian
                    Samuel Hill President.
                
            
                    Annual Meeting Feb. 1. 1841.
                    At the annual meeting of the Shareholders in the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company—held Monday, Feb. 1. 1841.—Present: Messrs.
                        Stout, Ellis, Caddington, Hill, Moore, Somes, Wheeler, Law, Martin, Crosby.
                    E. Stout esq. was appointed Chairman; J. Law esq. Secretary.
                    The share holders then proceeded to ballot for a President, five Directors, a Treasurer and a
                        Librarian.
                    The following persons were elected: S. Hill Esq., President; J. Law, J. Somes, A. T. Ellis, G. R.
                        Gibson, D. Stahl, Directors; J. B. Martin, Treasurer; S. L. Crosby, Librarian.
                    The Treasurer's Report was adopted.
                    S. L. Crosby Librian.
                
            
                    [April 12, 1841]
                    At a meeting of the Directors of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company, April 12. 1841. Present: S. Hill Esq. President, and Messrs.
                        Somes—Gibson—Ellis.
                    
                    Resolved, that this Society learn with sincere regret the decease of Wm. H. Harrison, late
                        President of the 
                            United States
                        , and one of the founders of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library.
                    Resolved, that in token of respect for the memory of the deceased, the members of the Library
                        Company be requested to wear the usual badge of mourning for thirty days.
                    Resolved, that these resolutions be published in the Public Papers of this place.
                    S. L. Crosby, Librarian
                    Samuel Hill President.
                
            
                    [October 30, 1841]
                    At a meeting of the Directors of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company, at the office of S. Hill Esq. Oct. 30, 1841. Present: S. Hill Esq.
                        Prest. and Messrs. Somes—Ellis—& Gibson.
                    Dr. D. Stahl's resignation of his office was accepted— as he had removed
                        from the place.
                    Wm. Burtch was appointed Director, in place of D. Stahl, resigned.
                    Mr. Crosby presented his account for rent of the room for keeping the Books—for one
                        year from Nov. 1. 1840 Twelve dollars, which was ordered to be paid by the Treasurer.
                    Mr. Crosby having requested the remova[l] of the Library from his room—Messers. Somes,
                        Gibson and the Librarian were appointed a Committee to effect the same.
                    S. L. Crosby Secy.
                    Samuel Hill President.
                
            
                    Annual meeting Feb. 7. 1842.
                    At the Library room, in the Town Hall, Present: Messrs. S. Hill, E. Stout, J. Moore, S. Judah, J.
                        Somes, R. Y. Caddington, B. M. Thomas, W. Burtch, A. T. Ellis, J. B. Martin, S. L. Crosby, H. D.
                        Wheeler (near the close); E. Stout Esq., Chairman; S. L. Crosby, Secretary.
                    On motion resolved that G. D. Hay be considered a Shareholder in place of his father now
                        deceased—and that a certificate of Stock be ussued to him.
                    On motion proceeded to elect the officers for the year ensuing as follows:
                        President—S. Hill Esq.; Directors, Messrs. J. Law, J. Somes, A. T. Ellis, W. Burtch,
                        B. M. Thomas; Treasurer, J. B. Martin; Librarian, S. L. Crosby.
                    On motion resolved that the annual contributions of the Treasurer and Librarian be remitted till
                        otherwise ordered.
                    
                    On motion resolved, that the Treasurer upon the expiration of two months from this date and in
                        each and every year hereafter shall cause suit to be instituted against every person in arrears
                        on account of annual contributions, fines or otherwise.—Also the above be published
                        in both News papers of the place.
                    S. L. Crosby Secretary
                    Samuel Hill Prest.
                
            
                    [February 7, 1842]
                    At a meeting of the Directors of the Vinc. Lib'y. Company Feb. 7.
                        1842—Present: S. Hill Esq., Prest.; Messrs. Somes, Ellis, Burtch and Thomas.
                    The following Committees were appointed:
                    On Finance Messrs. Ellis, Somes, Burtch.
                    On Books Messrs. Law, Ellis, Thomas.
                    On Lib'y. Furniture Messrs. Burtch, Somes, Ellis. Ordered
                    That John Moore be credited the amount of his account for removal of the Library Nov. 20,
                        1841—$6.75.
                    That S. L. Crosby be paid the amount of his account for expenses of removal of the Library Nov.
                        1841—being $5.651 1/2. That E. Stout be credited for the account by him
                        presented for printing June 12, 1830—deducting the charges for adv'g.
                        annual meetings—$46.00
                    S. L. Crosby Sec'y.
                    Samuel Hill Prest.
                
            
                    (Omitted in its proper place)
                    Resolved, on motion, at the annual meeting of the Share-holders, that the Librarian present as a
                        donation from the Vinc. Libr'y Company to the Youth's Library several (3
                        or 5 perhaps) numbers of the Family Library duplicates on our shelves but not in their
                        collection.
                    S. L. Crosby Sec'y.
                    Samuel Hill Prest.
                
            
                    [Undated]
                    At a meeting of the Directors of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company held Present:
                    Resolved that the folling Books be received of B. M. Thomas Esq. and that he be credited for them
                        as here stated:
                    
                    Nicolas Nickleby
                    Oliver Twist
                    Barnaby Rudge
                    Resolved that the Treasurer pay over to B. M. Thomas Esq. to be expended by him in purchasing
                        Books for the Library.
                
            
                    
                  
                            Vincennes
                         13 December 1842
                    Meeting of the Directors Present: Saml. Hill, President; A. T. Ellis, Joseph Somes, B. M. Thomas,
                        Directors.
                    Ordered that the Books named in the invoice submitted by B. M. Thomas be received and numbered by
                        the Librarian to wit: 
                     Family Library
                     
                        No. 1064
                        Vol. 84
                        Turners Sacred History Vol. 3rd
                     
                     
                        
                        85
                        Animal Mechanism
                     
                     
                        
                        86-7-8-9-91
                        Jytlers [?I U. History
                     
                     
                        
                        92-3
                        Franklins Life & Works
                     
                     
                        
                        94-5
                        Pursuit of Knowledge
                     
                     
                        
                        96-7
                        Paleys Theology
                     
                     
                        
                        98
                        Birds Natural History etc.
                     
                     
                        
                        99
                        Dick Sideral Heavens
                     
                     
                        
                        100
                        Uphams Mental [?] Action
                     
                     
                        
                        101-2
                        Murrays British America
                     
                     
                        
                        103
                        History fine arts
                     
                     
                        
                        104
                        History Quadrupeds
                     
                     
                        
                        105
                        Parks Travels
                     
                     
                        
                        106
                        Life Before the Mast
                     
                     
                        
                        107-8
                        Parrys Voyage
                     
                     
                        
                        109-10
                        Johnson's Life & Works
                     
                     
                        
                        111
                        Bryants American Poets
                     
                     
                        
                        112-13
                        Hallecks British Poets
                     
                     
                        
                        114-15-16-17-18
                        Kitelys History 
                                        England
                                    
                        
                     
                     
                        
                        119-20
                        Hales U. S.
                     
                     
                        
                        121-2
                        Irwins Goldsmith
                     
                     
                        
                        123-4
                        Lives of Eminent Men
                     
                     
                        
                        125
                        Life De Wit Clinton
                     
                     
                        
                        126-7
                        Life Com. Perry
                     
                     
                        
                        128
                        Bruces Travels
                     
                     
                        
                        129
                        Lives of Jay & 
                                        Hamilton
                                    
                        
                     
                     
                        
                        130
                        Brewsters Martyrs Science
                     
                     
                        
                        131
                        Iceland 
                                        Greenland
                                     &c.
                     
                     
                        
                        132
                        Japanese Manners & Customs
                     
                     
                        
                        133
                        Dwights 
                                        Connecticut
                                    
                        
                     
                     
                        
                        134-5
                        Ruins of Ancient Cities
                     
                     
                     
                        136-7 
                                        Denmark
                                    
                        
                        Sweden & Norway
                     
                     
                        
                        138
                        Democracy
                     
                     
                        
                        139
                        History of 
                                        Michigan
                                    
                        
                     
                     
                        
                        140
                        Lives of Ancient Philosophers
                     
                     
                        
                        141-2
                        Napoleons Russian Expedition
                     
                     
                        
                        143-4
                        History Philosophy
                     
                     
                        
                        145
                        Beauties of Nature
                     
                     
                        
                        146
                        Liebers Labor & Property
                     
                     
                        
                        147
                        Natural History of Selborne
                     
                     
                        
                        148
                        Rangles Polar Sea
                     
                     
                        
                        149-50
                        Trades & Professions
                     
                     
                        
                        151-2-3
                        History 
                                        Italy
                                    
                        
                     
                     
                        
                        154-5
                        Lewis & Clark 27.00
                     
                  
                        
                     
                        1621-4
                        Thiers French Revolution
                        4 V.
                        3.00
                     
                     
                        1625-7
                        Bancrofts U. States
                        3 V.
                        5.25
                     
                     
                        1628-9
                        Coopers Naval History
                        2 V.
                        3.25
                     
                     
                        1630-1
                        Stephens Central America
                        2 V.
                        4.37
                     
                     
                        1632
                        Lockhart's Scott
                        
                        1.06
                     
                     
                        1651
                        Eminent Mechanics
                        
                        .47
                     
                     
                        1633-6
                        Rollins Ancient Histy.
                        4 V.
                        1.70
                     
                     
                        1637
                        Presidents Messages
                        
                        1.25
                     
                     
                        1638
                        Combe's Phrenology
                        
                        1.00
                     
                     
                        1639
                        Babijee [?]
                        
                        .25
                     
                     
                        1640
                        Sketches Boz
                        
                        .85
                     
                     
                        1641
                        Harry Lorreguer [?]
                        
                        .95
                     
                     
                        1642
                        Old Curisoty Shop
                        
                        .50
                     
                     
                        1643-50
                        Penny Magasine A. D. 1832-9
                        8 V.
                        4.95
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        
                        55.55
                     
                   and that B. M. Thomas Esqr. be credited for the same Fifty five Dollars Fifty Five
                        Cents
                    Samuel Hill Prest.
                
            
                    
                  
                            Vincennes
                         Feb. 6th 1843
                    At a meeting of the Shareholders of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library, held in the Library room in the Town Hall, Jno. Law was appointed
                        chairman, & R. Y. Caddington Secy. After organizing, the election of President,
                        Directors, Librarian and Treasurer was entered into; when the following persons were duly
                        declared elected: President, Saml. Hill, Esqr.; Directors, A. T. Ellis, Jno. Law, Jos. Somes,
                        & Jno. Moore, & Wm. Burtch. Librarian & Secy. Geo. D. Hay [and]
                        Treasurer Jno. B. Martin.
                    On motion the following resolution was adopted. Resolved, That the present year One dollar shall
                        be remitted on each annual contribution.
                    
                    The President then appointed the following Standing committees: 
                     
                        Committee on Finance
                        Ellis, Somes & Moore.
                     
                     
                        Do. " Books
                        Law, Moore, Ellis.
                     
                     
                        " " Library Room
                        Burtch Ellis, Somes.
                     
                  
                    
                    Mr. Y. R. Caddington produced an a/c against the Library for printing certificates &c.
                        amtg. to Four dollars, which was allowed.
                    On motion, the Meeting Adjourned.
                    Geo. D. Hay, Librarian
                    Saml. Hill Prest.
                
            
                    Library Room March 11th 1843.
                    Dr. H. Decker this day produced a written transfer of a share from Mr. Danl. Smith, of which the
                        following is a copy:
                    I do hereby transfer and assign
                    to H. Decker, my Share in the
                    
                  
                            Vincennes
                         Library.
                    Vins. Mar. 10th 1843. Daniel Smith
                    The Doctor produced also a rect. from Capt. J. B. Martin, for the payt. of the dues on above
                        Share, upon which I, according to the Constitution, transfered the Share. The constitution
                        requires that a regular transfer book be kept, but upon enquiry I find it has been lost.
                    Geo. D. Hay, Librarian.
                
            
                    October 9th. 1843
                    At a meeting of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company prenent: Saml. Hill, Prest.; John Moore, Wm. Burtch, Jos. Somes,
                        Directors.
                    On motion Willm. W. Carr was chosen Librarian to act untill the regular meeting in February.
                    On motion William Burtch was authorized to procure a stove and pipe and have the same put up in
                        the Library Room.
                    Jos. Sommes Secy. pro tem
                    Samuel Hill Prest.
                
            
                    Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of the
                    Library Company held February 5th 1844’
                    At the annual meeting of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company held on the 5th of February 1844 there were present: John 
                     
                        2 See page 139 for possible addendum to these minutes.
                  
                         Moore, Wm. Burtch, Wm. Heberd, R. Y. Caddington, B. M.
                        Thomas, Hiram Decker, Geo. D. Hay, E. M. Jones, N. Smith.
                    On Motion the Company went into the election of officers for the ensuing year which resulted as
                        follows: President, William Burtch; Directors, John Moore, B. M. Thomas, R. Y. Caddington,
                        Samuel Judah, A. T. Ellis; Librarian, Will. W. Carr; Treasurer, John B. Martin.
                    On motion it was further Resolved that a share in the Library be donated to Will. W. Carr.
                    Resolved also that the acct. of Wm. Burtch for a stove and Pipe for the use of Library Room be
                        allowed the amount of which is $13.50.
                    Also that the acct. of W. Carr be allowed $1.12 1/2.
                    Also that for the ensuing year $1.00 be remitted on the annual installment.
                    Also that the Report of J. B. Martin the Treasurer for the past year be
                        received—shewing a Bal. in his hands of $22.61.
                    On motion adjourned.
                    Will. W. Carr Librarian.
                
            
                    [February 5, 1844]
                    At a meeting of the Directors held the same evening present—Wm. Burtch
                        President—John Moore-R. Y. Caddington—B. M. Thomas Directors the following
                        proceedings were had.
                    Proper Committees were appointed as follows consisting of:
                    
                  
                     Messrs.
                     Moore, Caddington, Ellis
                     On Finance
                  
                  
                     
                     Thomas, Judah, Moore
                     On Books
                  
                  
                     
                     Caddington, Thomas, Ellis
                     On Room & furniture
                  
               
                    Resolved That the Treasurer be instructed to use the proper means immediately to collect the
                        arrearages due from share-holders to the Library.
                    That the meeting adjourn.
                    Will. W. Carr Librarian.
                
            
                    Annual meeting of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library
                    Company held on the 3d Feby. 1845
                    At the annual meeting of the Company held this day there were present: Wm. Burtch, John Moore, R.
                        Y. Cadding-  ton, A. T. Ellis, W. W. Carr, Wm. J. Heberd, N.
                        Smith, E. Stout, John B. Martin, Geo. D. Hay.
                    The Treasurer John B. Martin then presented a report of the state of the finances of the Company
                        shewing the receipts and expenditures by him made as Treasurer and exhibiting a balance in his
                        hands of thirty nine dollars & 11 cts. and it was ordered that his report be recd. and
                        accepted.
                    On motion it was Resolved That the Treasurer be requested to proceed immediately to collect the
                        arrears due on all shares which are not forfeited.
                    On motion it was Resolved That the shares of Daniel Stahl, George R. Gibson and John Atkincon be
                        and they are hereby forfeited.—and also the share of Samuel L. Crosby be forfeited.
                    On motion it was Resolved That the sum of One dollar be remitted on the annual contribution for
                        the ensuing year.
                    Resolved That Citizens wishing to avail themselves of the benefit of the use of Books belonging
                        to this Library may obtain the same by applying to the Librarian & paying the sum of two
                        dollars per year in advance subject however to the same regulations as shareholders.
                    The Shareholders then on motion went into an election of officers for the ensuing year which
                        resulted as follows—and the following gent. declared duly elected: President, John
                        Moore; Directors, Willm. Burtch, Abnr. T. Ellis, Geo. D. Hay, Elihu Stout,
                    Rd. Y. Caddington; Treasurer, John B. Martin; Librarian & Secy., Will. W. Carr.
                    On motion Resolved that the shareholders do now adjourn.
                    Will. W. Carr Secy.
                
            
                    [February 3, 18451
                    At a meeting of the Directors held on the eveg. of February 3d. 1845 present: John Moore,
                        President; Wm. Burtch, A. T. Ellis, Geo. D. Hay, E. Stout, & R. Y. Caddington, Directors
                        the following proceedings were had.
                    The ordinary proper committees were appointed composed as follows:
                    On Finance Wm. Burtch, A. T. Ellis, G. D. Hay
                    On Books G. D. Hay, E. Stout, A. T. Ellis
                    On Library Room
                    and Furniture R. Y. Caddington, E. Stout, Wm. Burtch
                    
                    It was then Resolved That all available means in the hands of the Treasurer be drawn from the
                        Treasury by the chairman of the Committee on Books and as soon as practicable be expended for
                        the purchase of Books under the control of said committee.
                    On Motion the Directors then adjourned.
                    Will. W. Carr Secy.
                    Jno. Moore Pres.
                
            
                    [February 3, 1846]
                    Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library. Present: A. T. Ellis, J. B. Martin, R. Y. Caddington, N. Smith, Saml.
                        Judah, Joseph Somes—W. R. McCord, Jno. Moore, W. J. Heberd.
                    Jno. Moore was called to the chair.
                    H. Fauntleroy authorized to keep minutes.
                    The Treasr. J. B. Martin presented his account of funds— referred to Messrs. Somes
                        & Burtch, who reported $62.42 on hand, & $55. due from
                        shareholders.
                    On motion the share of James P. Drake was forfeited.
                    The meeting then proceeded to election of five directors, Treasurer, President &
                        Librarian, which resulted as follows: Jno. Moore was elected President; A. T. Ellis, W. J.
                        Heberd, W. R. McCord, Wm. Burtch, Joseph Somes, Directors; J. B. Martin, Treasurer; H.
                        Fauntleroy, Librarian.
                    On motion it was resolved that the sum of one dollar be remitted on annual contributions.
                    On motion it was resolved that no one be permitted to take books from the library, except by
                        compliance with the charter.
                    On motion it was resolved that be
                    authorized to arrange Note of Jno. Collins.
                    The meeting did then adjourn.
                    H. Fauntleroy, Secy.
                
            
                    [February 3, 1846]
                    Directors met Feby. 3d. 1846 Present: Jno. Moore, Prest.; W. J. Heberd, W. R. McCord.
                    On motion of Mr. McCord, it was resolved, that the Com. on books be requested to call on the
                        Treas. & draw any funds in his hands for the purpose of purchasing books.
                    
                    On motion of same it was also resolved, that Com. of Finance be required to ascertain who are in
                        arrearages to the library, & to direct the Treasr. [to collect] all dues.
                    On motion the directors then adjourned.
                    H. Fauntleroy Librarian.
                
            
                    [February 5(?) 1844]3
               
                    Annual meeting of the Share holders of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library February [5?] 1844 Present:
                    Ordered that the following books purchased by Wm. Burtch be received and numbered as follows: 
                     
                        1651-57
                        Bridgewater's Treatises
                     
                     
                        1658-9
                        Neiburgh's 
                                        Rome
                                    
                        
                     
                     
                        1660-2
                        Burnet's Hist. of the Reformation.
                     
                     
                        1663-6
                        Graham's Colonial Hist. of 
                                        United States
                                    
                        
                     
                     
                        1667-71
                        
                           
                                        United States
                                     Exploring Expedition
                     
                     
                        1672
                        Rank's History of the Popes
                     
                     
                        1673-4
                        Naval Hist. of the 
                                        United States
                                    .
                     
                     
                        1675
                        D'Aubigne's Reformation in 
                                        Germany
                                    
                        
                     
                     
                        1676
                        Browne's Hist. of the Hugenots.
                     
                     
                        1677
                        History of 
                                        Virginia
                                    
                        
                     
                     
                        1678
                        The Turkish and Spanish Empires.
                     
                     
                        1679
                        Reformation in 
                                        Germany
                                    .
                     
                     
                        1680-1
                        Walpole's Memoirs.
                     
                     
                        1682-3
                        Neal's Hist. of the Puritans.
                     
                     
                        1684-7
                        Allison's Hist. of Europe.
                     
                     
                        1688-90
                        Prescott's Conquest of Mexico.
                     
                  
                    
                
            
                    [February 1, 18473
                    Annual Meeting of the Stockholders held on 1st Monday Feby. 1847. Present: J. Moore—A.
                        T. Ellis—J. Somes—R. Y. Caddington—W. Burtch—N.
                        Smith—J. B. Martin—G. D. Hay.
                    Jno. Moore was called to the Chair—& Joseph Somes secy.
                    On Motion-an Election for Directors Librarian, Treasr. & President was held which
                        resulted as follows: For President, John Moore; For Directors, W. Burtch, J. Somes, G. D. Hay,
                        A. T. Ellis, W. R. McCord; For Treasurer, Jno. B. Martin; For Librarian, Jno. T. Hitt.
                    
                  
                     3 See note on page 136.
               
                    
                    The Treasurer made his report, which was referred to a Committee—Messrs. Burtch
                        & Ellis, who reported the same to be correct. Balance in Treasury
                        $9.52c—filed.
                    On Motion—One dollar was remitted on the Annual Contribution for the Current year.
                    On Motion—One dollar remitted on J. Ross's Account.
                    J. Somes Secy.
                    Jno. Moore Chairman.
                
            
                    [February 1, 1847]
                    At a Meeting of the Directors held at the Library Room Feby. 1. 1847. The President in the
                        Chair—Present: Burtch, Ellis, Hay, & Somes.
                    Committees appointed:
                    On Finance Burtch, Hay, & Ellis
                    On Books Somes, Hay, & Ellis
                    On Library Room McCord, Burtch, & Ellis
                    On Motion—The Directors adjourned.
                    Jno. T. Hitt Librararian.
                
            
                    [February 7, 1848]
                    Annual Meeting of the Stockholders of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Co. held on Monday Feb. 7. 1848. Present: Jno. Moore, Saml. Judah, Geo. D.
                        Hay, B. M. Thomas, Jos. Somes, R. Y. Caddington, N. Smith.
                    Judge Moore was called to the chair & George D. Hay appointed Sec'y.
                    On motion stockholders went into an election of Officers by Ballot. The following were elected:
                        President, John Moore; Directors, B. M. Thomas, Abner T. Ellis, Wm. R. McCord, Doctor Somes,
                        Geo. D. Hay; Librarian, John T. Hitt; Treasurer, Wm. Burtch.
                    Ordered that John T. Hitt Librarian be allowed 6$ for his services as Librarian. And
                        One dollar fifty six cts. for expenses, Wood, printing &c.—total
                        $6.56.
                    Ordered that one dollar be remitted on the contributions of each share for coming year.
                    John T. Hitt Librarian.
                
            
                    [April 29, 1848]
                    Directors met April. 29. 1848 Present: Prest. Jno. Moore; Geo. D. Hay. A. T. Ellis. &
                        Joseph Somes.
                    
                    The following committees were appointed:
                    On finance. J. Somes, Wm. McCord & Ellis.
                    On Books. Thomas, Somes & Hay.
                    On Library room. G. D. Hay. A. T. Ellis & B. M. Thomas.
                    Resolved—that Mr. Judah's proposal to place in the Library, the following
                        books, per $10.00 to wit: Financial Register 2 Vols.; African Colonization 1 [Vol.];
                        2 Reports on Banks 2 [Vols.]; 1 [Report] on State debt 1 vol.—be refered to committee
                        on Books, and if received—that His account be credited.
                    There being no farther business they adjourned.
                    John T. Hitt Librarian.
                
            
                    
                  
                            Vincennes
                        . Sept. 30 1848
                    Directors met prest.: Jno. Moore; G. D. Hay. Jos. Somes B. M. Thomas. & Wm. McCord.
                    Resolved on Motion of Dr. Somes. that the committee on books be instructed to inquire as to the
                        probable cost of printing a new Catalogue also that the committee on Books have further time to
                        report as to acceptation of books offered by Mr. Judah.
                    Jno. T. Hitt Librarian.
                
            
                    
                  
                            Vincennes
                         Oct. 5 [18]48
                    Committee reported that 25$ was the lowest price for which 200 Catalogues could be
                        printed whereupon the printing of said Catalogues was given to R. Y. Caddington.
                    Jno. T. Hitt Librarian.
                
            
                    [February 5, 1849]
                    Annual Meeting of the Share Holders—Feb. 5 1849 Present: John Moore, Wm. R. McCord,
                        Geo. D. Hay, Wm. J. Heberd, Joseph Somes, B. M. Thomas.
                    The Share Holders entered into an election which resulted in the choice of: Sam'l.
                        Judah—for President; Directors, Wm. R. Mc'Cord, George D. Hay, Wm. J.
                        Heberd, Joseph Somes, Abner T. Ellis; Treas'r, Wm. Burtch; Librarian, Jno. T. Hitt.
                    Moved & adopted—that the Sum of one Dollar be remitted on each Share.
                    
                    Moved that R. Y. Caddington be allowed nine dollars for printing Labels.
                    Moved and adopted that Jno. Hitt be allowed five dollars for acting as librarian from Feb. 1848.
                        untill Feb. 1849. & one Share in the Library for extra services.
                    Jno. T. Hitt Librarian
                    By W. M. Hitt.
                    The following have been received within the last year- purchased from Judah:
                    
                  
                     Congressional reports, on State Banks
                     2 copies.
                     1691-2
                  
                  
                     Financial Register
                     2 Vols.
                     1693-4
                  
                  
                     African Colonization
                     1 do.
                     1695
                  
                  
                     Reports on State debt
                     1 do.
                     1696
                  
                  
                     Presented by George G. Dunn, M. C.
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Congressional Globe
                     
                     1697
                  
                  
                     Appendix to Globe
                     
                     1698
                  
                  
                     From other sources—
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     Henry G. Bohns Catalogue, 1841
                     
                     1699
                  
                  
                     Index to documents from 1789 to 1824
                     
                     1700
                  
               
                
            
                    [February 4, 1850]
                    Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library—Feby. 4. 1850.
                    H. D. Wheeler was called to the chair, & B. M. Thomas appointed Secretary.
                    The Election of Officers was then entered into which resulted as follows: For President,
                        Sam'l. Judah; Treasurer, Wm. Burtch; Directors, Joseph Somes, Wm. McCord, W. J.
                        Heberd, G. D. Hay, B. M. Thomas; Librarian, W. M. Hitt.
                    On motion of Dr. Somes—Ordered that the sum of one Dollar be remitted on each share.
                    On motion of S. Judah—Ordered that the share belonging to Jno. T. Hitt. Decsd. be
                        transferred to Dr. W. W. Hitt.
                    On motion of R. Y. Caddington ordered that the Books proposed by Saml. Judah be accepted, and
                        that he be credited with ten Dollars therefor.
                    The Report of the Librarian was read, accepted, & ordered to be filed.
                    A Balance of six Dollars & fifty cents remained in his possession, five Dollars of which
                        was allowed him for his  services as Librarian during the
                        past year, and the remaining dollar & a half paid over to the Treasurer.
                    The Report of the Treasurer was read accepted, & ordered to be filed.
                    There appeared on hand up to Feb. 1850 the sum of $11.05.
                    Mr. Thomas offered the following resolution that the Library committee have authority at their
                        discretion to accept Books in payment of Balance due from Sharehold[ers] subject to the approval
                        of the directors Lost.
                    On motion the House adjourned.
                    B. M. Thomas Secty.
                    W. M. Hitt. Librn.
                
            
                    [February 3, 1851]
                    Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library, Feby. 3. 1851.
                    H. D. Wheeler was called to the Chair, & Joseph Somes appointed Secy.
                    On Motion—Dr. Somes moved that one dollar on a share for the present year be
                        remitted—carrd.
                    Election of Officers: President, S. Judah; Treasurer, W. Burtch; Directors, Joseph Somes, G. D.
                        Hay, B. M. Thomas, R. Y. Caddington, & N. Smith; Librarian, James A. Mason.
                    Ordered—That the Librarian be requested to open the Library on Saturdays from 3
                        o'clock to 5 o'clock P. M.
                    Ordered—That the Treasurer pay John Smith one dollar for services as Librarian.
                    On motion adjourned.
                    J. Somes, Secy.
                    H. D. Wheeler chairman.
                
            
                    Annual Meeting 1852.
                    The annual meeting of the Shareholders of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library, held on Monday the 1st of February, 1852, was organized by calling R. Y.
                        Caddington, Esq. to the chair.
                    On motion of Dr. Somes one dollar per share was remitted upon the annual contribution for last
                        year, and the Librarian directed to notify the Treasurer of the same. On motion of the same it
                        was resolved that the Treasurer be directed to proceed forthwith to the collection of the
                        contributions due.
                    
                    The account of Willis M. Hitt, Esq. for $4.00 for services as Librarian in 1851 was
                        allowed and ordered to be paid. Also, that of the Librarian for 1852 for $8.00.
                    On motion, It was resolved that the thanks of the company be tendered to Hon. W. A. Gorman for
                        Books, &c. received through him, and the Secretary was directed to forward that
                        gentleman a copy of the same. The Com. on Books was authorized to subscribe for the City papers
                        if they deemed it expedient.
                    An election was then held for officers to serve during the year with the following result:
                        President, Joseph Somes; Directors, W. W. Hitt, B. M. Thomas, R. Y. Caddington, Geo. D. Hay, H.
                        E. Peck; Librarian, James A. Mason; Treasurer, William Burtch.
                    The reports of the Treasurer and Librarian were received and ordered to be filed.
                    The Appendix to Congressional Globe, 2 vols., and the Patent Office Report (Agric'l.
                        Depart.) for 1850-'51 had been received through the politeness of Mr. Gorman.
                    The Librarian was directed to keep the Library open from three to four o'clock only
                        Saturday afternoons.
                    On motion the meeting adjourned.
                    J. A. Mason, Secy.
                
            
                    Annual Meeting—February 7th, 1853.
                    The Stockholders met agreeably to the provission of the charter.
                    On motion of Samuel Judah, Esqr. Dr. Somes was called to the Chair.
                    On motion of Mr. McCord, the sum of one dollar per share was remited on the contributions due for
                        the past year.
                    An election was then held for Directors to serve for the current year, when the following
                        gentlemen were chosen: Directors, Samuel Judah, Wm. R. McCord, W. M. Hitt, Wm. J. Heberd, R. Y.
                        Caddington; President, Joseph Somes; Librarian, James A. Mason; & W. Burtch, Treasurer.
                    On motion of Mr. Judah, it was Resolved, That James A. Mason be presented with one share as
                        compensation for services as Librarian for the past year.
                    On motion the meeting adjourned.
                    Jas. A. Mason, Secretary
                    Joseph Somes Chn.
                
            
            
                    [February 12, 18531
                    At a Meeting of the Directors held at the Library Room Feby. 12. 1853. The President in the
                        Chair—Present: Hitt, Caddington—& Somes.
                    
                  Committees appointed
                  
                     On Finance
                     McCord, Heberd, Caddington
                  
                  
                     On Books
                     Hitt, Judah, Caddington
                  
                  
                     On Library
                     Judah, Heberd, Caddington
                  
               
                    Resolved that the Chairman of the Committee on Books be appointed to settle with the Treasurer
                        & see what amount of money can be obtained & that such Amount be appropriated
                        for the purchase of Books.— carried.
                
            
                    Annual Meeting of the Stock-holders,
                    Feb. 5th 1855
                    No Meeting this year.
                
            
                    [February 4, 18561
                    Annual Meeting of the Stock holders of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company February 4th, 1856.
                    The stockholders assembled in the City Council Room over the Library and organized by calling
                        John Moore to the chair and appointing J. A. McClaugherty Librarian to be secretary. The
                        following members were present: John Moore, Wm. Burtch, Joseph Somes, Geo. D. Hay, Wm. J.
                        Heberd, Willis M. Hitt and James A. Mason, & Wm. R. McCord.
                    After a careful examination of the Books it was ordered that the shares of following named
                        stockholders be declared forfeited to the Library on account of nonpayment of dues in accordance
                        with the Laws of the Company; to witt; John Law, Jesse K. Dubois, James W. Greenhow, Daniel
                        Smith, and J. B. Martin,—Provided, that the Treasurer be directed to call on the two
                        surv[iv]ing individuals, Messrs. Law and Dubois, and if they shall pay up their dues, the above
                        order to be null and void, so far as the said Law and Dubois are concerned.
                    On motion of Dr. Somes it was ordered that a contribution of one dollar be levied on each
                        stockholder for the past year; And that the Treasurer be directed to proceed as early as
                        possible to collect the same, and also to collect all dues 
                        accruing to the Company and make a full report of the conditions of his office to the board of
                        Directors at an early day.
                    The meeting then proceeded to the election of Directors for the ensuing year, which resulted as
                        follows: For President, Joseph Somes; For Directors, John Moore, Geo. D. Hay, W. J. Heberd, W.
                        W. Hitt, Jas. A. Mason.
                    On motion the meeting adjourned.
                    J. A. McCaugherty Secretary
                    Joseph Somes Prest.
                
            
                    February 9th, 1856
                    Meeting of the Board of Directors of The 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Company. Present: Dr. Somes, President; John Moore, W. J. Heberd, G. D.
                        Hay, Directors.
                    The President appointed the following Standing Committees for the present year:
                    Committee on finance W. J. Heberd, W. W. Hitt, Jno. Moore
                    Committee on buildings John Moore, G. D. Hay, J. A. Mason
                    Committee on Books Jas. A. Mason, G. D. Hay, W. W. Hitt
                    On motion it was ordered that Dr. Some's account of $1.00 for Library Key
                        per P. Elwere, be allowed and a credit entered for the amount.
                    On motion it was also ordered that the Committee on buildings examine the condition of the
                        present library room, and accertain whether the same can be put in good repair, and if it can,
                        at what expense, and report to the next meeting of the directors.
                    The following resolutions were unanimously passed:—
                    Resolved—that our Treasurer Wm. Burtch be instructed to collect all Sums due the
                        Company as soon as possible.
                    Resolved—That the Committee on Books examine into the condition of the Books on hand
                        and report whether the Books are liable to injury in their present location; And also that the
                        same Committee be directed to prepare a list of valuable works to be purchased by the Company as
                        soon as the necessary amount of funds are obtained.
                    Resolved further that the committee on Books with the assistance of the Librarian, prepare a
                        catalogue of the Books and ascertain at what price the same, with library regulations appended
                        can be printed for.
                    It was also ordered by the Board that J. F. Bayard be entitled to one share in the Library upon
                        his paying into the Treasury the sum of seven dollars.
                    
                    The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the President after the Committees had prepared
                        to report.
                    J. A. McClaugherty—Secty.
                
            
                    [July 13, 1856]
                    At a meeting of the Directors held on the 13th day of July, 1856, Dr. Somes, the
                        President—in the Chair, explained the object of the meeting to be the selection of a
                        Librarian in place of Mr. McClaugherty, who has left the town, and to consider the propriety of
                        purchasing new books and the putting of the books in the index &c.
                    On motion, of Mr. Heberd the Committee on books was authorized to employ a suitable person to put
                        the books of the Library in good order, and complete the catalogue; and that, in the meanwhile,
                        Hon. John Moore act as Librarian. The committee, after completing the work, to report to the
                        President.
                    On motion, the Chairman of the Book Committee was ordered to purchase a list of new books, read
                        and appended this day.
                    On motion, Mr. Hay was directed to examine the register as soon as practicable, and call upon
                        every man against, whom any whom [books?] may be charged, and request him to deliver
                        over the same immediately.
                    The account of [Mr.?] Bishop for new steps to Library Room, $2.50 was
                        referred to Finance Committee with Instructions, that if Mr. Bishop would put up the additional
                        shelving for $8.50, (including bill for steps,) he be authorized to do the same.
                    On motion the value [of] shares of the Library be fixed at $12.00 from and after this
                        date.
                    It was resolved that non-stockholders be entitled to the use of the Books of this library upon
                        the payment of $2 per annum, or 25 cents per month, payable in advance. The librarian
                        to permit none but responsible men to avail themselves of this rule—other persons who
                        take out books must deposit the value of the works, with the librarian before the book is
                        delivered to him.
                    On motion the meeting adjourned.
                    James A. Mason Librarian & sec. pro tem.
                
            
            
                    
                  
                            Vincennes
                        , Dec. 10th 1856
                    The Boad met. President, Dr. Somes in the chair.—Mr. Hay reported that he had complied
                        with the resolution respecting lost or missing books, as far as practicable.
                    It becoming necessary to remove the library the Common Council desiring to use the room at
                        present occupied for the City Clerk's office, the following committee was appointed
                        to obtain a room in another building for the Library: James A. Mason, G. D. Hay, W. W. Hitt.
                    On motion Board adjourned to meet on Friday evening next at 3 o'clock P. M.
                    James A. Mason Librarian & Sec. Pro tem.
                
            
                    Feb. 9th 1857
                    [Seven illegible lines] examined was approved.
                    An election having been gone into Dr. Jos. Somes was elected President: Messrs. Ellis, Hitt,
                        Mason Usher and Bayard. Directors: Mr. Burtch, Treas'r.: R. M. Chapman Librarian.
                    On motion of Dr. Hitt it was resolved that a copy of the catalogue be given to each stockholder,
                        and that they be sold to non stockholders at 10 cents each.
                    On motion of Judge Ellis it was resolved that the Directors be instructed to see that all dues
                        are collected.
                    On motion the meeting adjourned sine die.
                    R. M. Chapman Librarian & Secy.
                
            
                    Apl. 18th 1857
                    Directors met this day—Present: Somes, Ellis, Usher, Mason.
                    Harvey, Mason & Co.'s a/c presented and referred to Finance Committee which
                        reported the same correct—and order was passed for its payment.
                    12 vols. of Spark's Life of 
                            Washington
                         were purchased of Judge Ellis at $2.50 pr. vol.
                    Ordered that the Pres't. draw on Treasurer for the above.
                    R. M. Chapman Secy.
                
            
                    Feb. 7th 1859
                    At a meeting of the shareholders held this day the following officers were elected: Joseph Somes,
                        President;  Directors, W. W. Hitt, R. M. Chapman, W. Burtch,
                        A. T. Ellis, Jas. A. Mason; William Burtch, Treasurer; R. M. Chapman, Librarian.
                    It was resolved that the share of W. W. Carr deceased be forfeited.
                    Resolved that as a compensation for his services as Librarian R. M. Chapman be made a shareholder
                        of one share in his own right.
                    The report of the Treasurer was read and adopted.
                    R. M. Chapman Secy.
                
            
                    Feb. 7th 1859
                    At a meeting of the Directors of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Association.
                    An order was passed in favor of Harvey, Mason & Co. for $29.75.
                    An order was passed to pay to Jos. Somes $12.00.
                    It was resolved that the treasurer proceed immediately to collect all delenquencies for annual
                        contributions on stock and if not promptly paid to resort to all legal remedies to enforce the
                        collection.
                    R. M. Chapman Sec'y.
                    Amendment of minutes.
                    The treasurer's report was read and adopted.
                    The following standing committees were elected:
                    On Finance—Ellis, Burtch and Hitt
                    On Books—Chapman Hitt and Ellis
                    Library Room & Furniture—Hitt, Chapman and Mason.
                
            
                    The Stockholders' Meeting [February 6, 1860]
                    The Stockholders of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library Co. met this Sixth day of February, 1860, in accordance to a notice
                        previously published.
                    On Motion, it was resolved that the annual contribution for the present year be One Dollar
                        instead of Two Dollars, as heretofore.
                    On Motion, Resolved, that the Clergy of 
                            Vincennes
                         be allowed the free use of the Library under the same rules and regulations by
                        which the stockholders are governed.
                    The meeting then proceeded to the election of Officers for the current year. The result was that
                        Joseph Somes was  elected President; A. T. Ellis, Wm.
                        Burtch, W. W. Hitt, R. M. Chapman, and James A. Mason, Directors; Wm. Burtch, Treasurer; and
                        Anson W. Jones, Librarian & Secretary.
                    No further business being before the Meeting, it adjourned.
                    Anson W. Jones Librarian & Sec'y.
                
            
                    [February 6, 1860?]
                    Directors' Meeting.—Committees appointed were: On Finance.—A. T.
                        Ellis, Wm. Burtch, & W. W. Hitt On Books.—R. M. Chapman, W. W. Hitt,
                        & A. T. Ellis On Library Room & Furniture.—W. W. Hitt, R. M. Chapman,
                    & J. A. Mason.
                    A. W. Jones Sec'y.
                
            
                    The Stockholder's Meeting. [February 4, 18611
                    In pursuance to a call the stockholders of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library convened this 4th day of February, 1861.
                    Present—Joseph Somes, W. W. Hitt, A. T. Ellis, R. M. Chapman.
                    On motion W. W. Hitt was appointed Temporary chairman, and Anson W. Jones Secretary.
                    A ballot was then held for President, Five Directors, Treasurer, and Librarian. The result was
                        that Dr. Joseph Somes was chosen President; W. W. Hitt, A. T. Ellis, W. Burtch, R. M. Chapman,
                        and A. W. Jones were chosen Directors; W. Burtch, Treasurer; and A. W. Jones, Librarian and
                        Secretary.
                    A motion prevailed before the ballotting took place to the effect that A. W. Jones be allowed one
                        share in the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library. Carried. Thereupon, A. W. Jones was duly declared a Share holder, in
                        consideration of his services as Secretary and Librarian for the past twelve months.
                    On motion, A. T. Ellis was requested to see to the condition of the claims against Emmison and
                        Thomas.
                    On motion the Treasurer was requested to collect all outstanding dues which parties owed to the
                        Association.
                    The meeting then adjourned.
                    Anson W. Jones, Lib. & Secretary.
                
            
            
                    Director's Meeting. [February 4, 1861?]
                    The President appointed the following committees:
                    On Finance.— Ellis, Burtch & Hitt.
                    On Books.— Chapman, Jones, & Ellis.
                    On Library.— Hitt, Chapman, & Jones.
                
            
                    
                  
                            Vincennes
                         February 6th 1871
                    The share holders met at the library room of the 
                            Vincennes
                         University building. On motion of Nathaniel Usher, William Burtch was appointed
                        chairman and F. W. Veihe Secy. of the meeting. An election was then held for officers which
                        resulted as follows: President Willis W. Hitt, Directors William Burtch, Joseph Somes, Nathaniel
                        Usher, William R. McCord and Fred W. Veihe, treasurer William Burtch, librarian F. W. Veihe.
                    On motion of Nathaniel Usher it was ordered that the librarian permit the officers and teachers
                        of the 
                            Vincennes
                         University the free use of any books in the library in consideration of the use of
                        the library room. There being no further business the meeting adjourned.
                    F. W. Veihe Librarian.
                
            
                    [March 4, 1871]
                    Meeting of the President and Directors of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Library, present: Willis W. Hitt, William R. McCord, Joseph Somes, William Burtch,
                        and Fred. W. Veihe. The treasurer made his report as follows: "Treasurer of 
                            Vincennes
                         library co. in account with the company.
                    
                  
                     Feb. 1860
                     To Balance on hand
                     $8.97
                  
                  
                     Feb. 7, 1861
                     " Cash from librarian
                     2.66
                  
                  
                     Mch. 6, 1870
                     " Cash from F. W. Veihe, Share
                     12.00
                  
                  
                     Feb. 1871
                     " " W. Hitt, contribution
                     2.00
                  
               
                    Respectfully Wm. Burtch T. V. L."
                    The report was approved.
                    On motion of Mr. Somes it was ordered that the library be opened every Saturday afternoon from 4
                        to 6 o clock.
                    On motion of Mr. McCord a bylaw was unanimously adopted as follows: "Any person may make
                        application to become a shareholder in the library and on payment of twelve  dollars to the treasurer his application shall be considered by the
                        Directors at their next meeting. If he is received as a member a certificate as now provided by
                        the bylaws shall be issued to him, if not received the money shall be refunded."
                    There being no further business the Board adjourned.
                    March 4, 1871 W. W. Hitt Pres.
                
            
                    [February 5, 1883]
                    At an annual meeting of the share holders held on the 6th of February 1883, at seven oclock P. M.
                        at the library room in the 
                            Vincennes
                         University building, the following proceedings were had.
                    Frederick W. Veihe, the librarian called the meeting to order, and stated that Willis W. Hitt,
                        the president, had departed this life, and that nominations for a chairman of the meeting were
                        in order. George G. Reily then nominated Smily N. Chambers as chairman, and there being no other
                        nominations he was by unanimous consent called to the chair and presided as chairman of the
                        meeting. Mr. Reily then moved that the librarian report the names of the several share holders
                        as they appear from the books of the company and the number as shares owned by each. The
                        librarian made the following report which was concurred in, to wit:
                    Mr. Chairman When the share holders last met the several shares stood in the following names,
                        each person named owned one share, Elihue Stout, Abner T. Ellis, John Badollet, Nicholas Smith,
                        W. J. Heberd, Joseph Somes, William Burtch, John Moore, Samuel Emison, Samuel Judah, R. Y.
                        Caddington, Samuel Hill, H. D. Wheeler, Samuel Tomlin-son, W. R. McCord, Geo. D. Hay, B. M.
                        Thomas, W. W. Hitt, J. A. Mason, J. F. Bayard, Nath. Usher, R. M. Chapman, A. W. Jones, F. W.
                        Veihe, and H. E. Peck.
                    Since that time there have been transferred, and the transfers entered on the librarians book as
                        follows:
                    
                  
                     1 The share of J. A. Mason, deceased, by his only heirs C. C. Mason
                            and Wm. C. Mason to Mason J. Niblack.
                  
                     2 The share of Abner T. Ellis, deceased, by his only heir, Lucy G.
                            Franklin, to F. W. Veihe.
                  
                     3 The share of R. M. Chapman, by himself, to F. W. Veihe.
                  
                  
                     4 The share of R. Y. Caddington, by himself, to F. W. Veihe.
                  
                     5 The share of H. E. Peck, by his legatee Emma E. Peck, to F. W.
                            Veihe.
                  
                     6 The share of Nathaniel Usher, by his only heirs E. M. Usher, N. R.
                            Usher and P. E. Usher, to George G. Reily.
                  
                     7 The share of Samuel Judah, by his devisees Samuel B. Judah, John M.
                            Judah and Noble B. Judah, to George G. Reily.
                  
                     8 The share of William Burtch, he assigned himself to F. M. Harris who
                            assigned the same to George G. Reily (with reservations).
                  
                     9 The share of John Moore, by his devisee, Mary A. Moore, to George G.
                            Reily.
                  
                     10 The share of Nicholas Smith, deceased, by the trustees under his
                            will, to George G. Reily.
                  
                     11 The share of Elihu Stout, deceased, assigned by him to Henry S.
                            Cauthorn, and by him to George G. Reily.
                  
                     12 The share of W. J. Heberd, by his son Wm. Heberd, who acquired the
                            whole interest therein, to George G. Reily.
                  
                     13 The share of W. W. Hitt, deceased, by Ellen P. Hitt, devisee, to
                            George G. Reily.
                  
                     14 The share of A. W. Jones, by his heirs Mary E. Jones, Miss
                            [?] C. Jones and Nellie E. Jones to William C. Niblack.
                  
                     15 The share of W. R. McCord given to S. N. Chambers and Dora M.
                            Chambers and the latter assigned her in terest therein to the former.
               
                    The several assignments are submitted herewith.
                    F. W. Veihe librarian.
                    The share holders then proceeded by ballot to the election of officers which resulted as follows:
                        George G. Reily, President; Frederick W. Veihe, librarian; Smily N. Chambers, treasurer.
                    The librarian reported that he had received the complete works of Swedenberg and he deposited the
                        same in the library. That this was a donation on condition that the books should be placed in
                        the library; that he had paid the express charges thereon amounting to two dollars and seventy
                        five cents; and this amount was allowed to him and ordered to be paid by  the treasurer out of any funds in his hands belonging to the
                        association.
                    Directors were elected by ballot as follows: Smily N. Chambers, George G. Reily, Frederick W.
                        Veihe, William C. Niblack and Mason J. Niblack.
                    On motion of Mason J. Niblack it was ordered that F. W. Veihe and George G. Reily be a committee
                        to ascertain on what terms and for what price such of the books and bookcases as in their
                        opinion ought to be sold, can be disposed of; and that a special meeting of the share holders be
                        held on the first Monday in April 1883, at seven oclock P. M. at this place to receive their
                        report.
                    There being no further business the meeting adjourned.
                    F. W. Veihe librarian.
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The House of the Singing Winds: The Life and Work of T. C. Steele. By Selma N.
                    Steele, Theodore L. Steele, and Wilbur D. Peat. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1966. Pp. x, 209. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $12.60.)
            The life of Theodore C. Steele, one of Indiana's foremost painters, is recounted in this
                    three-part volume. Part one—"The Life"—a biographical sketch
                    by the artist's grandson, Theodore L. Steele, is based largely on the
                    painter's journals, notebooks, and correspondence. Born on a farm in 
                        Owen County
                     in 1847, Steele spent most of his youth in 
                        Waveland
                    , Indiana, becoming interested in drawing and painting at an early age. After his
                    graduation from the 
                        Waveland
                     Collegiate Institute and his marriage to Libby Lakin, the Steeles lived for several
                    years in Battle Creek, 
                        Michigan
                    , where the artist painted portraits and conducted drawing classes. By 1873 Steele had
                    moved to 
                        Indianapolis
                     where his work soon won recognition. In 1880, with the help of friends there, he left
                    the city for five years to study painting at the Royal Academy in Munich. On his return to 
                        Indianapolis
                     he busied himself with teaching and portrait painting. His Munich years had increased
                    his interest in painting landscapes directly from nature and he was soon spending much of his time
                    in this field in the Muscatatuck, Mississinewa, and Whitewater valleys. In 1897 Steele and Ottis J.
                    Adams bought the "Hermitage" in 
                        Brookville
                     for their studio-homes. There Steele painted for many years while maintaining his 
                        Indianapolis
                     home for wintertime. In 1899, after failing health for several years, Libby Steele
                    died.
            Sometime before 1907 Steele had explored 
                        Brown County
                     in search of a new "painting ground." In the spring of that year he
                    bought land there and began construction of the studio-home which is now preserved by the state of
                    Indiana as the T. C. Steele Memorial. In August he married Selma Neubacher, and they began their
                    married life together in their new hill country home.
            The second part of the book is a reminiscence of the 
                        Brown County
                     period of Steele's life from 1907 until his death in 1926, written by Selma
                    Steele several years before her death in 1945. Adjusting to their new life in 
                        Brown County
                    , at that time a very remote and backward area, was both trying and at times amusing.
                    However, the painter found the rural scenery there was to supply him with inspiration and motifs for
                    his paintings for years to come. Other artists shortly followed Steele to the county, and an art
                    colony soon formed around 
                        Nashville
                    , the county seat. Steele's paintings, widely exhibited in Indiana and
                    nationally, did much to start the influx of both artists and tourists to 
                        Brown County
                     which continues today.
            Until their home was adapted for year-round living, the Steeles spent their winters in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It was then that he arranged exhibits and fulfilled many of his portrait commissions.
                    He continued doing portraits throughout his life, but in these later years landscape  painting, which Steele considered "the most distinctive form
                    of American art" (p. 142), was of prime interest to him. With his 
                        Brown County
                     studio so close to 
                        Bloomington
                     the painter had long enjoyed a close relationship with Indiana University, where he had
                    earlier been presented with an honorary degree, the Doctor of Laws. He had also painted portraits of
                    many of its presidents and faculty members. In 1922 he accepted an invitation to become an honorary
                    professor of art, and much of the last four years of his life was spent on campus as a resident
                    artist.
            The final section of the book—"The Work"—is a critique by the
                    late Wilbur D. Peat, for many years director of the John Herron Art Museum of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Peat also assisted in selecting the many paintings that are well-reproduced in this
                    volume.
            
                    
                  
                            Brown County
                        , Indiana
                
            Kenneth J. Reeve
         
         
            
               Guide to the Manuscripts of the State Historical Society of 
                            Wisconsin
                        . Supplement Number Two. By Josephine L. Harper. (
                        Madison
                    : State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1966. Pp. x, 276. Index. $9.00.)
            This guide supplements previous ones published by Alice E. Smith in 1944 and by Josephine L. Harper
                    and Sharon C. Smith in 1967. It covers some four million pieces acquired, arranged, and catalogued
                    by the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                     between mid-1956 and the beginning of 1966.
            The collections, ranging from the papers of jurist Charles L. Aarons to journalist Helen Zotos, are
                    alphabetically arranged and described in terms of subject matter content. The manuscripts, some as
                    early as the seventeenth century, may be organized chronologically, topically, or alphabetically.
                    The over eight hundred entries vary in size from a few lines to several pages. The size, types of
                    documents, whether photocopies (with the location of the original manuscripts designated), any
                    restrictions on use, see also references to other entries including those the present ones may be
                    supplementing in the previous guides, and other pertinent data are included. Since quarterly
                    accession reports appearing in the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Magazine of History as soon as the manuscript acquisitions are available for use
                    include the provenance of each collection, that information is not repeated here. Also not listed
                    are manuscripts on deposit only, small groups which contain fewer than ten items, and certain
                    genealogical and local history sketches. An ample subject and name index facilitates the use of the
                    guide.
            In 
                        Wisconsin
                    , since 1962, a decentralization program has established area research centers at seven
                    of the state universities' libraries. Miss Harper describes all manuscripts which have
                    been organized and catalogued for placement at these centers and notes their locations. This
                    arrangement does not necessarily hinder visiting scholars, however, because the dispersed
                    collections can be brought back to 
                        Madison
                     for use if sufficient notice is given.
            
            The present guide reflects the special collecting interests of the state historical society over the
                    last decade and the systematic way in which it is concerned with many facets of the contemporary
                    scene as well as the past. One of the emphases has been on the papers of organizations with direct
                    or indirect concern for some aspect of education (e.g., the Methodist Church, the United World
                    Federalists), as well as the personal papers of educators themselves. The role of mass
                    communications in modern America has been another emphasis. This has resulted in many significant
                    additions in such fields as public relations and advertising, radio and television, and stage and
                    screen (e.g., papers of H. V. Kaltenborn, records of the National Broadcasting Company). Another
                    major concern has been to augment the already sizable holdings on labor, as with the papers of the
                    Textile Workers Union of America and of the American Federation of Labor.
            The range of interest is clearly not confined to 
                        Wisconsin
                     or 
                        Wisconsin
                    -related subjects. Historians have long recognized the holdings of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     society as significant to the study of many facets of American history. Those whose
                    primary interest is Indiana history will find much of importance in the acquisitions of the last
                    decade. For example, in the territorial period are records of the Continental Congress and the
                    papers of Arthur St. Clair and William Henry Harrison. Correspondence of mid-nineteenth century
                    Indiana congressman John Givan Davis and the papers of Benjamin Harrison are included. The
                    manuscripts of Bradley R. Taylor contain his correspondence of 1952-1967 on behalf of the memorial
                    section of the American Legion Library in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            This guide and its two predecessors give a complete picture of the holdings of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     historical society. Together they are an indispensable reference tool for research.
            
                    Miami University
                
            Dwight L. Smith
         
         
            
               Benjamin Lundy and the Struggle for Negro Freedom. By Merton L. Dillon. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1966. Pp. vi, 286. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography, index. $6.75.)
            Merton Dillon has surveyed the extant writings of Benjamin Lundy and produced this well-written,
                    lively drama, the first full-length biography of the pioneer abolitionist. Little is known of
                    Lundy's rural 
                        New Jersey
                     upbringing; but about 1809 the small, slender youth became a saddler in Wheeling,
                    western 
                        Virginia
                    , where, after flirting briefly with worldly amusements, he rededicated himself to
                    Quakerism. The sight of slave traders herding chained Negroes down city streets caused him to vow to
                    God to "break at least one link of that ponderous chain of oppression" (p. 7).
            In 1821 Lundy established the Genius of Universal Emancipation, the only abolition
                    newspaper to function throughout the twenties. It was first located in small towns in 
                        Ohio
                    , then in Greeneville, 
                        Tennessee
                    , and later in 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Washington
                    . Envisioning that Negro colonization would dispel the southern fear of troublesome
                    freedmen and would prove his argument that free Negro labor could outproduce  slave labor, Lundy supported the American Colonization Society and
                    traveled several times to Negro colonies in upper 
                        Canada
                     and 
                        Haiti
                    . In addition to writing, editing, and printing the Genius, he organized abolition
                    societies and spoke for antislavery political action.
            Although Lundy excoriated slaveholders as "too depraved to blush, and too wicked to
                    repent" (p. 53), he rarely if ever doubted that political action was the only feasible way
                    to end slavery. Dillon argues that both the irrational impulse for reform prompted by the Great
                    Revival and the apparent failure of gradualist appeals influenced abolitionists of the
                    1830's. Led by Lundy's ex-printing apprentice, William Lloyd Garrison, a new
                    generation of radicals opposed Lundy's gradualism and demanded immediate emancipation.
                    Countering Garrison's moral appeals, Lundy persistently predicted that "economic
                    coercion … would work where moral argument had failed" (p. 179). To give life to
                    his faith, he acquired a land grant in 
                        Texas
                     where he planned to demonstrate the successful use of free Negro labor and to supply
                    free-labor stores with the produce necessary to compete with southern goods. When Garrison
                    caustically attacked his plan, Lundy asserted that economic arguments must accompany moral-religious
                    appeals in order to persuade "not only the preachers, but also the moralizers, the
                    political orators, and even bankers and planters" (p. 211). Many abolitionists scorned such
                    ideas; the circulation of the Genius dwindled; and, after a brief imprisonment for debt, Lundy
                    turned from moralizing abolitionists to profit-seeking businessmen for money to support his
                    colonization schemes.
            Dillon finds a fundamental continuity in the abolition movement from the 1820's through
                    1840. Lundy and Garrison, for example, differed in "style rather than in the substance of
                    their thought" (p. 147). Lundy's inability to motivate change indicates to
                    Dillon that the "highly individualistic" spirit of the age nullified arguments
                    predicated on "the welfare of the community" (p. 77). Morally and materially
                    dependent upon slavery, southerners were beyond the reach of verbal persuasion. Dillon attributes
                    Lundy's persistent gradualism largely to a faith in reason inherited from the
                    Enlightenment.
            Lundy had more faith in reason than does Dillon. In 1824 the gentle 
                        Quaker
                     helped to convince 
                        Illinois
                     voters, some with a southern orientation, to defeat an important pro-slavery measure.
                    Were nonslaveholding southerners immune to Lundy's varied appeals? An
                    examination of firsthand accounts of their reactions to his arguments might answer this question.
            Indiana University
            John C. Hammerback
         
         
            
               Richard Yates: Civil War Governor. By Richard Yates and Catharine Yates
                    Pickering. Edited by John H. Krenkel. (
                        Danville
                    , Ill.: The Interstate Printers & Publishers, Inc., 1966. Pp. 300.
                    Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $8.95.)
            "I address myself to the task of presenting the life of my father, soliciting the sympathy
                    of my readers, for it is an ordeal for the son of a man to do him justice" (p. 49). In 1933
                    Richard Yates, aided  his father, Civil War governor of 
                        Illinois
                    . Three years later the completed manuscript suffered from all the evils inherent in
                    such works: it was biased; the treatment was uneven; and the style often revealed more about the
                    author than about the subject. Yet Yates' "ordeal" also had its merits.
                    Since the political careers of both men were similar-ch served as governor of 
                        Illinois
                     and in the national Congress-the son could appreciatively interpret his father, the
                    politician. Extensive quotations from the elder Yates' papers clearly revealed
                    "the walking and talking, living and loving man" (p. 49), which was the
                    author's hope for his biography. The letters, newspaper items, and speeches also
                    presented the full flavor of thirty years of 
                        Illinois
                     and national political history.
            In 1969 Mrs. Pickering asked John H. Krenkel to prepare her father's manuscript for
                    publication. Considering the extent of the Yates Collection, he has done an excellent job. He has
                    conformed to all the rules of editorial procedure; and although this reviewer would have liked his
                    comments to be more interpretative, Krenkel's extensive footnotes and bibliography
                    adequately supplement the original text. Indeed, the editor's lack of interpretation
                    pinpoints the major fault, which may also be the major strength, of this volume. Richard Yutes:
                    Civil Wm Governor is an appetizer; it leaves the reader hungry for a more complete, more objective
                    biography. The younger Yates was not explicit about the political shenanigans which occurred during
                    his father's gubernatorial career; the contemporaries of Richard Y a k , Sr., do not
                    emerge as real people; and the coverage of Yates' senatorial years is sketchy. Krenkel,
                    as editor, cannot be blamed for these omissions; rather, he should be praised for providing his
                    readers with even this incomplete glimpse of Yates and his era.
            This volume will also prove interesting to Hoosiers who wish to compare the 
                        Illinois
                     executive to their own Civil War governor. Yates, as his son described him, was suave,
                    sophisticated, Sristocratic-a gentleman. In comparison, Oliver P. Morton was a blunt, pugnacious,
                    tactless plebian. Yet both were skilled political strategists who thought well of their own
                    abilities. Both were sincere patriots who dealt ruthlessly but competently with opponents who they
                    felt would harm the Union, and, incidentally, the Republican, cause.
            Indiana University
            Lorna Lutes Sylvester
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Illinois
                         in the Civil War. By Victor Hicken. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xiv, 391. Illustrations, notes, sources, index. $7.60.)
            This volume is an attempt to record the contributions of the 
                        Illinois
                     soldia to the fighting forces of the nation from 1861 to 1866. The book focuses on the
                    ordinary soldier's feelings and attitudes toward eastern generals, Negro troops,
                    Copperheads, the threat of capture, and life in prison camps. Most of the data used are based on
                    information found in regimental histories and soldiers' diaries, memoirs, and
                    reminiscences.
            
            Hicken has extensively examined the personal papers of 
                        Illinois
                     General John A. McClernand and considers the Battle of 
                        Arkansas
                     Post as both a turning point and high mark of his career. Grant's
                    biographers have stressed McClernand's faults, but Hicken believes that "few
                    have attempted to understand the nature of the man they are so quick to label a political
                    general" (p. 153). Hicken's portrait of McClernand reveals "an
                    impulsive, overly ambitious, and genuinely patriotic man who was frustrated at every turn by men who
                    knew the ritual of the military profession better than himself" (p. 153). In the final
                    analysis the author agrees with Robert R. McCormick that "it is plain that faith was not
                    kept with him [McClernand] and that his indignation was just" (p. 153).
            Hicken ascribes the rapid increase in desertions from 
                        Illinois
                     regiments following the winter of 1862-63 to the emancipation and arming of Negroes and
                    the military reverses of 1862. By April, 1863, desertion was so widespread that the 
                        Illinois
                     State Journal reported that "Democratic Boys … gre coming home
                    every day" (p. 139). Desertions from 
                        Illinois
                     totaled 13,046 for the entire war. (Ella Lonn, in her study of this problem, gives the
                    figure as 16,083). In his analysis of Copperhead influence on desertions, Hicken tends to minimize
                    the particularly violent nature of many of the Copperhead activities, such as a mob attack at Du
                    Quoin in July, 1863, when some four hundred men attacked a deputy provost marshal and seized the
                    deserters that were being guarded.
            The most serious fault in this study is the nebulous and often confusing method of footnoting. Two
                    sources are frequently cited without making clear from which one a particular quotation or
                    interpretation came. In many cases the citations are clearly not relevant to the discussion but
                    serve only as a supplemental guide to further study. For example, on page 355 Hicken discusses
                    General John H. Winder, the commander of Union prisoners in 
                        Georgia
                    , and lists twentyseven pages from Hesseltine's book Civil War Pvisons and
                    thirteen pages from This Was Andersonville as the sources. References such as these should have been
                    inserted in the bibliography. On page 87, Hicken refers to McClernand's ambitions to
                    obtain an independent command and cites Wood Gray's study of Copperheads (p. 216), which
                    is a description of opposition to the draft in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        New York
                    . There are numerous other examples of careless and inaccurate craftsmanship throughout
                    the book which seriously restricts its value for the Civil War scholar. The book will, however, have
                    appeal for those who are interested in a popular account of the everyday life of the men in blue
                    from the 
                        Prairie
                     State.
            Indiana University
            Richard Thomas
         
         
            
               History of the 
                            Chicago
                         Urban League. By Arvarh E. Strickland. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1966. Pp. 286. Notes, bibliography, index. $7.50.)
            Strickland deals with a subject of significance, and he sees his subject whole. The 
                        Chicago
                     Urban League's half-century of trial 
                    and stress is recounted in a manner that bears witness to the larger struggles of the American
                    Negro, and that is a theme of such exceptional importance to contemporary national existence that
                    any part of the story that contributes to an understanding of the whole deserves commendation. If
                    Strickland fails at all in this endeavor, it is only at the highest level where all aspects of the
                    American experience are harmonized. But that is a characteristic failing of monographic studies,
                    particularly of those that begin as doctoral dissertations.
            An agonizing and enormo'lsly important question haunts the pages of this history,
                    imparting unity and purpose to the book: to what extent was the league compromised by its system of
                    patronage? The author makes it abundantly clear that from the outset a few wealthy
                    patrons had the league by the throat and that these patrons were not loathe to lay down terms for
                    their continued support. So it was that the league came to be "considered the
                    ‘citadel’ of ‘accepted’ leadership" (p. 110),
                    but at a price that kept its well-intentioned executives in a continual state of tension as they
                    strove to satisfy both their patrons and the urgent needs of their clients. Here is the source of
                    the discontent with the league latterly voiced by younger Negro militants; and indeed what finally
                    gave it some freedom of action was precisely the civil rights explosion generated by the militants.
                    Still, Strickland concludes, "without the ‘old’ Urban League, there
                    could have been no ‘new’ Urban League" (p. 264).
            Stokely Carmichael and Julian Bond might not agree. They might argue that the new posture of the
                    Urban League is qualitatively different from that of the old, and they might very well point to the
                    evidence arrayed by the author himself as proof of that contention. What makes this argument of more
                    than marginal interest to American historians is just that it is a refined version of the argument
                    over the continuity of American reform, so that the author's data concerning the
                    particular history of a particular aspect of American reform is finally applicable to a wider realm
                    of events. It would have been helpful to the author in his search for the meaning of the league
                    experience in 
                        Chicago
                     if he had seen these broader implications of his study. Perhaps then he would have been
                    able to conclude that the withdrawal of Rosenwald funds during the late twenties was more than a
                    product of personal eccentricity, but more meaningfully an expression of a general retreat from
                    reform that characterized those years. Strickland might also have seen some connection with
                    Progressivism in the league's origins, as he might have noted the substantially different
                    orientation toward the league in the New Deal era.
            But let these final reservations merely stand as an indication of the usefulness of this excellent
                    study. That usefulness is considerably enhanced by a judicious application to the sources, by clear
                    writing and good organization. Strickland's work will certainly appear in the citations
                    of other writers.
            Indiana University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            Bernard Friedman
         
         
         
            
               Causes and Consequences of the American Revolution. Edited by Esmond Wright. (
                        Chicago
                    : Quadrangle Books, 1966. Pp. 316. Notes. Clothbound, $7.50 ; paperbound, $2.46.)
            This book of readings on the American Revolution is considerably enhanced by a forty-page
                    historiographical Introduction by Esmond Wright. In this Introduction the author in turn discusses
                    accounts of the Revolution from the Revolutionary age itself, the Nationalist interpretation
                    typified by Bancroft, the Imperial school which reached its peak in Charles M. Andrews, the Beardian
                    "Progressives," the modern "Neo-Whigs," and the British
                    "Conservative" view of Sir Lewis Namier and his followers. This is a concise,
                    perceptive account which concentrates on causes rather than consequences of the Revolution. It is
                    followed by a useful bibliography divided into the same categories, with the addition of a section
                    on "State Studies."
            The remainder of the book does not exactly follow the pattern laid down in the Introduction. Wright
                    has taken his selections from articles published in scholarly journals and in books and has divided
                    them into the two broad categories of "Causes" and
                    "Consequences." His selections on the causes of the Revolution are only from the
                    Imperialist, Progressive, Neo-Whig, and Conservative interpretations. Yet, the most important
                    historians of these groups are well represented: 
                        Osgood
                    , Andrews, and Gipson from the Imperialists; Schlesinger and Hacker from the
                    Progressives; Davidson, Harper, and Morgan from the Neo-Whigs; and Namier and Wright from the
                    Conservatives. Wright prefaces each selection with a brief note on the author and his views. Such
                    notes are useful, but perhaps could have been improved for students by a little more information on
                    the historians themselves.
            The third section of Wright's book, which contains selections under the general head of
                    ‘LConsequences," is not really dealt with in the Introduction. It begins with
                    Richard B. Morris’ well known article on "The Confederation Period and the
                    American Historian," and then has sections on consequences for the 
                        United States
                     and for the world. The theme here is of necessity not as consistent as in the section
                    on causes. Perhaps the most interesting selections are Frederick B. Tolles ‘re-evaluation
                    of Jameson and Louis Gottschalk's discussion of the American Revolution in relation to
                    the French Revolution.
            All in all, this volume is superior to many of the books of readings that appear on the market and
                    provides a very useful introduction to historical writing on the American Revolution.
            University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    -Milwaukee
            Reginald Horsman
         
         
            
               America's Frontier Heritage. By Ray Allen Billington. [Histories of
                    the American Frontier. Edited by Ray Allen Billington.] (
                        New York
                    : Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1966. Pp. xiv, 302. Notes, bibliographical notes. $5.96.)
            Although Billington in his voluminous writings has produced monographs on many phases of American
                    history, his first love is American frontier history. In addition to this work, he has authored  four other major works on the frontier, the most comprehensive
                    of which is Westward Expansion. At present he is engaged in editing an eighteen-volume series
                    entitled the Histories of the American Frontier of which this is the fifth volume.
            America's Frontier Heritage is in the tradition of Michel-Guillaume St. Jean de
                    Crevecoeur's Letters From An Ammecan Famner, Alexis de Tocqueville's Democracy
                    in America, and Frederick J. Turner's, The Frontier in American History. Although
                    Billington essentially is in agreement with the basic Turner thesis, he does attempt in this work to
                    indicate the modifications and complexity of the frontier influence as it merges with other factors
                    in the creation of the "American." Generally, however, whenever a historian
                    attempts to balance historical factors, he leaves the thesis muddied and less striking, and this is
                    the case in America's Frontier Hehtage. Probably Billington's best
                    generalization on the influence of the frontier on Americans is as follows: "To say that
                    three centuries of westering made the people of the 
                        United States
                     more democratic or more nationalistic is to invite the criticism of scholars who can
                    prove that this group or that in America was less democratic or nationalistic than such and such a
                    group beyond the seas. Yet one generalization seems justified : the pioneering experience helped
                    exaggerate certain traits until the differences were observable to visitors from other
                    lands" (p. 219).
            In America's Frontier Heritage, Billington has attempted to identify attitudes and
                    behavioral traits that were judged to be distinctively American by overseas visitors. Traits
                    discussed include social mobility, political democracy, individualism with a sprinkling of
                    cooperation, nationalism, wastefulness, resourcefulness and inventiveness, physical mobility,
                    optimism, ethnocentrism, inquisitiveness, braggadocia, antitraditionalism, belief in hard work,
                    anti-intellectualism, materialism, and deference for the female.
            As Billington attempts to present the pros and cons on the origin and presence of these behavioral
                    traits in Americans, he encounters some built-in obstacles. First, to prove conclusively the origin
                    of a people's character traits is virtually impossible. Second, it is equally difficult
                    to attain the objectivity necessary to analyze scientifically the behavioral traits of a people.
                    Third, it is perhaps even harder to generalize on the average characteristics of millions of people.
                    Considering the magnitude of the problems inherent in research of this nature, Billington on the
                    whole has done a very commendable job in describing and delineating the heritage of the American
                    frontier.
            Billington's exploration of sources relating to the frontier has been thorough and
                    comprehensive. Sources which he particularly scrutinized include travel accounts of European
                    visitors to the 
                        United States
                     and writings of sociologists, anthropologists, and demographers. One of the most
                    significant portions of this work is the sixty-five pages of "Notes" and
                    "Bibliographical Notes" which is the best bibliography on the American frontier
                    that the reviewer has seen. The book has no index, but in light of its content, an index would
                    probbaly have been of very little value.
            
            It is possible that the Indian played little or no part in the development of the character traits of
                    Americans, but if he did, America's Frontier Heritage sheds little light on his role.
            Overall, America's Frontier Heritage is an excellent work that should be in most libraries
                    and of great interest to all students and general readers who desire to know more about the origins
                    and peculiarities of the American character.
            
               
                        Arkansas
                     Polytechnic College
            Kenneth R. Walker
         
         
            
               Abraham Lincoln: A History. By John G. Nicolay and John Hay. Abridged and edited
                    by Paul M. Angle. [Classic American Histom'ans. Edited by Paul M. Angle.] (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xix, 394. Notes, illustrations, bibliographical note, index.
                    Paperbound, $3.45; clothbound, $8.50.)
            Shortly after Lincoln's tragic assassination a torrent of biographical writing began that
                    has not yet run its course. As of 1939 Jay Monaghan's standard Lincoln Bibliography
                    listed some four thousand separate titles concerning Lincoln, not including articles. By now five
                    thousand or more such works exist. Although the earliest of the Lincoln biographers were generally
                    the weakest, in 1890 his two former secretaries, John G. Nicolay and John Hay, published their
                    notable tenvolume Abraham Lincoln, A History. It was the result of more than twenty years of
                    personal knowledge and careful note-taking by alert and intimate observers of Lincoln's
                    role as president. Furthermore, Lincoln had cooperated with his secretaries in gathering relevant
                    manuscript materials. Although Nicolay and Hay had every possible opportunity to present a biography
                    of the "inner Lincoln," particularly in times of great national stress, they
                    fashioned instead a conventional history of the 
                        United States
                     from Lincoln's birth until the end of the Civil War, serialized first for
                    Century Magazine. In its pages he emerged as the central figure of a
                    "life-and-times" approach. The original volumes encompassed the major facets of
                    Lincoln's career but did so in a conventional way, reprinting documents and letters to
                    which Nicolay and Hay alone had access--until these manuscripts were much later made available to
                    scholars.
            Immersed as the authors were in the political atmosphere of post- Civil War Republicanism, a
                    conservative and highly proper Lincoln, quite different from William Herndon's damaging
                    caricature, emerged. The Nicolay and Hay work, authorized by Lincoln's son, Robert Todd
                    Lincoln, possessed both the merits and defects of an official biography. Though exhaustive, its
                    argument was marred by party bias and was lacking in fundamental interpretive skill. Nevertheless,
                    Nicolay and Hay's detailed volumes remain indispensable to the serious Lincoln scholar.
                    His two secretaries were dedicated and loyal men whose exhaustive writings mirrored their close
                    personal association with and adulation of their chief.
            Abridged and edited now by Paul M. Angle, the original ten volumes are made available to modern
                    readers in manageable form. An introduction  precedes the
                    digested text. How successful this condensation into a single volume is remains a matter of
                    individual opinion. In this reviewer's judgment, the results are commendable. Yet it is
                    doubtful that Nicolay and Hay should now be labeled "classic" or
                    "great" historians and thereby included in the company of Prescott and Parkman.
                    They were hardly skilled practitioners of historiography, although they performed a valuable service
                    for posterity.
            Occidental College
            Andrew Rolle
         
         
            
               History of the 
                            United States
                         from the Compromise of 1850. By James Ford Rhodes. Abridged and edited by
                    Allan Nevins. [Classic American Historians. Edited by Paul M. Angle.] (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xxvi, 676. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical note, index.
                    Paperbound, $3.96 ; clothbound, $10.0 0. )
            James Ford Rhodes ‘massive History of the 
                        United States
                     From the Compromise of 1850 to the Final Restoration of Home Rule in the South in 1877,
                    published in seven volumes between 1892 and 1906, is one of the great works of American historical
                    writing. Rhodes, a 
                        Cleveland
                     businessman turned historian, was an honest researcher and a good judge of character
                    who brought much hard common sense-as well as the prejudices of his age-to his account of the
                    politics, diplomacy, and fighting of the Civil War era. He, more than anyone else, gave historical
                    substance to the view which thoughtful Northerners generally and Republicans in particular held of
                    the causes, course, and consequences of the war. His picture of these heroic years, altered in so
                    many particulars by subsequent study, is now being replaced in its entirety by an even more massive
                    and sweeping narrative, more gracefully written, more thoroughly researched, and better balanced, by
                    the greatest living American historian, Allan Nevins. Thus Rhodes ‘ work, superseded by a
                    great historical synthesis and lacking in the literary power of some of our other classical American
                    historians, seems doomed to the ever deepening oblivion of being respected but not read.
            This is unfortunate. The first five volumes of Rhodes ‘ history (taking the story to 1866)
                    offer one of the more pleasant surprises in store for readers of American history. One is
                    continually amazed at how good Rhodes was: how reasonable his explanations, how sharp his character
                    portraits, how much he knew about the era, how much closer his conclusions come to recent
                    scholarship than do those of many writers who came after him. And the prose, if not brilliant,
                    remains solid and serviceable. Rather than a musty period piece, one discovers, as Nevins writes in
                    introducing his abridgement of the first five volumes, "a magnificent piece of narrative
                    history that offers a larger combination of enjoyment and profit than any but a few historians
                    provide" (p. xxvi).
            The volume under review provides historians with an excellent introduction to Rhodes ‘
                    history-which is not to say a sufficient acquaintance.  For the
                    general reader, it distills the essential Rhodes. The well-chosen format-long uncut selections with
                    most footnotes omitted-shrinks over 2,300 pages in the original volumes to a neat 569 pages of
                    excellent reading. Nevins ‘ introduction is informative and offers a judicious assessment
                    of the work. The chapter introductions, a few paragraphs each, are gems. They summarize, raise
                    questions, and place Rhodes ‘ narrative into the context of subsequent historical writing
                    in a graceful manner and in amazingly few words. In all, this in an excellently executed book in a
                    very well-conceived series designed to make the classic American historians available to the general
                    reader. It should do that. But one hopes that among serious students of the American past this
                    volume whets more appetites than it satisfies.
            Indiana University
            Robert D. Marcus
         
         
            
               The Papers of Woodrow Wilson. Volume I, 1856-1880. Edited by Arthur S. Link. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J. : 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1966. Pp. xxviii, 715. Notes, illustrations, index. $15.00.)
            With publication of Volume I of The Papers of Woodrow Wilson, Arthur S. Link and his associates, John
                    Wells Davidson and David W. Hirst, embark on the first comprehensive documentary record of the life
                    and thought of the twenty-eighth President of the 
                        United States
                    . Wilson "rarely threw away anything he thought to be of possible
                    importance" (p. ix), say the editors; thus, the record he left of his own life is more
                    complete than that of most twentiethcentury political figures. Much of this material has not been
                    previously available, even to scholars. The editors hope to publish a comprehensive edition (forty
                    volumes) to include all important letters, articles, speeches, interviews, and public papers by
                    Wilson to make available to readers "all the materials essential to understanding
                    Wilson's personality, his intellectual, religious, and political development, and his
                    career as educator, writer, orator, and statesman" (p. xiv) .
            This first volume covers the period from Wilson's birth in 1856 to his withdrawal from the
                    University of 
                        Virginia
                     Law School in 1880. The editors point out that the ‘documentary record
                    before 1873 is virtually non-existent" (p. xxii) , and they print nothing from that period
                    except one letter and some notes from the family Bible. The papers are sparse for the short time
                    Wilson attended Davidson College, but become increasingly numerous and rich through the years at 
                        Princeton
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    . Accessible for the first time are the shorthand notes Wilson used in his diary and in
                    the classroom. Wilson taught himself the Graham system of shorthand, now obsolete, but the editors
                    secured the help of an aged expert to transcribe the notes. Other documents accessible for the first
                    time include Wilson's contributions to the Princetoniun; his father's
                    Presbyterian journal; academic notebooks; outlines of speeches; and three constitutions-for the
                    Liberal Debating Club at 
                        Princeton
                    , for the Jefferson Society at the University of 
                        Virginia
                    , and for an imaginary "Royal 
                        United Kingdom
                     Yacht Club."
            
            Letters comprise only a small portion of the text. The editors have only 29 Wilson letters (there are
                    30 diary entries) for the years before 1880, but they have 166 letters received by him. The bulk
                    (111) of the incoming letters were from his parents. The papers are arranged chronologically with
                    helpful cross references. There is an excellent index and an analytical table of contents.
            Wilson's papers show him, among other things, to have been pious (he concluded nearly
                    every diary entry with "Thank God for health and strength to live and learn") ;
                    rather human under his cold exterior ("A good many pretty girls at church tonight
                    … . This very warm weather makes it difficult for me to keep awake during
                    service" p. 138; "I've had no chance of attaching myself to any fair
                    maid this Summer. At the Cove, alas1 although there was every advantage of situation that a lover
                    might desire, there was no one to lovel-except one young damsel who was as harmless as she was
                    unattractive" p. 641) ; ambitious ("… we should, I think," he
                    wrote a classmate following graduation from 
                        Princeton
                    , "lose no opportunity offered US by leisure moments to improve ourselves in
                    style and knowledge … in order that when the time comes for us to write and work for a
                    cause we may be able to command a hearing …" p. 488).
            He also favored the British form of government over the American. "One hundred years ago
                    America conquered 
                        England
                     in an unequal struggle and this year she glories over it," Wilson wrote in his
                    diary July 4, 1876. "How much happier [?I she would be now if she had 
                        England
                    's form of government instead of the miserable delusion of a
                    republic… . I venture to say that the country will never celebrate another centennial as
                    a republic. The English form of government is the only true one" (pp. 148-49). And he was
                    critical of universal suffrage. "Universal suffrage is at the foundation of every evil in
                    this country," Wilson stated in his diary on June 19, 1876 (p. 143), and he refused to
                    defend universal suffrage in a debate at 
                        Princeton
                    . His father thought he was "perfectly right" not to enter the debate,
                    and his mother was sorry they had chosen a question "that made it impossible" for
                    him to do so (pp. 479-80).
            The editors have set very high standards for the remaining volumes, and they are to be praised for
                    the great contribution they are making.
            University of Notre Dame
            Vincent P. De Santis
         
         
            
               Yankee Rebel: The Civil War Journal of Edmund DeWitt Patterson Edited with an
                    introduction by John G. Barrett. Biographical essay by Edmund Brooks Patterson. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xix, 207. End Papers, frontispiece, notes. $6.00.)
            In the spring of 1861, Edmund DeWitt Patterson, a handsome and well-educated young man of nineteen
                    from 
                        Ohio
                    , was working as a clerk at Waterloo in northern 
                        Alabama
                    , where he had lived for two  years. Behind him were
                    solid New 
                        England
                     classical learning and short terms of indifferent success in book selling and school
                    teaching. Ahead were four years of war, followed by a successful career as lawyer and judge in
                    Savannah, 
                        Tennessee
                    . As the testament of a youth well-endowed, somewhat lucky, and entirely devoted to his
                    southern friends and his adopted southern home, Patterson's war journal is an arresting
                    personal document.
            As source material for the history of the war, the journal has limited but definite value. Patterson
                    was at 
                        Williamsburg
                    , Seven Pines, Seven Days, 
                        Fredericksburg
                    , and 
                        Gettysburg
                     where he was captured. Beginning as fourth corporal in the Ninth 
                        Alabama
                     Infantry, he was elected lieutenant. He was severely wounded in a suicidal charge at
                    Frayser's Farm (June, 1862); recovered from ghastly, primitive surgery; enjoyed the
                    nursing of an heroic 
                        Richmond
                     woman; and returned to experience the "terrible beauty" of the
                    bombardment of 
                        Fredericksburg
                    . He suffered the boredom of a winter's picket duty relieved by such
                    unmilitary activities as snowball fights, fraternization with Union pickets, and homesickness. At
                    the Federal prison for Confederate officers on Johnson's Island in Lake
                    Erie, he spent more than a year trying to follow the war through rumor and contradictory
                    dispatches, and waiting to get back to his men.
            In the story of the war, however, Patterson illuminates no dark spots, draws no curtains aside. A
                    clue to the most impressive aspect of the journal is the fact that after the war and for as long as
                    he lived, Patterson never thought of publishing it and never took any interest in
                    veterans' affairs. On Johnson's Island he seems to have learned that the most
                    important thing about the journal was the feeling of personal awareness and growth that came with
                    its composition. Not that any great original genius is in evidence, although the rhetoric is
                    strikingly "literary," complete with quotations from Homer and Shakespeare and
                    even a burst of original poetry to celebrate leaving the Federal prison. The descriptions of battle
                    and bloody death have a high-pitched, romantic excitement that is most disturbing taken out of
                    context, but is balanced by a similar intensity in descriptions of bitter sorrow and disillusionment
                    over the horror of war. Wit, contemplation, and frustrated puzzlement are also here. Some scenes
                    have a poignancy that seems artificial, like that of a cheap novel- Patterson's head held
                    in the lap of a very young Union boy-soldier through a night of fear and pain, for example; or
                    Patterson in prison, lonely and hungry, only a few miles from where his Union family lived in safety
                    and comfort. But in spite of the schoolboy rhetoric and the atmosphere of fact sliding into fiction,
                    the journal rings true and Patterson gains the reader's respect, not only for being true
                    to a very worthwhile self, but for apparently recognizing that this self was outgrown in the heat of
                    war and in the process of writing the journal. As an adult Patterson seems to have been largely
                    silent on the war and the "Lost Cause." One can only hope that one hundred years
                    has been long enough to wait, for such silence deserves respect.
            
            Unless breaking the silence is deemed in itself disrespectful, this edition is reliable and in good
                    taste. Barrett's notes are all the help needed by anyone with the sketchiest knowledge of
                    the Civil War, and the essay by Patterson's grandson, Edmund Brooks Patterson, is very
                    helpful in putting the journal in focus.
            
                    
                  
                            Wabash
                         College
                
            Walter L. Fertig
         
         
            
               A Room for the Night: Hotels of the Old West. By Richard A. Van Orman. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1966. Pp. xiii, 162. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $4.95.)
            
               
                        Van
                     Orman's book is one of a growing company that sees the history of the West
                    as something other than saddle leather and war paint. After all, most of everyone's time
                    in the Old West, as elsewhere, was concerned with the ordinary business of living, and a large part
                    of this was aimed at putting food on the table and a roof over one's head. For the part
                    of western life that involved people on the move—and it was a goodly
                    part—-inns and hotels were of considerable importance in the matter of locating the
                    night's bed and board. A Room for the Night tells the story of how this
                    need was satisfied.
            The book is based mainly upon printed sources, mostly books of traveler's recollections.
                    The notes contain only four citations from manuscript collections, six from contemporary newspapers,
                    and two from actual hotel registers. Of the numerous traveler's accounts used, a large
                    proportion are those of foreigners, chiefly British. Since tourists, whether foreigners or
                    easterners, would tend to remember and write about the most vivid episodes in their journeys, the
                    use of many such sources probably explains the emphasis in the book on the bizarre and the extreme.
            Most of the book is organized around the device of recapitulating topics region by region. This might
                    have made for repetitiousness were it not for a stream of sprightly anecdotes which lend variety to
                    the narrative. The style is clear and readable; and the last chapters, on hotel men and employees,
                    hotel meals, and hotel life contain some delightful vignettes.
            While providing an entertaining survey of an interesting aspect of western social history, there are
                    one or two caveats about the book as history that should be mentioned. Much of what it implies to be
                    western could as easily be identified with other sections of America in similar stages of
                    development. The generalizations on western hospitality, for example, could as well hold for the Old
                    South, the Middle West, and elsewhere, and appear to reflect more a part of general rural American
                    values than something uniquely western. Moreover, the generalizations on the place of the hotel in
                    western history are rather sweeping. While these hotels undoubtedly had unique features, the author
                    seems to overstate the case when he says, "The history of the West would be incomplete
                    without the dimension given to it by the Western hotel" (p. 139). Dimension implies
                    something  basic—as the length, width, and breadth
                    that enclose space; an historical dimension by analogy ought to be equally basic. To see hotels as
                    basic in this sense to western history is to force the point. Embellishment, yes; dimension, hardly.
            This book would have been strengthened by giving more attention to the economics of the business in
                    the West, for instance, to the pursuit of the interesting suggestion that hotel building as well as
                    railroad promoting helped bankrupt many western communities.
            In sum, this is a pleasant, diverting book about a little-known side of western history. Its
                    greatest. appeal will be to buffs and any others having a general interest in the western scene.
            
                    Indiana University, Northwest Campus
                
            William M. Neil
         
         
            
               This Almost Chosen People: Essays in the History of American Ideas. By Russel B.
                    Nye. ([East Lansing]: 
                        Michigan
                     State University Press, 1966. Pp. x, 374. Index. $7.60.)
            
               This Almost Chosen People consists of seven unrelated essays on ideas that
                    "have given an ideological backbone to American thought and activity" (p. ix). The
                    author has attempted "to sketch out some of the changes these basic cultural
                    presuppositions have undergone from their beginnings to the present" (p. ix). In a truly
                    impressive display of erudition accompanied by extremely helpful bibliographies the ideas pass in
                    review before the reader. Out of many themes or concepts the author chose to examine the idea of
                    progress, the American view of nationalism, the tradition of free enterprise, the sense of mission,
                    the place of the individual, the view of nature, and the idea of equality. For the sake of brevity
                    this reviewer has been inconsistent in condensing the titles of the essays, but he has only followed
                    the example of the author who felt obliged to entitle Chapter V "America and the
                    Individual" instead of "The American View of Individualism."
            Unless one is a Curti or a Persons, he will find it difficult to comment meaningfully on the broad
                    panorama of ideas and on the sources upon which the discussions are based. In a general way the
                    author seems to be on surer ground in discussing the earlier expressions of the ideas. This seems to
                    be an entirely reasonable result of his scholarly studies of the cultural history of the late
                    eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. Again he seems to be more at home with the literary
                    exponents of the ideas than with the business men and politicans who sometimes adopted them. Clearly
                    the essayist was confronted with a monumental task of compression, synthesis, and generalization.
                    Inevitably he exposes himself to the criticism of the specialist who has a particular interest in
                    one of the ideas. This reviewer is inclined to the belief that the influence of the frontier has
                    been overemphasized particularly with respect to the idea of individualism. He would suggest that
                    since attention is paid to Charles A. Beard's The Myth of Rugged
                        Individualism some mention should have been made of Mody C. Boatright's The Myth of Frontier Individualism. On a related topic the reviewer recalls that
                    there was a fairly strong conservation  movement in the
                    1850's when the use of charcoal threatened the timber resources of certain eastern
                    states.
            But a more basic question needs to be raised. This concerns the validity of literary, forensic, and
                    journalistic expressions of ideas as indicators of "American" sentiments. Even
                    granting the superb accomplishment of the author in fulfilling his purpose, for whom were the
                    relatively small group of persons speaking? Judging from the index entries 
                        Franklin
                    , Emerson, Jefferson, Lincoln, Whitman, Wilson, Theodore and 
                        Franklin
                     Roosevelt, and Kennedy were among the most articulate transmitters of American ideas.
                    Even if this list were expanded tenfold, would it be representative and extensive enough to form the
                    foundation for valid generalizations? For one thing there is an assumption of broad
                    circulation of the ideas and general literacy on the part of the public.
            The inclusion of an errata list is of dubious value. It suggests that eight errors are all that
                    appear in the book. This is not quite the case. The metamorphosis of John O'Sullivan into
                    John L. Sullivan is not listed, and it is not quite accurate to say that the Fourteenth and
                    Fifteenth amendments placed "these rights" (the referrent of these is not entirely
                    clear) immediately "under national jurisdiction." But even ten instances of
                    misspelling or slight errors of fact do not lessen the value of the book as an excellent source of
                    information for the general reader, a stimulating piece of collateral reading in a general course,
                    or perchance the principal basis for a more specialized venture into the history of American ideas.
            
                    University of 
                            Kansas
                        
               
                
            George L. Anderson
         
         
            
               Labor and Liberty: The La Follette Committee and the New Deal. By Jerold S.
                    Auerbach. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Inc., 1966. Pp. xi, 246. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.60.)
            Auerbach's monograph is a study of the so-called La Follette Civil Liberties Committee
                    (1936-1940). Despite its name, the focus of the committee's investigations was upon
                    employer interference with the right of workers to organize and bargain collectively. Several
                    interrelated factors were responsible for this emphasis. The inspiration for the establishment of
                    the committee came from National Labor Relations Board officials, who found their hands tied by
                    court challenges to the constitutionality of the Wagner Act and hoped that the exposure of employer
                    anti-union activities would rally public opinion behind the NLRB. The pro-union bias of the
                    committee's staff-many of whom were Communist party members or
                    sympathizers—was reflected in the committee's acceptance, and propagandizing,
                    of the class warfare theme. And the coincidence in time of the most active phase of the
                    committee's work with the CIO's bid to organize the mass production industries
                    resulted in the committee's becoming an adjunct of the CIO's organizing drive.
            Auerbach reviews in detail the evidence uncovered by the committee of employer union-busting
                    activities: the use of labor spies, strikebreakers, company police, and munitions. He concludes that
                    despite  its lack of substantive legislative achievements, the
                    committee exerted significant influence. It helped to create a climate of opinion favorable to the
                    Wagner Act and the NLRB. It materially assisted the CIO in its drive to organize the steel, coal,
                    and automobile industries. Most importantly, it played a crucial role in the transformation of the
                    civil libertarian credo. Before the New Deal, Auerbach writes, "Civil libertarians remained
                    inveterate worshipers at the shrine of Thomas Jefferson and adhered to a tradition that measured
                    individual liberty by government abstinence" (p. 24). At the same time most had a deep
                    commitment to labor unionism. Thus they were faced with a dilemma when the federal government
                    stepped in as the protector of labor's right to organize. Thanks in large part to the La
                    Follette Committee, the author contends, civil libertarians abandoned their traditional antipathy to
                    federal power. "The La Follette Committee's findings foreshadowed a new civil
                    libertarian formula: Federal power, so long the source of libertarian fears, might be needed to
                    counteract local, and private, power, which in fact … often acted as the final arbiter of
                    the Bill of Rights" (p. 138).
            Auerbach has done thorough research in manuscript collections, government documents, and contemporary
                    newspaper and magazine accounts. The footnotes are where they should be—at the bottom of
                    the page. His prose is fluent, though not scintillating. At times, the reader suspects padding; the
                    heart of his argument was set forth in his article in the December, 1964, issue of the Journal of American History.
            
            Although not uncritical of some aspects of the committee's activities Auerbach is on the
                    whole sympathetic. Too much so, this reader would suggest. Thus he excuses the
                    committee's failure to deal with the intimidation of nonunion employees by union members
                    and strikers on the ground of labor's underdog position. The moral dilemma implicit in
                    this argument disturbed a minority in the American Civil Liberties Union at the time, and their
                    strictures against such a double standard is no less pertinent today. Second, the La Follette
                    Committee represented a major step in the transformation of congressional investigations into
                    fishing expeditions for publicity. Not suprisingly, the Dies Un-American Activities Committee was
                    the conservative reaction. Even more dangerous—to this reader's thinking at
                    least—was the abandonment by too many libertarians of their suspicion of the too powerful
                    state. Recent evidence abounds that the welfare state is not an unmixed blessing so far as
                    individual rights and liberties are concerned.
            
                    University of 
                            Nebraska
                        
               
                
            John Braeman
         
         
            
               The American Legion Story. By Raymond Moley, Jr. Foreward by J. Edgar Hoover. (
                        New York
                    : Duell, Sloan and Pearce, 1966. Pp. xv, 443. Illustrations, appendix, index.
                    $6.95.)
            In this history of the American Legion, Raymond Moley, Jr., has made a considerable effort at doing
                    the impossible. This is a kind of history difficult to do well. In the first place it is easy for a
                    history of an organization to become tedious and dull. More important is the  greater difficulty of preparing a satisfactory history of an
                    organization which is so large, which has touched the lives of such a considerable part of the
                    nation's population, and which often has been at the center of controversies which have
                    divided large segments of the population. But on the whole, Moley has done well. This is not to say
                    that the book is not a friendly or a partisan account, for it is—whether from a personal
                    preference for the positions which the legion has taken, or from the natural sympathy of a
                    biographer who, coming to know and understand his subject, comes to be altogether forgiving.
            Readers having any personal interest in the legion, or in twentieth-century 
                        United States
                     history, will be attracted by the accounts of its founding. Indiana readers will be
                    especially interested in the contest which made 
                        Indianapolis
                     the national headquarters.
            In its origins the legion developed a policy of non-partisanship. It would learn to fight and lobby
                    for causes and might show voting records of legislators, but it would avoid endorsing parties or
                    candidates and thus avoid the kind of political affiliation which came to be associated with the
                    Grand Army of the Republic in its "bloody shirt" campaigns.
            A good deal of study and hard work have gone into the promotion of the legion's views.
                    Through the years it has advocated military preparedness, including an adequate navy, an independent
                    air force, and an army based upon universal military training rather than a large standing army; but
                    it also has been an advocate of peace. In foreign policy it was friendly toward the League of
                    Nations, favored membership in the World Court (at least for a time), and favored the United Nations
                    (but not the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization or the International
                    Labor Organization). It probably was ahead of the rest of the country in abandoning its isolationist
                    position in 1940. Later the legion favored the Marshall Plan, the North Atlantic Treaty, and foreign
                    military assistance. But then, curiously, it called for the resignation of one of the men chiefly
                    responsible for those landmarks in postwar foreign policy, Dean Acheson. Moreover, the book adds
                    another page to the Yalta myth of unpardonable concessions to the Russians.
            One of the most controversial aspects of the legion's public career has been in connection
                    with its attitude toward subversion. In this connection it is noted that the legion was determined
                    not to become involved in vigilante activities, and it had no major part in the "Red
                    Scare" of 1919-1920. But later the legion discredits the State Department as being infested
                    with communists and traitors, sharing with many others the exaggeration of suspicion based upon the
                    established revelations of the Alger Hiss case. Very curiously, however, the name of Joe McCarthy
                    and his assault upon the army is not even mentioned.
            As the author says at the outset, "The Legion's story is a human story, an
                    integral part of any full account or appraisal of our country's progress in the twentieth
                    century" (p. 3).
            
                    The National War College
                
            James A. Huston
         
         
         
            Awards of Merit and Certificates of Commendation from AASLH
            The American Association for State and Local History invites nominations for Awards of Merit or
                    Certificates of Commendation for 1967. The statement below indicates the basis for these Awards and
                    Certificates.
            All nominations must be made on the "Awards Nomination Form" and postmarked by not later than June 23, 1967. Each nominator must include a supporting
                    letter which is explicit in indicating why the Award or Certificate seems merited. Each nominator is
                    also responsible for making certain that at least two or three other persons send similar statements
                        directly to the undersigned. Finally, each nominator should send relevant
                    supporting material such as pamphlets, newspaper clippings, programs, scripts, books, etc.
            The Indiana competition for Awards and Certificates will doubtless be keen for 1967. Hence,
                    nominations cannot automatically be approved even though they indicate worthy achievements. Such
                    achievements should be varied, continuing, and quite significant. The views and evaluations of a
                    number of persons will be obtained regarding the nominations received.
            
               1. Certificate of Commendation. The Certificate of Commendation is given for
                        outstanding achievement by an individual or an organization in the field of state, provincial,
                        and local history, but with that achievement judged in the light of local limiting circumstances
                        rather than on a basis of over-all excellence in the 
                            United States
                         and 
                            Canada
                         as a whole. This is an award of encouragement and commendation to a person or group
                        which by great effort has accomplished something that is really outstanding within its own area.
                        It matters not that the accomplishment is less than the achievements of similar groups in
                        wealthier or more sophisticated areas of the country. The Certificate is a pat on the back, and
                        says to the individual or organization that receives it: "We think you are doing a
                        wonderful job in your area, and we want to recognize you for it."
               2. The Award of Merit. This was the original award of the Association and is
                        still the backbone of the Association's award competition. It is given for excellence
                        of accomplishment  or program in the field of state,
                        provincial, and local history, and is in no way judged relative to local limiting circumstances.
                        The giving of the Award of Merit is the same as saying to everyone: "This is public
                        acknowledgement by the American Association for State and Local History that this accomplishment
                        or this program, in comparison with all similar accomplishments and programs in North America,
                        deserves the adjective excellent." In using the term "excellent" we
                        do not employ it in the archaic sense of excelling all others, but in the modern sense of
                        extremely good, first class, of great inherent worth. This distinction is important because it
                        should be clearly understood that an award to one organization for a particular kind of program
                        does not bar another organization from receiving an award for a similar program, if both
                        programs are indeed excellent.
            
            It should also be clearly understood that a nominee rejected for an Award of Merit will not
                    necessarily be given a Certificate of Commendation. It is not the intention of the Committee on
                    Awards that the Certificate of Commendation will become a runner-up prize for those who failed to
                    receive the Award of Merit. The two awards are designed to accomplish different purposes.
            As chairman for nominations from Indiana for 1967, the undersigned has nomination forms which are
                    available upon request.
            Donald F. Carmony Library 48 Indiana University Bloomington, Indiana
                47401
         
         
         
            Henry F. Schricker Library
            During 1966, with former Governor and Mrs. Henry F. Schricker in attendance, the Edgewood High School
                    Library at Ellettsville was dedicated as the Henry F. Schricker Library. In naming this school
                    library after Governor Schricker, Ellettsville citizens gave merited recognition to the only Hoosier
                    who has served two full terms as governor since the Constitution of 1851 was adopted. They also
                    indicated their affection for and appreciation of the many visits and long-time participation of the
                    Schrickers in Ellettsville's annual fall festival.
            The librarian of the Henry F. Schricker Library, Miss Frances Harding, is eager to develop and
                    preserve a collection of books, phamphlets, magazines, and the like concerning Indiana history from
                    the early days to the present. Individuals having items which they are willing to donate to such a
                    collection should write Miss Harding and indicate the type of material available for possible
                    library acquisition. She is particularly eager to complete the library's file of the Indiana Magazine of History. For this purpose copies of volumes 3, 31-35, 37-39,
                    41, 47-57 are needed.
         
      
   
