
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 41, Issue 2, pages 107-218. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:41+issue:2+year:1945&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Great Awakening
            A Chapter in the Educational History of Indiana 1
            
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
            The first state constitution of Indiana included a passage in which it was affirmed that
                    "knowledge and learning generally diffused, through a community," are
                    "essential to the preservation of a free government." A more definite provision
                    declared: 
                        It shall be the duty of the General Assembly as soon as circumstances shall permit, to
                            provide, by law, for a general system of education, ascending in a regular gradation, from
                            township schools to a state university, wherein tuition shall be gratis, and equally open to
                            all.
                    
                
            Any intelligent young Hoosier of today who is in the process of being educated in the vast and
                    complex school system of his state would naturally suppose, when examining the constitution of 1816
                    for the first time, that public schools were established very soon after the admission of Indiana to
                    the Union. In this very natural assumption, he would be sadly mistaken. For long years, the fine
                    phrases relative to education in the old constitution of 1816 were only noticed by political
                    leaders, legislators, and men of property when delivering public speeches. Worse than this, perhaps,
                    was the inertia of the majority of the people in regard to the serious educational conditions and
                    the lack of effective legislation to remedy them.
            The unconcern in regard to providing public schools through taxation continued for more than a
                    generation, while Indiana grew in population, in wealth and in political importance among the states
                    of the nation. After the taking of the census of 1850, Indiana found herself to be seventh 
                  
                     1 This paper was read before the annual dinner meeting of the 
                                Tippecanoe County
                             Historical Association on the evening of November 15, 1944.
               
                     among the states in population. In the number of
                    representatives in the national house and in the number of presidential electors, the state was tied
                    with 
                        Massachusetts
                     and surpassed by only four states–
                  New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio
               , and 
                        Virginia
                    .2 By 1850, therefore, Indiana had become an important state
                    politically, certainly not to be ignored by the national party leaders. With her accumulated and
                    increasing wealth, the Hoosier state was well able to levy and collect sufficient taxes to
                    inaugurate a system of free, public schools. That public education was not provided before the
                    middle of the century was due to the lack of effective leadership, to the general lassitude and to
                    the determined opposition of powerful elements–not to the absence of means.
            It is a sad fact that, in spite of the clauses in favor of public education embodied in the
                    constitution of 1816, a view was widely held or accepted in Indiana that education was not for the
                    masses. This was accompanied by the belief that good men were more to be desired than educated men
                    and the further notion that schooling would unfit people for manual labor. Whether the people were
                    really converted to these ideas or not, there is no doubt that there existed an intense and bitter
                    opposition among various elements of Indiana to the early efforts to establish public schools. It
                    was reported by a prominent educational leader in 1876, that a "member of the Legislature,
                    in 1837, closed his … speech in these words: "When I die, I want my epitaph
                    written, "Here lies an enemy to free schools."" "3 In the year 1848, one of the counties of central Indiana, voting on the question of
                    whether to establish free schools or not, in a total vote for the county of 2,955, cast fewer than
                    seven hundred affirmative votes.4 Colonel Richard W. Thompson of 
                        Terre Haute
                     in an educational address made on January 5, 1870, in that city, declared that, before
                    1850, no candidate for a seat in the legislature of Indiana could be elected if 
                  
                     2 The population of 
                                Tennessee
                             by the census of 1850 was larger than that of Indiana, but, owing to the number
                            of slaves of whom three-fifths were counted, 
                                Tennessee
                             was allotted ten members of the lower house of Congress to eleven for-Indiana. 
                                Massachusetts
                             exceeded Indiana slightly in population in 1850, but the excess was not
                            sufficient to entitle her to a twelfth representative.
                  
                     3 John M. Olcott, "History of Public Schools in
                            Indiana," Indiana School Journal (45 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1856-1900), XXI (1876), 298.
                  
                     4 See Richard G. Boone, A History of Education in
                            Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1892), 106, for table showing the votes by counties in the free schools
                            referendum of 1848.
               
                     he was known to favor the levying of taxes to support public
                        schools.5
            
            During the years from 1846 to 1852, Professor Caleb Mills of 
                        Wabash
                     College wrote a series of six "Messages" designed to produce an
                    active effort to raise the deplorable educational level that prevailed in Indiana. He kept his name
                    a secret, adding to each "Message" the signature "One of the
                    People." These "Messages" were prepared and delivered to legislators at
                    the opening of each of five sessions and to the members of the constitutional convention of
                    1850-1851. The "Messages" exerted quite an influence on senators, representatives,
                    constitution makers, and educational leaders and teachers who were special advocates of a public
                    school system. The agitation stimulated by the "Messages" was to become more
                    effective and contagious as the years passed. Professor Mills not only gave practical plans for
                    organizing a school system but he argued for his plans and presented facts to shame the state to
                        action.6 The legislature provided for a referendum on the question of free
                    schools in 1848. In a total vote of 140,410, there was a majority of 16,636 in favor of free
                    schools. The citizens were not voting for or against elementary education, but on the question
                    whether elementary education should be provided through public taxation or whether the people should
                    be content with what was being furnished by denominational or private schools.7
            
            Another outcome of the agitation was the school law of 1849, which was submitted to a popular
                    referendum despite the fact that the people had just voted in favor of free schools. The law of 1849
                    seems crude enough now, but there was provision for a minimum school term of three months, and, for
                    the first time, restricted taxation by local units was authorized for the support of schools. The
                    total vote in the popular referendum of 1849 was slightly larger than that cast in the free schools
                    referendum of the preceding year, and the majority in favor of the law slightly less than the
                    majority 
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, January 6, 1870.
                  
                     6 For reprints of the "Messages" of Professor Mills,
                            see Charles W. Moores (ed.), Caleb Mills and the Indiana Public School
                            System, Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1897-), III (1905), 363-638.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 528-531; 
                                Boone
                            , A History of Education in Indiana, 106-107.
               
                     in favor of free schools.8 A provision of
                    the law of 1849 excused counties voting negatively from adhering to its requirements. Any such
                    county could vote again in any later year during the continuance of the law. Several counties never
                    approved it and therefore were subject only to previously enacted school laws until later
                    legislation superseded them.
            The new constitution which was framed in 1850-1851 and ratified in August of 1851, included
                    provisions relative to education that were very similar to those of the first constitution. The
                    greater part of Article VIII, which deals with "Education," is made up of sections
                    devoted to the Common School Fund, but the first section states that it shall be the duty of the
                    General Assembly "to provide by law for a general and uniform system of common schools,
                    wherein tuition shall be without charge, and equally open to all." The last or eighth
                    section of the article on education relates to the establishment by law of the office of State
                    Superintendent of Public Instruction. In 1852 the General Assembly passed breath-taking school
                    legislation. The laws passed provided for taxation by local units to pay for the erection of
                    buildings, for equipping them, and for supplementing the funds distributed by the state for tuition
                    purposes. In accordance with the mandatory provision of the new constitution, the legislature set up
                    the office of State Superintendent of Public Instruction, and also created the first State Board of
                    Education which was not required by the constitution. The new school legislation became effective in
                    1853. The first State Superintendent, Professor William C. Larabee of Indiana Asbury (DePauw)
                    University, was elected in 1852 and took office in the same year. The State Board was at first made
                    up entirely of state officials, all ex officio members.9
            
            Beginning in 1853, new taxes were levied, new school-houses were erected and more teachers employed.
                    In 1852 cities and incorporated towns were separated from the new civil townships in which they were
                    located, thus becoming 
                  
                     8 Moores (ed.), Caleb Mills and the Indiana Public School
                                System, Indiana Historical Society Publications, III, 539-541; 
                                Boone
                            , A History of Education in Indiana, 124-126.
                  
                     9 It consisted of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, the
                            Governor, the Secretary of State, State Treasurer, and State Auditor. The Attorney General
                            was added in 1855. Clearly this Board was not swamped with educators. Its functions were
                            relatively unimportant until after reorganization under a law of 1865.
               
                     independent units. These, like the townships, took on new life
                    in 1852. In 1854, however, the state Supreme Court held that section of the law of 1852 which
                    permitted township authorities to levy taxes for the purpose of "continuing their
                    schools" after state funds should be expended to be unconstitutional. This decision left
                    the townships, in regard to the expense of tuition, with only the funds apportioned by the state
                    which were very inadequate. Cities and incorporated towns escaped the demoralizing effects of this
                    decision. Not satisfied with their good fortune, these units asked for and obtained a law in 1855
                    granting more generous taxing powers. This law met the same fate at the hands of the Supreme Court
                    in 1857 as had the section of the law of 1852 pertaining to taxation by townships.10 As a result of the court decisions of 1854 and 1857, the promising movement in the
                    direction of the creation of a public school system was all but paralyzed for a decade.
            As late as 1850, while served by a number of denominational and numerous private schools, Indiana was
                    classified as twenty-third among the states in illiteracy.11 There were then
                    thirty-one states in the Union. It did not go lower. As one educator said in 1876, when looking back
                    to 1850: "But then, as a state, we had touched bottom. Indiana has been
                    rising ever since."12 It is easy to understand the discouragement 
                  
                     10
                            
                                Greencastle
                             Township v. Black, 5 Indiana(1854),
                            563-565, 571-573; The City of 
                                Lafayette
                             and Martin, County Treasurer v. Jenners, 10 Indiana(1857), 76.
                  
                     11 In the last of his six "Messages," Caleb Mills
                            wrote in 1852 concerning the rank of Indiana: "Her literary zero, or general
                            average of adult ignorance in 1840, was one-seventh, which placed her
                            sixteenth in the scale of the twenty-six states, but 1850 witnessed a deplorable
                            retrocession to the rank of twenty-third, lower than all the slave States
                            in that list [thirty-one states in 1850] but three. As an old inhabitant
                            of the eighth State in this Union in point of population, I am ashamed of
                            the picture and blush to think it true, or rather only an approximation to the reality, for
                            it is very evident that there are thousands so near the confines of twilight that it would
                            hardly be true to say that they had ever seen the sun of science. Most gladly would I draw
                            the veil over its frightful features, but the truth should be known and the remedy, speedy
                            and efficient, should be devised and receive the sanction of a law before you [members of
                            the legislature] return to a constituency, whose educational necessities draw so largely on
                            our sympathies, as patriots, philanthropists and Christians." Moores (ed.), Caleb Mills and the Indiana Public School System, Indiana Historical
                            Society Publications, III, 583-584.
                  
                     12 Olcott, "History of Public Schools in Indiana,"
                                Indiana School Journal,XXI, 300. Olcott reported the reaction of a 
                                Quaker
                             of 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, by the name of Hinkle, one of the many city teachers of the state
                            sadly affected by the decision of 1857. The judges based their opinion on the language of
                            the new state constitution,
               
                     that followed the court decisions of 1854 and 1857. The main
                    effect of the years of gloom that followed 1857 were, nevertheless, to deepen the demand for
                    education and to strengthen the determination of the friends of a free, public school systm.13 The forward movements in 
                  Ohio, Michigan
               , and 
                        Illinois
                     aroused deep unrest in the breasts of Hoosiers. Many communities refused to give up. In
                    the face of handicaps they kept up the struggle and made some progress.
            In the year 1867, the legislature became bold enough to restore to townships, incorporated towns and
                    cities the power to levy and collect taxes for the payment of wages to public schoolteachers. During
                    the years of enforced delay, school sentiment had increased and educational leaders were able to
                    persuade members of the General Assembly to make a new effort. Arguments were vigorously put forward
                    that a new law would probably not be contested, and, even should it be challenged, the Supreme Court
                    would not likely declare it void. It was in fact nearly a score of years before a case was devised
                    to test the validity of the act of 1867, and then the Supreme Court declared it to be
                    constitutional. The constitution had not been changed and the same point was at issue, but the
                    judges did not come to the same conclusions. This favorable court decision was rendered in 1885,
                    eighteen years after the passage of the contested law and thirty-one years after the adverse
                    decision of 1854. The case before the Supreme Court in 1885 was that of Robinson, Treasurer, v. Schenck. It was brought up from the circuit court of 
                        Switzerland County
                    , where an injunction was sought and granted in favor of the property owner who was the
                    complainant. The Supreme Court overruled the finding of the lower court which was based on the
                    contention laid down by the Supreme Court judges in 1854 and 1857 that taxes for tuition could be
                    levied only by the legislature. In 1885 the judges of the Supreme Court held that the section of the
                    state constitution commanding the legislature to "provide 
                  so Friend Hinkle searched the fundamental law for some clause that would permit teachers
                            to find relief. He reported this from Article I, Section 36: "Emigration from the
                            State shall not be prohibited." Hinkle left Indiana. Ibid.,
                            312-313.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 316. In a statement made on this page, Mr. Olcott reveals that
                            Hoosiers were stimulated to great exertions because they had permitted themselves to be
                            "left in the rear by more active sister states." This was in 1876 when
                            Indiana was so rapidly catching up. Shortly after Barnabas C. Hobbs had retired from the
                            office of State Superintendent on March 15, he wrote: "We must work while we
               
                     by law for a general and uniform system of common
                    schools" does not mean that all taxes must be directly levied by the state. In the earlier
                    decisions the judges had taken the stand that local units could levy and collect taxes to build
                    school-houses and buy equipment but not for tuition purposes. In 1885 the judges declared that it
                    was "not possible to make any distinction between the right to employ persons to impart
                    instruction to the pupils and the right to provide places where the instruction shall be
                        imparted."14 It should be remembered that this decision was hailed
                    with delight because it meant a work already largely performed would not be halted or destroyed.
            The great awakening had followed the passage of the law of 1867. In much of the state, the task of
                    creating free, public schools for all started at once. New school buildings were erected, teachers
                    hired, and more schools opened while the process of levying and collecting the taxes was going on.
                    By 1875 the number of schoolteachers in Indiana had trebled, school attendance had increased by a
                    quarter of a million, and teachers' wages from public funds by two and a half million
                    dollars. From 1875 to 1890, the movement for longer terms, more schools and better schools
                    continued. Struggling against very discouraging conditions from 1857 to 1867, the crusade that was
                    so well under way by 1870 gained such momentum that nothing could stop the people and their leaders.
                    In a score of years, the free, public school system of Indiana was created—a veritable
                    miracle accomplished.
            Prior to the awakening, secondary education was provided by academies, seminaries, and the
                    preparatory departments of higher institutions. Colleges frequently had more preparatory students
                    than students of college standing, and there were comparatively few of either rank. The vast
                    majority of the young persons of Indiana had no opportunity to obtain either secondary or college
                    instruction before 1870. They were fortunate indeed if they had access to elementary schools.
            Only about twenty-five Indiana high schools were started before 1870, all but five of them after
                    1860. Among the 
                  wait. Indiana is getting sadly behind her sister States. 
                                Illinois
                             is far in advance of us in her legislation, and in the efficiency of her school
                            system. 
                        Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa
                     , and even 
                                Kansas
                             are leaving us in the rear." Barnabas C. Hobbs,
                            "Superintendent's Valedictory," Indiana School
                                Journal, XVI (1871), 151.
                  
                     14 Robinson, Treasurer, v. Schenck, 102 Indiana(1885), 307-322.
               
                     twenty-five cities to organize high schools early were old
                    centers such as 
                        Madison
                    , 
                  New Albany, Vevay
               , and 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , along with growing interior cities like 
                  Indianapolis, Richmond, Terre Haute, Lafayette,
                            Logansport, Muncie, Marion, South
                        Bend
               , and 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .15 From 1869 to 1890 about a hundred additional high schools were
                        established.16 By the last-mentioned year, high school education was
                    accessible to the youth of cities and various incorporated towns, but hosts of children living in
                    rural areas were not yet included in the charmed circle. This was true not only of Indiana as pretty
                    much the same situation prevailed over large portions of the country. By 1890 many colleges had done
                    away with their preparatory schools or were in the process of liquidating them. Since there were
                    still numerous students without high school training, many private "normal
                    colleges" grew up and flourished, with low charges for board, room, and tuition. These made
                    little or no distinction between students who were of college status and those who were not. Many
                    teachers with few or no credits beyond the eighth grade flocked to these institutions, of which
                    Indiana had more than a few. Indeed, the speed limit was exceeded in regard to the setting up of
                    normal schools of this category in the state.
            It was at the beginning of the great awakening that the Indiana State Normal School of 
                        Terre Haute
                     and Purdue University of 
                        Lafayette
                     were founded. These two state institutions opened their doors just when there were, for
                    the first time in the history of Indiana, considerable numbers of young persons on hand for whom
                    college was possible. Not until this time, did conditions prevail that permitted more than a small
                    contingent of ambitious young people to go away from home to obtain an education. It was not only
                    the State Normal School and Purdue University that grew in the era of the awakening, but older
                    institutions of the state that had struggled along for decades with few students, limited means, and
                    small faculties likewise began to grow. Indiana University, summoned to exist by a law of 1820 as
                    the "Indiana Seminary," elevated to the rank of "Indiana 
                  
                     15
                            
                                Boone
                            , A History of Education in Indiana, 303.
                  
                     16 Harvey M. La Follette, Thirty-eighth Report of the
                                Superintendent of Public Instruction, … For the years ending July 31, 1889,
                                and July 31, 1890 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1890), 56-58. As of October 31, 1890, there were listed 107 commissioned high
                            schools. There were other high schools that offered courses that did not meet the
                            requirements for a commission from the State Board of Education.
               
                     College" in 1828, and given the title of
                    "Indiana University" in 1838, was a very small institution as late as 1870.17 Its period of real expansion began in the midst of the rapid development of
                    the free, public school system, that is, during the great awakening that marked the score of years
                    ending in 1890. Purdue University was not opened to students until 1874, but it became an
                    institution of importance by 1890. The interesting truth is, therefore, that Indiana University
                    experienced its first noticeable growth simultaneously with the State Normal School and Purdue
                    University. The fourth of Indiana's state supported educational institutions, Ball State
                    Teachers College, founded in 1918, became a large school so quickly that the annals of its youthful
                    struggles are brief enough to be almost negligible.
            With great obstacles to be surmounted, several Hoosier cities had laid the educational foundations on
                    which to build before 1870. Among these cities were 
                  Richmond, Evansville, Terre Haute, Indianapolis, Lafayette, Muncie
               ,
                    and 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Other cities had caught the spirit and were advancing or ready to take off. The
                    superintendents of these school systems had not obtained the extensive training required of city
                    superintendents today, but they were up with the best. Many of them were men who were able to take
                    advantage of the opportunities that came to them and no other class of the times outdistanced them
                    in the doing of work of high quality. They were prone to accompany their performance of
                    administrative duties with extensive reading and intensive thinking, especially in the field of
                    philosophy. In addition, they were tremendously interested in the problem of improving the teaching
                    done in their schools. The numbers of schools, teachers, and pupils multiplied so rapidly that the
                    supply of experienced teachers, who also possessed ability, was relatively small. The consequence
                    was that almost every city superintendent was of necessity a strong advocate of teacher training,
                    knowing well that most of his teachers needed both more knowledge and better methods. It is not
                    strange that the period of the awakening produced a crop of outstanding superintendents. For
                    superintendents as well as for teachers, there were more openings than there were 
                  
                     17 Students at Indiana University at the end of the year 1869-1870:
                            Law department, Seniors, 25; Juniors, 26; undergraduates, 216; normal department, 22; modern
                            languages, 52–total 341 minus 62 (counted twice) = 279. Of these 279
                            students, 28 were preparatory. The total enrollment was 40 higher than that of the preceding
                            year.
               
                     persons prepared to fill them. It was certainly an inspiring
                    time for superintendents and teachers because of promotions and new worthwhile work that needed to
                    be done.
            The first State Superintendent of Public Instruction in Indiana took office in October, 1852. Anyone
                    who is chosen to the office must become a candidate on a party ticket and submit to a popular
                    election. The term is one of two years, and to continue longer requires an additional nomination and
                    election for each term served. Nevertheless, quite a few able men have sought and obtained the
                    position. The second educator to fill the office was no other than Caleb Mills who was elected in
                    1854 and served but one term. Ten years later George W. Hoss was elected. Beginning with his term,
                    the office was filled for a period of eighteen consecutive years by a series of unusual men,
                    Professor Hoss being followed in succession by Barnabas C. Hobbs, Milton B. Hopkins, James H. Smart,
                    and John M. Bloss.
            Professor Hoss was re-elected but resigned before the end of his second term to become professor of
                    English literature at Indiana University. During the remainder of his career he vibrated between
                    Indiana and 
                        Kansas
                    . He went to 
                        Emporia
                     in 1871, where, as its first president, he organized the 
                        Kansas
                     State Normal School. After a little more than two years, he returned to Indiana
                    University as professor of English literature. In 1880 he again went to 
                        Kansas
                     to establish an educational journal at 
                        Topeka
                    , but soon accepted a position as professor of literature and oratory at Baker
                    University of 
                        Baldwin City
                    . Some years later, he established a school of oratory of his own at 
                        Wichita
                    , but when the Friends established a college in that city, he became a member of the
                    faculty. While vigorously carrying on his work as State Superintendent in Indiana Professor Hoss was
                    a valuable member of the board of trustees of the State Normal School which was not opened to
                    students until after he became a professor at Indiana University.18
            
            
               
                  18 The Indiana School Journal, XXIX (1884), carried a
                        series of biographical sketches of all the men who filled the office of State Superintendent of
                        Public Instruction from 1852 to 1884. These sketches were prepared by Hubert M. Skinner, who was
                        well qualified to write them and who had access to much valuable information.
                        These sketches have been used in the brief treatments of the state superintendents who served
                        from 1864 to 1883, included in the present paper. The author is indebted to the files of the Indiana School Journal for many scattered news items relating to these men,
                        and to biennial reports which they themselves issued while in office. George W. Hoss was born in 
                            Brown County
                        , 
                            Ohio
                        , on November 6, 1824. He died in 1906.
            
            
            Barnabas C. Hobbs left Earlham College of which he was the first president to become State
                    Superintendent in October, 1868. In this office, he performed with rare intelligence. He did his
                    preparatory work in the 
                        Washington County
                     Seminary which was conducted by John I. Morrison. He received his college training at 
                        Cincinnati
                     College, though he did not receive a degree because he omitted some required subjects.
                    After a varied experience as a teacher, he became principal of the Bloomingdale Academy in 
                        Parke County
                     where he remained until he went to Earlham. While at 
                        Bloomingdale
                    , he was a member of the board of trustees of the nascent State Normal School, and,
                    except for very brief intervals, he was a trustee for the remainder of his life. The Normal School
                    and Bloomingdale Academy were institutions in whose welfare he was deeply interested. He was an able
                    educator who was but fifty-six years of age when he retired from the State Superintendent's
                    office. It was unfortunate that he was not called to some post that would have required the use of
                    his high talents at that time. In regard to his services as State Superintendent, he said after
                    quitting the office: 
                        I have toiled by day and by night, traveled by mud wagon, rail car, and steam boat, and
                            sometimes on foot, to keep time with my programme. The State lays out a
                            grand field of labor for its superintendents, and expects no covetous man
                            to perform the work. I have done but little. I wish I could have done more. May God bless
                            the work in other hands.19
                  
                    
                
            Milton B. Hopkins came next into the office. Where or how this noble man obtained his education, no
                    one seemed to know, but he was a broad-minded educator with vision, courage, and ability. He
                    crusaded with great zeal for the new school system that was in process of becoming. Having somehow
                    acquired the tools needed by a learner, he used them persistently. His connection was with the
                    Christian Church. He became a preacher, but school work attracted 
                  Hubert M. Skinner, "Our Superintendents of Public Instruction, George Washington
                            Hoss, LL.D.," Indiana School Journal, XXIX, 295-300. For other
                            matter pertaining to Professor Hoss, see James A. Wood-burn, History of Indiana
                                University, 1820-1902 (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1940), 295-296.
                  
                     19 Hobbs, "Superintendent's Valedictory,"
                                Indiana School Journal, XVI, 152; Skinner, "Our
                            Superintendents of Public Instruction, Barnabas Coffin Hobbs, LL.D.," Indiana School Journal, XXIX, 349-357. Barnabas C. Hobbs was born in 1815 and died
                            in 1892.
               
                     him more strongly. After teaching for a number of years in 
                        Clinton
                     and 
                        Boone
                     counties, he started an academy at 
                        Ladoga
                     in 
                        Montgomery County
                     which he conducted for six years. In the summer of 1870, he moved to 
                        Kokomo
                     where he labored to establish a college. It was in this year that he was elected State
                    Superintendent, assuming his duties on March 15, 1871. He was elected a second time in 1872. After
                    he had taken charge of his office and surveyed the field, he felt that he had undertaken a big task
                    but he did not falter. His salutatory message from which the following passage is taken was
                    inspiring: 
                        But the unction of the oath is upon me. I must and will, by your [friends of free, public
                            schools] aid, perform my duty to the best of my ability. I can do no more. I have been long
                            identified with you in the work of education. The cause of free schools has grown with my
                            growth and strengthened with my strength. It blessed me in my youth, and in my poverty. It
                            is blessing my children more literally now. I owe it both gratitude and labor, and I pledge
                            myself to you that I will leave no stone unturned to promote its growth.20
                  
                    
                
            He kept his promise, aroused school officials and county officers and urged each one in the state to
                    do his part, saying, "I cannot tread the wine press alone." He especially sought
                    the cooperation of teachers. He worked in season and out and died prematurely at the age of
                    fifty-three because he felt that he could not stop when he was temporarily too ill to perform an
                    arduous duty. With such a man leading a cause that was aided by many favoring conditions, progress
                    was bound to be made during the early seventies. He labored successfully to have the county
                    examiners made county superintendents and used them effectively to further his plans.21
            
            James H. Smart was elected State Superintendent in 1874, and was twice re-elected, serving from
                    March, 1875, to March, 1881. He was born in 
                        New Hampshire
                     in 1841, and came to 
                        Toledo
                     at the age of twenty-one, a graduate of Dartmouth College. With a brief teaching
                    experience in 
                        New Hampshire
                    , he worked for two years in the 
                        Toledo
                    
                    
                  
                     20 Milton B. Hopkins, "Salutatory," Indiana School Journal, XVI, 192.
                  
                     21 Skinner, "Our Superintendents of Public Instruction,
                            Milton Bledsoe Hopkins," Indiana School Journal, XXIX, 405-408.
                            Milton B. Hopkins was born in 
                                Nicholas County
                            , 
                                Kentucky
                            , April 4, 1821, and died on August 16, 1874, at 
                                Kokomo
                            . A son, Alexander Campbell Hopkins, succeeded him by appointment and served as
                            State Superintendent until March 15, 1875.
               
                     schools, and then accepted the superintendency of the schools
                    of the growing city of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana. He was a restless, determined man who gave lectures far and wide in the cause
                    of education while devoting ten years of his life to the upbuilding of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     schools. Only two cities in the state could boast more children of school age, and this
                    situation made Superintendent Smart a member of the State Board of Education. When he became State
                    Superintendent in 1875, at thirty-four years of age, he was a well-known, active educational leader
                    with much influence.
            So many things were already under way in the building of Indiana's free, public school
                    system that the conditions prevailing from 1875 to 1881 greatly favored the work of James H. Smart.
                    By just swimming with the current, he would have been sure to receive much credit for the progress
                    that was being made. He was not a man to be satisfied with such a course and found new work to
                    perform. His efforts in connection with the state's educational exhibit prepared for the
                    Centennial Exposition at 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1876 did much to elevate lowly Indiana to a higher place in the estimation of
                    thoughtful people everywhere. As to what had been accomplished, he was by no means satisfied. In
                    1880 he boldly pointed out defects in the new educational system and the legislation under which it
                    was operating. He stressed the serious defects, called attention to some that were less serious and
                    recommended a few important modifications. A few of the changes that were urgently needed could be
                    made by the legislature and others by changes in the administrative machinery. Only one, that
                    relative to lengthening the term of the State Superintendent, required a constitutional amendment.
                    Sadly enough, two defects that he emphasized, the choice of the State Superintendent every two years
                    in a party contest and the selection of county superintendents by township trustees have not yet
                    been remedied.
            Before the close of his third term, Mr. Smart was made president of the National Educational
                    Association, which gave him a chance to win further renown. He then became, for a brief period, a
                    representative of a company that published textbooks, a fate that awaited every successful educator
                    without a job. It was not long until the greatest opportunity of his life came to him when he was
                    made president of Purdue University in 1883. As head of this institution,  for seventeen years, he was to perform a great work which alone was
                    sufficient to make him one of the important educational leaders of the Middle West in his day.22
            
            John M. Bloss became State Superintendent on March 15, 1881, and served one term. He was a wholesome,
                    honest, forceful man, who commanded general respect and received excellent support. Born in 1839 in 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana, he was graduated from 
                        Hanover
                     College in 1860, and began to teach at 
                        Livonia
                     in the same year. He served as a soldier in the Civil War, rising to the rank of
                    captain. He left the service after the fall of 
                        Atlanta
                     because of ill health. He returned to college for a while and then began to teach again
                    in his home community. His success caused him to be chosen as principal of the Orleans Academy,
                    where he served from 1866 to 1870. He then became principal of the Female Academy of 
                        New Albany
                    , where he remained until he was called to 
                        Evansville
                     in 1875 to succeed Alexander M. Gow as the superintendent of city schools. Here he
                    remained until he became State Superintendent. Two years was but a short time in which to accomplish
                    big things, but there was no recession in the high standards set by his predecessors while John M.
                    Bloss was in, charge. As president of the State Board of Education, member of the board of trustees
                    of the State Normal School, and director of the new and vastly enlarged public school system of the
                    state, he labored incessantly and efficiently. Soon after he retired from the office of State
                    Superintendent, he became superintendent of the 
                        Muncie
                     schools. Next he served as superintendent of the schools of 
                  Topeka, Kansas
               .
                    From 1891 to 1896, he was president of the State Agricultural College of 
                        Oregon
                    . While at 
                        Muncie
                    , he had purchased a four hundred acre farm not far from the city, to which he now
                    returned. A number of years later, he served as a member of the enlarged State Board of Education
                    from 1902 to 1905.23
            
            The Indiana State Board of Education was set up under the legislation of 1852. Until 1865 it was
                    composed of state 
                  
                     22 Skinner, "Our Superintendents of Public Instruction, James
                            Henry Smart, LL.D.," Indiana School Journal,XXIX, 525-531. The
                            sketch was written after President Smart had been at 
                                Purdue
                             for a little more than a year. See Who's Who in America,
                                1899-1900, and Dictionary of American Biography for further
                            material. James H. Smart died in 1900 when not yet fifty-nine.
                  
                     23 Skinner, "Our Superintendents of Public Instruction, John
                            Mc-Knight Bloss," Indiana School Journal, XXIX, 587-594,
               
                     officials and its duties were unimportant. When reorganized,
                    the State Superintendent was continued as its president and the Governor remained a member, but
                    their associates were now to be the president of Indiana University, the president of the State
                    Normal School and the superintendents of the cities of the state ranking first, second, and third in
                    regard to the number of school children enumerated. In 1875 the president of Purdue University was
                    added to the membership, and no further changes were made in the composition of the Board until
                    1899. As constituted after the reorganization of 1865, the Board always included able educators and
                    exerted a real influence.
            By a law of 1873, the office of county superintendent was created. For many years before this, the
                    state had been experimenting with county examiners, for a time three in each county and then one.
                    The new legislation added some duties to those exercised by the county examiner and changed the
                    title. The choice of county superintendent was placed in the hands of the township trustees of each
                    county, a method of selection that still prevails. Because of the great and increasing number of
                    public schools in the seventies, the office of county superintendent at once became important. The
                    able state superintendents of the period when the public school system was being created had much to
                    do with the placing of great potential influence in the hands of county superintendents. This was
                    because these local school officials were the natural agents through whom state policies might be
                    carried out. A great deal depends on the man who fills the office today, as well as in all the years
                    since free, public schools became universal in Indiana, as to how valuable or influential the office
                    of county superintendent may be.
            The State Teachers' Association organized in 1854, became very powerful as a stimulating and
                    guiding influence in the years of the great awakening. The Association grew slowly as larger numbers
                    of the rank and file took on the habit of attending its annual meetings. Through its officers and
                    committees, the organization promoted worthy projects such as teacher training, a reading circle for
                    teachers, a reading circle for young people, and township, county, and  regional institutes.24 The annual meetings of the
                    Association held in December in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , or some other selected city, kept the active leaders in education in touch with each
                    other and placed them before a wider public. Papers dealing with current school problems were
                    prepared and read before the different sessions. These were often discussed and many of them were
                    published in the Indiana School Journal or in similar educational organs. In 1890
                    the membership of the Association was reported as 381, which was small for an organization started
                    in 1854 with 172 members. Reports indicate that the attendance was generally about twice the
                    membership from 1870 to 1890, from which it may be inferred that the payment of annual dues was
                        voluntary.25
            
            Institutes became such a prominent and universal feature of the business of teaching in the period
                    following the Civil War that they deserve more than passing mention. They developed as a quick way
                    to reach and help teachers who were in dire need. Year after year multitudes of teachers were added
                    to the ranks most of whom possessed a very inadequate knowledge of the subjects to be taught, and
                    knew less if possible about how to teach or how to organize and discipline a school. Conscientious
                    educational leaders were so deeply stirred by the sad situation that they resorted to short cuts
                    from necessity. In addition to private normal schools, normal colleges, and normal universities,
                    county institutes, state, or regional institutes, county normals, or normal institutes and township
                    institutes were developed some of which remained a conspicuous part of the picture for many years. A
                    state institute, promoted by the State Teachers' Association, was conducted at 
                        Knightstown
                    , Indiana, in the summer of 1865. This famous institute was written up fully in the Indiana School Journal under the title, "Indiana State Normal
                    School." It was directed by John M. Olcott, the chairman of a committee of the State
                    Association. It 
                  
                     24 The Indiana Teachers' Reading Circle became a prominent
                            professional and cultural influence which affected every Hoosier teacher who taught in the
                            common schools during the late decades of the nineteenth century. The Young
                            People's Reading Circle of Indiana was not organized until 1889, but it was
                            affecting the lives of ten thousand children by the end of its first year.
                  
                     25 Presidents of Indiana University, the State Normal School and other
                            colleges were quite sure to be honored by being elected to the presidency of the
                            Association, each for one year. Prominent city superintendents were apt to be so honored as
                            was a college professor occasionally.
               
                     ran for four weeks, with more than a hundred teachers in
                    attendance, eleven regular instructors and several lecturers from outside the state who performed
                    once or twice to give tone and variety to the mighty effort at improvement. It is hard to see how
                    more uplift could have been crowded into four weeks.26 Another state institute,
                    referred to as a "normal institute" and never as a summer session, was held in the
                    new State Normal building and conducted mainly by the president and faculty of the new institution
                    during the summer of 1870. The attendance ran to one hundred and fifty and was marked by the absence
                    of regular students of the Normal School. The program was similar to that put on at 
                        Knightstown
                     five years earlier, though there were very few lectures by outsiders.27 In the same period, there were in other years, some regional institutes with similar
                    programs, held in three or four centers scattered over the state. In all, there were few institutes
                    of this description.
            In the eighties and nineties there were many county normals, or review terms. These usually ran for
                    six or eight weeks, and were conducted by local teachers, who had been away at school for longer or
                    shorter periods and who felt an urge to aid young teachers to get started and old ones to keep
                    going, while obtaining for themselves some summer income. Usually there were two instructors who
                    could generally count on the friendship and support of the county superintendent. The desire for a
                    first license or the need to obtain a new one to replace one that had expired, or was about to
                    expire, inspired many of those who enrolled. No credits were sought or given and examinations were
                    rare. The work done in such summer normals did stimulate many of the younger attendants to go to the
                    State Normal School, to some college, or to Indiana University.28
            
            The county institute lasted for one week as a general rule. In time every county held one during
                    August or early 
                  
                     26 "Indiana State Normal School," Indiana School Journal, X (1865), 307-312.
                  
                     27 William A. Jones, "Special Term of the Normal
                            School," Indiana School Journal, XV (1870), 323-324; [Barnabas C.
                            Hobbs], Eighteenth Report of the Superintendent of Public Instruction
                                … for the years ending August 31, 1869, and August 31, 1870(
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1870), 89.
                  
                     28 The writer never attended a summer normal, but he taught in three
                            (summers of 1894, 1895, 1896). These three were well attended, but they came near the close
                            of the era of county normals which had its beginning before 1870.
               
                     September. In most cases, there were two instructors, with some
                    added work in music. At least one instructor lectured in the field of pedagogy, the other in some
                    other field. If the other line of work was in history, literature, or some other academic subject,
                    the lecturer might present either methods of teaching the subject or deal with content. From the
                    early period of county institutes in Indiana, lecturers were anxious to come from other states and
                    many institute instructors from the outside came to be well known to Indiana teachers. Among the
                    institute instructors, whether from within the state or from afar, there were inspiring lecturers,
                    scholars who aroused great interest in their subjects, and superficial entertainers.29 Township institutes were conducted cooperatively by the teachers of townships in which
                    they were held. They could be good, poor, or indifferent according to circumstances. Outlines were
                    prepared for the entire state and distributed to the teachers of each township through the county
                    superintendents. After some years, each teacher drew an extra day's wage each month for
                    attending his township institute. In the final stage of the township institutes, extension courses
                    were taken for credit, the instructors being furnished by the extension divisions of institutions
                    maintaining extension work.
            The system of licensing teachers through examinations, the lists of questions being prepared by, or
                    on the responsibility of, the State Board of Education and distributed to county superintendents
                    from the office of the State Superintendent, reached its highest perfection between 1870 and 1890.
                    This check on the qualifications of teachers, so fully relied on in the period of the establishment
                    of the free, public school system continued with little change until gradually abolished by the
                    teacher training laws passed from 1907 to 1921. Anyone now living who became a teacher in Indiana
                    without a State Normal diploma before 1907 will remember the examinations that had to be passed.30
            
            
               
                  29 The writer attended a number of county institutes in the period from
                        1890 to 1907, and served as an instructor in several from 1913 to 1927. It would be possible to
                        list a considerable number of very able instructors who lectured in county institutes in
                        Indiana, many of them from outside the state.
               
                  30 The writer, when too young to teach and before he had any purpose to
                        enter the ranks, wrote on a teachers' examination along with forty or fifty older
                        seekers after licenses of one grade or another. A few weeks later the county superintendent
                        wrote: "Your grade in
            
            
            Very few indeed of the youth of Indiana went to college before 1870. More but not many received a
                    high school education or the equivalent before that year. Those who did, for the most part, attended
                    seminaries or academies. Fortunate were those who were too poor to go away from the home community
                    for secondary education, if they lived near an academy or seminary. For the ambitious young men who
                    attended such schools as the Bloomingdale Academy or the Seminary at 
                        Salem
                    , for example, before the coming of the new day, it meant something like going to
                    college in later times. Many a man was able to educate himself by virtue of what he learned in an
                    academy in the way of basic knowledge and habits of study formed. If he developed there a thirst for
                    learning and a tendency to add constantly to his store, he could go far and a large proportion of
                    such young men did do just that. The sad part was that so few could avail themselves of such
                    opportunities. At the same time, vast numbers of younger children received little or no schooling.
                    That the situation was desperate in Indiana for more than a generation after statehood cannot be
                    denied. Neither can it be denied that the reason was that free public schools could only be provided
                    by taxes levied on property. The truth is that it took a long time to convince the owners of
                    property that they must through the payment of taxes levied on their property furnish most of the
                    funds necessary to establish and maintain a system of public schools for all. This fact explains why
                    the court decisions of 1854 and 1857 were regarded as such appalling calamities by those who had
                    felt that victory was at last in their hands. It is because local school taxes were absolutely
                    necessary that the law of 1867 stands out as a shining landmark in the history of education in
                    Indiana.
            Having finally removed the great barrier to educational progress in 1867, the work of establishing
                    the vast, free public school system was performed with incredible rapidity. An intelligent and
                    deeply concerned educational leader who lived through the period of waiting and achievement, John
                        M.
                  arithmetic is too low for a license. Hope you will do better next time." In later
                            years, the writer obtained a twelve months' license in 1890, a twelve
                            months' license in 1891, a twenty-four months' license in 1892, and a
                            thirty-six months' license in 1893. This meant, passing successfully four
                            teachers' examinations. Then came exemption, followed by a life license in 1898 as
                            a result of receiving a diploma from the State Normal School.
               
                     Olcott, writing in 1876 when tax funds for schools had been
                    available for a very few years, said: 
                        The age is one of marked educational enterprise. Never before has so much attention been
                            given to schools. All things are being moved to bring up educational matters to the highest
                            pitch of efficiency. There is a general agitation of the public mind, today, upon the
                            various topics and questions pertaining to educational interests. There is a determination,
                            on all hands, to achieve the very best thing that can be done in this way. We are in the
                            midst of a generous rivalry, such as the world has never seen in education
                            before. And though the Hoosier State may have been slow in getting underway in this role,
                            and has unquestionably been left in the rear by more active sister states, she is not going
                            to stay very far behind. … 31
                  
                    
                
            This general statement of what had happened by 1876 is correct. But the creative work went on and one
                    can truly affirm that whereas only a bare start had been made in 1870, the structure was complete by
                    1890 with a school-house in every community of the state and a teacher in charge of each. Elementary
                    education was open to all. It is true that opportunities to go to high school were not yet open to
                    boys and girls of rural areas, but extended high school facilities, consolidated schools,
                    transportation of grade and high school pupils and various other things that are now common were but
                    features to be added. The basic system stood as a fait accompli in 1890.
            A study of enrollments brings out the fact that increasing multitudes entered the elementary schools
                    at once. These were located right in the communities where the pupils lived. Next came the high
                    schools of the cities and incorporated towns, though some years had to elapse before many families
                    fell into the habit of sending their children to high school even when it was much easier for them
                    to attend than it was for country children to walk to and from the district schools morning and
                    evening. College enrollments went up from 1870 to 1880 and increased more rapidly from 1880 to 1890,
                    but much greater expansion came after 1890.22 To 
                  
                     31 Olcott, "History of Public Schools in Indiana,"
                                Indiana School Journal, XXI, 316.
                  
                     32 Back in 1871, when the big boys of various communities first began
                            to go to the common schools in town and county, or to remain longer when already attendants,
                            the phenomenon attracted attention. Josh Billings (Henry Wheeler Shaw) took note of the new
                            tendency, and, pretending that it might be as dangerous as many citizens believed it to be,
                            offered this bit of advice to all young men: "Git schoolin' and cloas
                            both, if you kin; but if you can't git both, git cloas."
               
                     go to college, most students had to meet the transportation
                    expense and payments for board and room. These were often deterrent factors—more often
                    prohibitive. Furthermore, the acceptance of the idea that young men and women should go to college
                    was naturally harder for most people than it was to get used to high school attendance. In the
                    course of a few years, however, with the rapid growth of elementary schools and high schools, it was
                    bound to become natural for more and more high school graduates to go to college. In other words,
                    until the age of free, common schools and high schools, colleges could not grow greatly in respect
                    to the numbers of students.33
            
            In regard to teachers, the phenomenal development of the public schools from 1870 to 1890 quickly
                    affected their attendance at higher institutions. Though not required by law for many years, to
                    prepare themselves for their work, many teachers felt the urge to extend their education. Old and
                    young, they were apt to go to school, if only for a short time, in the period of the great
                    awakening. They went to the Indiana State Normal School, to the many private normal schools, to city
                    teacher training departments, to colleges, to Indiana University and to Purdue University. The idea
                    behind the establishment of the State Normal School was that teachers should be taught not only the
                    content of subjects but given training in psychology and methods with the chance to observe and
                    practice in model schools. There was no legislation, however, to determine where teachers should be
                    educated, and they distributed themselves to all of the higher institutions and were received. City
                    superintendents urged teachers to acquire further training and so did most county superintendents.
                    The natural desire to obtain a better education was also a force, and the fact that promotions were
                    more apt to come to those who prepared for them was another.
            The attendance at college while much higher by 1890 than earlier, does not, as already intimated,
                    seem large when compared with that of the years between World War I and World War II. Enrollments
                    for the year ending in June, 1890, in the three state institutions will illustrate this point:
                    Indiana University, 438; Purdue University, 349; Indiana 
                  
                     33 As economic conditions improved, it was easier for families to send
                            their children to college, but until the notion that college education was desirable was
                            accepted, numerous families with means did not consider sending their sons or daughters to
                            college.
               
                     State Normal School, 671. These figures include preparatory
                    students, whose numbers were great enough to prove that high school education was not yet very
                    popular. The total for Indiana University includes 99 preparatory students and for Purdue University
                    111. Because the Normal School was still obliged to train mainly teachers for the common schools,
                    the number of high school graduates among the student body, though increasing year by year, was but
                    129 for the year 1889-1890. Since the spring quarter attendance at the Normal School was much
                    greater than that for other quarters, while the attendance was more steady through the year at the
                    two universities, it should be stated that the average for the year at the Normal School was 463,
                    including students who were not high school graduates.34 Of the state supported
                    schools, the Normal School at 
                        Terre Haute
                     had the best chance to grow between 1870 and 1890, because it was a teachers'
                    school which was started just at the beginning of the mighty movement creating the public school
                    system of the state. In fact, it simply could not avoid expansion under the conditions that
                    accompanied its first twenty years. It was caught in the current of the time and favored by it much
                    as were city and state superintendents.
            The characteristics of the superintendents of that day have been described and the leading facts
                    pertaining to the careers of several of them have been presented. The first president of the State
                    Normal School was William A. Jones who left a great impress on the institution and on the schools of
                    Indiana. He was a student of philosophy, an advocate of thorough work, and a powerful advocate of
                    teacher training. He was followed by George P. Brown who was well known for his work as
                    superintendent of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools. He guided the institution through a few years of steady growth from 1879 to
                    1885 when William W. Parsons, a member of the graduating class of 1872, the first class in the
                    history of the school, succeeded him. This alumnus, a disciple of William A. Jones and a forceful
                    leader and able administrator 
                  
                     34 Indiana University abolished the preparatory department at the end
                            of the year 1889-1890. The total enrollment at DePauw University at the end of 1890 was
                            1,038. This number included 338 preparatory students and many students in the School of
                            Music, School of Art, School of Military Tactics, and the Normal Department. Students in the
                            School of Law, the School of Geology, and the College of Liberal Arts, plus eleven graduate
                            students, totaled 418.
               
                     in his own right, was to remain president of the Normal School
                    until 1921 serving through a long, changing period.
            The first president of Purdue University, if Professor Richard Owen of Indiana University who never
                    became active is not counted, was Abraham C. Shortridge. Having distinguished himself as
                    superintendent of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools, he served the new university through its most difficult years from 1874 to
                    1878. He was succeeded by Emerson E. White, who remained until 1883. President White had been State
                    Superintendent of Public Instruction in 
                        Ohio
                     before coming to Indiana, and he became superintendent of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     schools for a few years a short time after returning to 
                        Ohio
                    . The next president of Purdue was James H. Smart whose third term as State
                    Superintendent had closed in March, 1881. He remained president for seventeen years, a period of
                    tremendous importance in the history of the young and developing institution. Because of the unusual
                    forward movement in public education, in which President Smart had taken a leading part, he was able
                    to so direct the affairs of Purdue University that the great progress possible under the many
                    favoring conditions could be achieved.
            The man of the hour at Indiana University was David Starr Jordan. He was not found among the able
                    city superintendents of the time, nor had he gained prominence as a State Superintendent or fame as
                    a minister of the gospel before he turned educator. A graduate student in biology, he came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to teach in the high school during 1874-1875, a colleague being William W. Parsons. The
                    next year, he became a professor at Northwestern Christian University (
                        Butler
                     University), where he remained for four years. He kept up his research during summers
                    and while teaching, but found time to try for positions in several universities without success. In
                    1879 he became a professor at Indiana University, succeeding Richard Owen. He not only carried his
                    classes but kept himself extremely busy doing research and field work. He believed in himself and
                    fully expected to accomplish big things as a student whose ability and promise had been recognized
                    by Louis Agassiz and Andrew D. White. After six years at Indiana, he was to his complete surprise
                    chosen to succeed the Reverend Lemmel Moss, D.D., as president. He served from 1885 to 1891, six
                    years of great significance in his life and that of the University. He  was not only a scholar in an academic field instead of a
                    philosopher-administrator or theologian-educator, but he was a man devoted to science and scientific
                    methods. The spirit of science was to pervade higher institutions of learning in America and exert
                    great influence in education generally. It was a great day for Indiana when 
                        Jordan
                     became president of Indiana University. By liberalizing the course of study, bringing
                    to the faculty young men of promise and linking up the fortunes of the institution with those of the
                    people of the state, he opened doors that were waiting and ready to swing wide. He did not remain
                    long but he left a great deal of his spirit behind when he went to 
                        California
                     in 1891 at the age of forty.35
            
            Truly a great chapter in the educational history of Indiana was written between 1870 and 1890. It was
                    not a revival, as some have classed it, but a great awakening. It produced strong leaders, but in
                    turn it furnished the conditions that made for their success. It was a movement well supported by
                    the masses and they profited by it. Surely any Hoosier who lived through that period and who became
                    interested in education must have experienced a profound satisfaction in looking backward over that
                    score of years, and likewise have felt a thrill of anticipation when he cast his eyes towards the
                    future. Should it be too much to hope, that having once responded so fully to her deep
                    responsibility and splendid opportunity, Indiana may again, relying less completely on the virtue of
                    conservatism, experience a new awakening and move more swiftly towards a better day.
            
               
                  35 David Starr Jordan, The Days of a Man (2 vols.,
                        Yonkers-on-Hudson, 
                            New York
                        , 1922), I, 129-362; Woodburn, History of Indiana University,
                        1820-1902, pp. 360-400.
            
         
         
         
            German Immigration to 
                        Dubois County
                    , Indiana, During the Nineteenth Century
            ELFRIEDA LANG
            
            In the nineteenth century the German immigrants made an indelible impression on a number of regions
                    in the 
                        United States
                    . Their political, cultural, and social influence has made its imprint on many American
                    institutions. Although the Germans had very little to do with the framing of the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    , they have had a part in the development of the republican form of government which the
                    Constitution established. They have been influential in some of the more important and progressive
                    political contests of the nineteenth century, such as the abolition of slavery, civil service
                    reform, sound money, party reforms, and independence in voting.1 The American
                    educational system from the kindergarten to the university was influenced by the Germans. Their
                    social influence may be found in the cultivation of those arts and habits which elevate and add to
                    the happiness of living. Art and music were especially fostered by the Germans.2
            
            As the following letter indicates, Adolf Brandeis was much impressed by the musical talent of a group
                    of Germans while he visited 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, in the fall of 1849: 
                        I cannot complain of boredom as there are six or eight German students in our house, some of
                            them from 
                                Vienna
                             and some from Saxony, who have just come over here. As they do not know what
                            else to do for a living, they think of travelling about and giving vocal concerts. Some of
                            them are excellent musicians with good voices, and we have singing and music all day long.
                            Besides that, they are fine fellows.3
                  
                    
                
            Albert B. Faust, the historian, made this complimentary statement about the Germans in America:
                        
                        The German traits are such as to unite the various formative elements of the American people
                            more securely and harmoniously. In common with the English stock of 
                                New England
                            , the German is inspired 
                        
                           1 Albert B. Faust, The German Element in the 
                                            United States
                                        
                            (2 vols., 
                                        Boston
                                    , 1909), II, 200; Edward A. Ross, The Old World in the
                                    New (
                                        New York
                                    , 1914), 57.
                        
                           2 Faust, The German Element in the 
                                            United States
                                        
                           , II, 250-252; Ross, The Old World in the
                                    New, 54.
                        
                           3 Josephine C. Goldmark, Pilgrims of
                                    '48 (
                              New Haven,
                                            Connecticut
                           , 1930),
                                221.
                     
                             with idealism, the origin of education, music, and art;
                            he shares with the Scot a stern conscience and a keen sense of duty; he touches the Irish
                            with his emotional nature, his joy of living, and his sense of humor; and, thus linking the
                            great national elements together, the German provides the backbone, with the physical and
                            mental qualities of vigor, sturdiness, and vitality, and the moral tone of genuineness,
                            virility, and aspiration.4
                  
                    
                
            The largest contribution to the population of the 
                        United States
                     for a period of a hundred years from 1820 to 1919, was made by a group of ten nations,
                    most of which were located in western Europe.
            
               
                  THE TEN LEADING COUNTRIES5
                  
               
               
                  
                            
                                Germany
                            
                        
                  5,494,690
                  
                            
                                England
                            
                        
                  2,434,144
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ireland
                            
                        
                  4,348,759
                  
                     
                                Canada
                             and Newfoundland
                  1,882,661
               
               
                  
                            
                                Italy
                            
                        
                  4,100,735
                  Sweden
                  1,110,377
               
               
                  
                     
                                Austria
                            -
                                Hungary
                            
                  
                  4,068,451
                  Norway
                  727,139
               
               
                  Russia
                  3,279,254
                  
                            
                                Scotland
                            
                        
                  557,759
               
            
            Immigration to the 
                        United States
                     in this century showed an almost steady increase until the decade of the nineties. A
                    similar decline occurred in the second decade of the twentieth century.6
            
            
               
                  1820-1830
                  -
                  151,824
                  1871-1880
                  -
                  2,812,191
               
               
                  1831-1840
                  -
                  599,125
                  1881-1890
                  -
                  5,246,613
               
               
                  1841-1850
                  -
                  1,713,251
                  1891-1900
                  -
                  3,687,564
               
               
                  1851-1860
                  -
                  2,598,214
                  1901-1910
                  -
                  8,795,386
               
               
                  1861-1870
                  -
                  2,314,824
                  1911-1919
                  -
                  5,305,810
               
            
            German immigration during this same period did not follow exactly the same pattern. It was quite
                    large in the decades of the fifties and the eighties, after which it declined sharply.7
            
            
               
                  1820-1830
                  -
                  7,729
                  1871-1880
                  -
                  718,182
               
               
                  1831-1840
                  -
                  152,454
                  1881-1890
                  -
                  1,452,970
               
               
                  1841-1850
                  -
                  434,626
                  1891-1900
                  -
                  505,152
               
               
                  1851-1860
                  -
                  951,667
                  1901-1910
                  -
                  341,498
               
               
                  1861-1870
                  -
                  787,468
                  1911-1919
                  -
                  142,944
               
            
            
               
                  4 Faust, The German Element in the 
                                United States
                            
                  , II, 475.
               
                  5
                        
                            United States
                         Department of Labor, Annual Report of the Commissioner General of
                            Immigration (1930), Tables 83 and 84, pp. 202-205. The figures for 
                            Canada
                         and Newfoundland from 1820 to 1898 included all British North American possessions.
                        From 1820 to 1868 the figures for Norway and Sweden were combined.
               
                  6
                        
                            United States
                         Department of Labor, Annual Report of the Commissioner General of
                            Immigration (1930), Tables 83 and 84, pp. 202-205.
               
                        7
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            German immigration of the nineteenth century may be divided into three periods. The first period
                    would include all those who came before 1848 and who were frequently referred to as the
                    "Grays." This period attracted many peasants and laborers who were accustomed to
                    hard work and who did not possess a high standard of living. Some of the better educated who came
                    during this time, in spite of hard work, did not achieve success. Gustav Körner, who came
                    to America in 1833, was an outstanding leader of the "Grays" and was
                    contemptuously referred to as "der graue Gustav." The second period, from 1848 to
                    1865, attracted mostly merchants, manufacturers, and professional people who were better-known as
                    the "Greens" or "Forty-eighters." This group was very
                    influential in the political and cultural development of the 
                        United States
                    . The most outstanding German-American of this period was Carl Schurz. Many of these
                    immigrants entered the field of journalism and at one time controlled almost half of the German
                    newspapers in the 
                        United States
                    . The "Forty-eighters" were disappointed in the efforts put forth by
                    those who had migrated before 1848 in maintaining German institutions, and through their newspapers
                    attacked the "Grays." The third period began after the Civil War, 1866, and
                    represented a better educated working class. Many who were identified with this period were
                    interested in the development of the commerce and manufactures of the 
                        United States
                    . Then too, there were those who became prominent in technical and professional
                        fields.8
            
            It is not possible to give the total immigration figures for the first period because no records were
                    available prior to 1820. From 1820 to 1847 the addition of Germans to the population of the 
                        United States
                     was 397,213; from 1848 to 1865 there was a considerable increase making the total for
                    that period 1,382,315; and from 1866 to 1899 there was 
                  
                     8 Friedrich Münch, "Die drei Perioden der neueren
                            deutschen Auswanderung nach Nordamerika," Der Deutsche Pionier
                            (18 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1869-1887), I (1869), 243-246; Carl F. Wittke, We Who Built
                                America (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 193; Faust, The German Element in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , I, 590; Ernest Bruncken, "German Political Refugees in the 
                                United States
                             during the Period from 1815 to 1860," Deutsch-Amerikanische Geschichtsblätter von 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1901-), III (October, 1903), 44; George M. Stephenson, A History
                                of American Immigration (
                                Boston
                            , 1926), 48; "German Emigration to America," The
                                North American Review (248 vols., 
                        Boston, New York
                     ,
                            1815-1940), LXXXII (1856), 266-267.
               
                     again an increase with a total of 3,212,213 for the third
                    period." Among those who emigrated during the first two periods were political refugees and
                    intellectual men who gave the movement color. Many of them were young people with high ideals which
                    they had not been able to realize in the old country.10
            
            A number of factors may account for the German immigration. Here consideration must be given to
                    events in 
                        Germany
                     as well as in America. Associations were formed in 
                        Germany
                     to settle a state and secure its admission to the Union as the twenty-fifth member of
                    the Confederacy. The object was to form a German state beyond the ocean where the German language
                    and customs might be preserved, as well as to receive those whose hopes and claims to liberty and
                    right had been denied in old 
                        Germany
                    .11 The associations were interested in a particular area in
                    America. It appears as if more remote districts were sought in order that there might not be too
                    much interference by Americans. Among the associations formed were the Giessener
                    Auswan-derungsgesellschaft which was interested in settling a German state in 
                        Arkansas
                    , and the Mainzer Adelsverein which planned to develop 
                        Texas
                    .12
            
            The Giessen Association was formed in 1833. It had a membership of several hundred individuals from
                    Hesse, Westphalia, and the Saxonies, among whom were many wealthy and educated men. In the spring of
                    1834 a delegation from this company embarked in two ships at 
                        Bremen
                     for the 
                        United States
                    . They had the necessary resources to carry out their plan, but because of inexperienced
                    leaders the project failed. Disagreements among the various individuals arose, and at each stopping
                    place a group would leave. The remainder settled in the vicinty of 
                        St. Louis
                    . They brought a bell along from 
                        Germany
                     for the proposed town hall, but it was eventually hung in a barn. A costly telescope
                    which was brought for the intended observatory was placed in a log cabin.13
            
            
               
                  9 "Statistical Review of Immigration to the 
                            United States
                        , 1820 to 1910," in Senate Documents, 61 Cong., 3 Sess.,
                        VII, no. 747 (serial no. 5865), 66-92.
               
                  10 Stephenson, A History of American Immigration, 43.
               
                  11 Stuttgart Universal Gazette, September 2, 1832,
                        quoted in Niles' Weekly Register (
                            Baltimore
                        , 1811-1837), XLIII (November 3, 1832), 148.
               
                  12 Wittke, We Who Built America, 197-198.
               
                  13 Franz Löher, Geschichte und Zustände
                            der Deutschen in Amerika (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1847), 278.
            
            
            In 1842 among the schemes which had evolved in 
                        Germany
                     for settling emigrants in America was that patronized by certain noblemen. An
                    association was formed with Count Castel in charge. In the following year Count Waldeck was sent as
                    an agent to 
                        Texas
                    . He accomplished very little outside of appropriating a slave plantation for himself.
                    He was dismissed, and the next year the association became very active. Under the title of Mainzer
                    Adelsverein, a charter was granted by the Duke of Nassau, who assumed the protectorate. The plan for
                    inviting emigrants was published. It offered to each adult who subscribed $120, a free
                    passage, and forty acres of land; to a family who subscribed $240, a free passage, and
                    eighty acres of land. The association further stated that it would provide log houses, stock, and
                    tools at reasonable prices, and erect public buildings and roads for the settlement. The land that
                    was purchased was in the heart of the savage country and the enterprise failed.14
            
            Societies were also organized in America to promote German settlement. Among the most outstanding
                    ones were the 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Homestead Association, the 
                        Cincinnati
                     German Association, Germania in 
                        New York
                    , and the 
                        Chicago
                     Landverein, which was influential in the settlement of New Ulm, 
                        Minnesota
                    .15
            
            On January 24, 1835, Germania was organized in 
                        New York
                    . Its objects were to maintain a strong German character, German customs and education,
                    to make an effort to improve conditions in 
                        Germany
                    , and to assist refugees and immigrants with advice and material aid.16
            
            Since a grant of land had been made to 235 Poles in 1834,17 Franz
                    Löher states Germania also sent a memorial to Congress requesting land for German
                    refugees and offering to pay later the minimum price. Congress, however, did not grant their
                    request. They then planned to direct German settlers to one state of the Union, get control of it,
                    and make it a German state. They could not agree on a location, as some wanted 
                        Texas
                    , others 
                        Oregon
                    , while most of the group favored states between the 
                        Mississippi
                     and the 
                  
                     14 Frederick L. Olmstead, A Journey Through 
                                    Texas
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1857), 173-175.
                  
                     15 Wittke, We Who Built America, 198.
                  
                     16 Gustav Körner, Das Deutsche Element in den
                                Vereinigten Staaten von Nordamerika, 1818-1848 (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880), 108.
                  
                     17
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, IV, 743.
               
                     Great Lakes. The society finally dissolved, and the members
                    scattered over the 
                        United States
                    , some establishing colonies, and others becoming newspaper editors.18
            
            In August, 1836, in 
                        Philadelphia
                     a meeting was held in the Penn Hotel for the purpose of forming a German state. In a
                    later meeting a constitution was adopted and directors were chosen. This association later bought
                    over twelve thousand acres of land in 
                        Gasconade County
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    , and founded the town of Hermann on the Missouri River. Only a few
                    settlers arrived in the fall of 1837, but in 1838 quite a large group arrived.19
            
            During the first months of 1854, a number of 
                        Chicago
                     businessmen supported a movement to pass a law to create the office of commissioner of
                    emigration, whose task it would be to travel through 
                        Germany
                     in order to direct emigrants to 
                        Illinois
                    . Since the law was never passed, the Germans of 
                        Chicago
                     organized a society which employed an agent to take care of the new German immigrants
                    when they arrived at that city.20
            
            After the Civil War many of the Southern states directed their attention to white immigrants to aid
                    reconstruction in the South. In 
                        Charleston
                     an immigrant aid society was founded and shares were offered to the people which might
                    be paid for either in money or land. Farms and plantations were acquired, and those in charge sought
                    to induce peasants from Europe to become settlers. In 
                        Alabama
                     the legislature incorporated a German Association which was expected to promote German
                    immigration to that state by advertising in European papers the possibilities of the soil for white
                        labor.21
            
            The federal government was interested in the problem of immigration as a "Special Report on
                    Immigration," was made in 1870 by Edward Young, chief of the Bureau of Statistics. The
                    document contained information about prices and rental of land, staple products, facilities of
                    access to market, cost of livestock, advantages of the particular district 
                  
                     18 Löher, Geschichte und Zustände
                                der Deutschen in Amerika, 281-282.
                  
                     19 Körner, Dos Deutsche Element, 70-71.
                  
                     20 Arthur C. Cole, The Era of the Civil War, 1848-1870
                                (Centennial History of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , 5 vols., 
                        Springfield,
                                    Illinois
                     , 1918-1920, III, 1919),
                            23-24.
                  
                     21 Ellis P. Oberholtzer, History of the 
                                    United States
                                 since the Civil War (5 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1917-1937), I, 80.
               
                     living expenses, and kinds of labor in demand in Western and
                    Southern states.22 In 1872 at the expense of the federal government ten thousand
                    copies of the above-mentioned document were printed in German and distributed in Europe.23 Such action on the part of the federal government, no doubt, would make an
                    impression on those who had thought of migrating to America, and it is likely others would also
                    become interested.
            Because entire villages were depopulated, the governments of 
                        Germany
                     became alarmed, and, therefore, placed a quarantine against all American publications
                    and prohibited American-German papers in their dominion. Newspapers were not permitted to receive or
                    accept advertisements which might induce or encourage emigration, and no placards relative to
                    emigration could be posted in public places.24 The emigration, nevertheless,
                    appears to have continued.
            A review of conditions in 
                        Germany
                     may indicate why emigration took place on such a large scale. After the Napoleonic Wars
                    famine and sickness as well as severe winters brought hardships to many a German home. In the
                    spring, therefore, after the snow had disappeared from the roads and the people could travel with
                    more ease one heard from all over 
                        Germany
                     "Nach Amerika! Nach Amerika!"25
            
            In 1816 the ports of Holland were filled with Germans, and in the spring of 1817 it appeared as if
                    southern 
                        Germany
                     might be depopulated. In a fortnight four thousand bade farewell to Baden, and
                    Württemberg in the same year lost sixteen thousand. The banks of the Rhine were crowded
                    with people who did not have the means to emigrate. Some thirty thousand returned from Holland
                    because of insufficient funds to defray the cost of the voyage to America. In 1818 the emigration
                    fever again took its toll. Thirty thousand went down the Rhine through Mainz, and
                    Württemberg 
                  
                     22 "Special Report on Immigration," in House Executive Documents, 42 Cong., 1 Sess., no. 1 (serial no. 1470).
                  
                     23 "Printing of Report on Immigration in the Swedish
                            Language," in House Executive Documents, 42 Cong., 1 Sess., no.
                            287 (serial no. 1615). The title of this document is misleading.
                  
                     24 "Emigration and Immigration, Reports of the Consular
                            Officers of the 
                                United States
                            ," in House Executive Documents, 49 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            no. 157 (serial no. 2483), 154; Niles' National Register
                                    (
                        Washington, Baltimore
                     , or 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1837-1849), LXIX (December 13, 1845), 226; ibid., LXXII
                            (July 24, 1847), 325.
                  
                     25 Löher, Geschichte und Zustände
                                der Deutschen in Amerika, 254.
               
                     again contributed nine thousand. In 1817 and 1818 about sixty
                    thousand left the fatherland while in 1819 only twenty thousand. The decrease may be attributed to a
                    better harvest and a milder winter. In the next five years the emigration continued but alternated
                    between six and twelve thousand.26
            
            Newspapers and letters from America painted beautiful pictures about the land. No doubt, letters
                    similar to those written by Gottfried Duden were circulated. A few paragraphs are here quoted from
                    Duden's Thirteenth Letter: 
                        I must impress emphatically upon you that the meaning of the words "fertile
                            soil" is very different in this region from what it is in 
                                Germany
                            . Good soil, or soil of the first order does not require any fertilizer for the
                            first hundred years of its use, and during the first decades is too rich even for wheat.
                            … Average soil, or soil of the second class is still of such a nature, that
                            during the first twelve, to twenty years fertilizer can not increase the yield of grain.
                            …
                        I am unable to describe the impression, which my wanderings, for days, in this river valley
                            have made upon me. For hundreds of miles one can wander among these giant trees without
                            being touched by a single sunbeam. The ground is so black from the humus that has
                            accumulated since primitive times, that it seems one were walking on beds of coal. I have
                            seen grapevines, whose trunks, over a foot in diameter, rose straight up for more than a
                            hundred feet and then spread their densely foliaged vines over the tops of elms.
                        There are several varieties of grapevines here, and many hills are so covered with them that
                            in a short time a wagon load of grapes can be gathered. …27
                  
                    
                
            The great flood of the Rhine in 1825, scanty harvests, and a severe winter in other regions
                    encouraged emigration. In 1829 and 1830 when conditions improved in 
                        Germany
                     emigration decreased. In the spring of 1832 many were again on the move. One day seven
                    trains with seven hundred emigrants from the vicinity of Stuttgart went through Koblenz, and in the
                    neighborhood of Heilbronn one thousand went at once to America.28
            
            In 1846-1847 and again in 1852-1855 the failure of the potato crop in 
                        Germany
                    , as well as a considerable rise in the price of rye and other foodstuffs served as an
                    incentive 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 254-255.
                  
                     27 "Gottfried Duden's "Report",
                            1824-1827," translated by William G. Bek, 
                        
                                    Missouri
                                 Historical Review (
                        Columbia, Missouri
                     ,
                            1906-), XII (1918), 83-85.
                  
                     28 Löher, Geschichte und Zustände
                                der Deutschen in Amerika, 255, 271.
               
                     to some people to emigrate. In 1850-1853 there was also a
                    failure of the vintage in Württemberg.29
            
            A letter written in 1854 indicates that the conditions were bad and taxes so high that many were
                    worried about raising the necessary funds each month.
            
                    You say that the Graefinhausers have been at your house, and this week the following have left
                        [for America]: Jacob Mager's three sons, Mansebauer's second son. They will
                        soon come to see you. In the spring Lehnert's Fritz from Ertzhausen will come with his
                        entire family and his old father will go with them. He has already sold everything, and you are
                        also to tell Miller Schneider's son to write home. His parents are still well. We are
                        just now having fruit markets, and when we want something we have to go to the markets at 
                            Grossgerau
                         or to Rottlage, or to Darmstadt in order to buy. But there is the
                        rub—the money is lacking for that. We are not allowed to buy from any farmer or Jew.
                        … there has been little [work] so that many can't make a living, and
                        what's the use. Everything is bad! It would be a good idea if everybody moved away.
                    Also write me what taxes you have to pay every month. I have to pay 73 florins30 every month; soon we'll not know any more how to raise the money and where it
                        is to come from. …31
               
                
            Some farmers emigrated because they feared another war and there appeared to be no future under the
                    heavy burden of taxation which existed."32
            
            Both rich and poor emigrated to escape military service, which was considered by the rich as an
                    inconvenience and by the poor as a hardship. A young man was expected to devote fifteen days each
                    year to military practice and from four to six weeks to maneuvers. The young man who had a position
                    as a clerk or workman frequently lost his position or job by being called off to military practice
                    in the midst of his work, or the young farmer was called for a period of four to six weeks for
                    maneuvers just at harvest time, when it was practically impossible for him to leave.33
            
            
               
                  29 Frederick J. Turner, "German Immigration into the 
                            United States
                        ," 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Record Herald, September 4, 1901.
               
                  30 Until 1875 a florin or gulden having the value of thirty-five cents was
                        the monetary unit in the South German states.
               
                  31 From the original letter written to Peter Schmidt in 
                            Buffalo
                        , 
                            New York
                        , on February 3, 1854, by Schmidt in Fleischmühl, 
                            Germany
                        . This letter was loaned by Robert Irrmann of 
                            Park Ridge
                        , 
                            Illinois
                        , the great-grandson of Peter Schmidt.
               
                  32 "Emigration and Immigration," in House
                            Executive Documents, 49 Cong., 2 Sess., no. 157, p. 152.
               
                  33
                        Ibid.; Jeremiah W. Jenks, and W. Jett Lauck, The Immigration
                            Problem (
                            New York
                        , 1913), 14; Turner, "German Immigration into the 
                            United States
                        ," 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Record Herald, September 4, 1901.
            
            
            A few lines from a letter written in 1867 indicate conditions and the destructiveness of the troops:
                        
                        Everybody is clamoring for money and food because what the troops did not eat, they
                            destroyed. I also harvested very little and am making many debts which will be hard to pay.
                            There is nothing to be earned for everything is at a standstill because we are all afraid of
                            a great war this year. Everything is ready, all the soldiers have been mobilized and in May
                            there will be another call… 34
                  
                    
                
            An impression was made upon many a German mind by the statements that in America the taxgatherer was
                    not a constant visitor to the cabin of the settler, and that no one was obliged to serve as a
                    soldier for more than a week each year. Posters announcing the departure of vessels from 
                        Bremen
                    , Holland, and Havre were to be found in conspicuous places in every village and town.
                    The great topic of the day, emigration to America, was discussed in the family circle and
                        beerhouses.35 When a letter arrived from America giving detailed information
                    on military service and taxes, such as the following, no doubt, serious consideration was given to
                    it in the family circle.
            
                    There is no conscription in this land and soldiers are hired like servants. Men go if they have a
                        desire for military service.
                    Concerning the taxes, these are not the same in all states because the debts of one state may
                        exceed those of another. … Here in the state of Indiana, we have first, for men from
                        twenty-one to fifty years, the poll tax. This takes the place of military service. Then there is
                        a tax on livestock and furniture which is assessed each year, but not high, perhaps for half of
                        its value, and the rate is not the same each year; usually it is sixty or sixty-two cents on the
                        hundred dollars. The first hundred dollars are at present free and likewise the things most
                        essential to keeping house. It is a large household that pays sixty to sixty-two cents household
                        tax.
                    Public land is free from taxation for five years after purchase; after the expiration of this
                        time, the tax is one cent an acre. If the taxes are not paid within the period allowed by law,
                        there is no collector sent until after the two years. …36
               
                
            
               
                  34 From the original letter written to Lampert Schultheis at 
                            Ferdinand
                        , Indiana, by John Georg Fischer from Feuerthal, 
                            Germany
                        , April 12, 1867. The letter is in the possession of Mrs. Ira Rothrock of 
                            Mount Vernon
                        , Indiana, a granddaughter of Lampert Schultheis.
               
                  35 "German Emigration to America," The
                            North American Review, LXXXII (1856), 259-260.
               
                  36 Donald F. Carmony (ed.), "Letter Written by Mr. Johann
                        Wolfgang Schreyer," Indiana Magazine of History (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1905-), XL (1944), 292-293.
            
            
            Some were interested in emigrating because they were compelled to work beneath their station in life
                    and some would rather starve than to engage in work which their associates regarded as disgraceful.
                    In America no one needed to be ashamed of honest work. A carpenter who had difficulty in finding
                    employment at his trade emigrated to the 
                        United States
                     where he might chop wood or engage in some other type of work until an opening
                    developed in his trade. Sometimes German army officers had to resign commissions because they were
                    unable to pay a gambling debt or for some other reason. They might emigrate to America and there
                    achieve success by herding cattle in 
                        Texas
                    , which would have been considered a disgrace to his entire family if he had engaged in
                    such an occupation where he was known.37
            
            The father of a family frequently felt it was his duty to lift his children to a position of security
                    and happiness. He wanted to free them from the thought of spending their last years in a poorhouse
                    or having to depend upon charity. If he emigrated to America, he felt that he might have an
                    opportunity to find security.38 Johann Wolfgang Schreyer in his letter written
                    in 1846 from Indiana to 
                        Germany
                     indicated that a man owed it to his children to emigrate to America.
            
                    A man with a large family acts in the interests of his children by coming, even if the greatest
                        part of his belongings must be sacrificed for the journey. … If a man does not wish
                        to undertake the journey on account of advanced age or for some other reason, he can do nothing
                        better than to help his children emigrate to America, and the results of this emigration will
                        surely be so valuable that the younger descendants will thank the ancestor who has afforded them
                        the blessings of this land.39
               
                
            In Mecklenburg the conditions of the peasants were little more than serfdom and there appeared to be
                    little hope for political reform or for improvement in their civil and social position. These people
                    could be induced without much difficulty to give a willing ear to the emigration agents, because in
                    America these emigrants saw a land where their ideals could be and would be realized. They saw an
                    opportunity 
                  
                     37 "Emigration and Immigration," in House Executive Documents, 49 Cong., 2 Sess., no. 157, pp. 152-153.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 131, 204.
                  
                     39 Carmony (ed.), "Letter Written by Mr. Johann Wolfgang
                            Schreyer," Indiana Magazine of History, XL, 293-294.
               
                     for political and religious freedom, an absence of restrictions
                    upon the development of society, and the possibility of publishing opinions which could not be
                    realized in the old country.40 A few excerpts from Schreyer's letter
                    which places particular emphasis on the rights of the individual follow: 
                        All men stand on a common footing; officials are chosen for one or two years from among the
                            people. … Every man, after he has lived here five years, can become a citizen of
                            the 
                                United States
                            . It costs him one dollar and he can vote on all questions and be elected to
                            public office.
                        Independence is the greatest blessing of this country, and when one goes into the cities on
                            the Fourth of July, the anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence, one
                            finds such festivities going on as excel all similar celebrations in 
                                Germany
                            . It is a celebration that declares independence over again, speeches are made
                            in English and German and the people are exhorted to do all in their power that this freedom
                            may be preserved; a heartfelt tribute is paid to the men who gained the precious freedom of
                            our land. After the conclusion of these speeches, it is not the custom here to give three
                            cheers for the public officials, but all believe that the 
                                United States
                             form a nation of sovereign citizens who recognized no superior but God.
                            Expressions of this character are so numerous that I could fill whole pages and everyone is
                            filled with enthusiasm, especially a German who hears all this for the first time. It seems
                            impossible to him that there is really a country on earth where the worth of the individual
                            is so recognized, and it is to him a delight to hear people say: "Thank God, I,
                            too, am an American."41
                  
                    
                
            A change in the early forties in the established church of Prussia drove many old Lutherans to
                        America.42 Apparently some were dissatisfied before the change was made
                    since in 1838 a Lutheran congregation with its pastor set sail for America to "preserve the
                    true faith," and in this trait it resembled the Pilgrims who left 
                        England
                    , and then Holland, to come to America to preserve liberty of conscience. They 
                  
                     40 Thomas W. Page, "The Causes of Earlier European
                            Immigration to the 
                                United States
                            ," The Journal of Political Economy (
                                Chicago
                            , 1892-), XIX (1911), 677-683; Edith Abbott, Historical Aspects of
                                the Immigration Problem (
                                Chicago
                            , 1926), 97; Fred A. Shannon, Economic History of the People of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1934), 167.
                  
                     41 Carmony (ed.), "Letter Written by Mr. Johann Wolfgang
                            Schreyer," Indiana Magazine of History, XL, 288-289.
                  
                     42
                            
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Republican, June 7, 1843, quoted in Niles' National
                                Register, LXIV (June 17, 1843), 256.
               
                     differed from the Pilgrims in that they had sent agents ahead
                    to purchase land.43
            
            In America it was possible to get fertile land cheap. The immigrant could purchase land out of his
                    small savings on more favorable terms than at home and become a property owner, which position he
                    could seldom hope to attain in his country.44 In 
                        Germany
                     the original estates had been divided into smaller areas for a number of generations
                    until the tracts had become so small that it was impossible to support a family.45'
            Some of the young women were interested in emigrating to America because they had heard the rumor
                    that there was a demand for domestic services and that the compensation was much better than in 
                        Germany
                    .46 This rumor was confirmed by Schreyer who wrote
                    "… the girls, especially are eagerly sought after for maid service. …
                        "47 The certainty of constant employment with a remuneration and
                    hours which were more favorable, made their imprint on many.48
            
            Of the many Germans who came to the 
                        United States
                     because of these or other reasons and who were living in 1850 nearly half were living
                    in the North Central states. There were 573,225 Germans in the nation, of which there were 274,235
                    in the North Central states, or 47.84 per cent.49 It is apparent that Indiana
                    had a smaller percentage of Germans than the adjoining state of 
                        Illinois
                    . The Germans may have chosen the North Central states because land was more plentiful.
                    Some of them, no doubt, avoided the Southern states because they were not acquainted with the
                    products 
                  
                     43
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Sun quoted in Niles' National Register, LIV
                            (August 4, 1838), 367.
                  
                     44 "Emigration and Immigration," in House Executive Documents, 49 Cong., 2 Sess., no 157, pp. 164, 240; Wittke, We Who Built America, 188; Abbott, Historical Aspects of the
                                Immigration Problem, 99.
                  
                     45 Joseph Schafer, "The Yankee and the Teuton in 
                                Wisconsin
                            ," The 
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Magazine of History (
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     ,
                            1917-), VI (1922-1923), 143.
                  
                     46 "Emigration and Immigration," in House Executive Documents, 49 Cong., 2 Sess., no. 157, p. 175.
                  
                     47 Carmony (ed.), "Letter Written by Mr. Johann Wolfgang
                            Schreyer," Indiana Magazine of History, XL, 294.
                  
                     48 Page, "The Causes of Earlier European Immigration to the 
                                United States
                            ," The Journal of Political Economy, XIX, 685.
                  
                     49
                            Seventh Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1850, Statistics, Table XV, p. xxxvi.
               
                     of the South, free labor had been humiliated by competition
                    with slave labor, and the climate did not appeal to them.50
            
            
               
                  State
                  Total Foreign Population
                  Germans
                  % of Germans
               
               
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  651,801
                  118,398
                  20.66
               
               
                  
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                        
                  218,512
                  111,257
                  19.41
               
               
                  
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                            
                        
                  294,871
                  78,592
                  13.71
               
               
                  
                            
                                Missouri
                            
                        
                  72,474
                  44,352
                  7.74
               
               
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  110,593
                  38,160
                  6.66
               
               
                  
                            
                                Wisconsin
                            
                        
                  106,695
                  34,519
                  6.02
               
               
                  Indiana
                  54,426
                  28,584
                  4.99
               
               
                  
                            
                                Maryland
                            
                        
                  53,288
                  26,936
                  4.70
               
               
                  
                            
                                Louisiana
                            
                        
                  66,413
                  17,507
                  3.06
               
               
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  29,189
                  13,607
                  2.36
               
               
                  
                            
                                Michigan
                            
                        
                  54,852
                  10,070
                  1.76
               
               
                  
                            
                                Iowa
                            
                        
                  21,232
                  7,152
                  1.23
               
               
                  
                            
                                Minnesota
                            
                        
                  2,048
                  141
                  .03
               
               
                  Remaining states
                  474,445
                  43,950
                  7.67
               
               
                  Total
                  2,210,839
                  573,225
                   
               
            
            
               
                        Cincinnati
                     became one of the leading German-American cities in the 
                        United States
                    . The area where the Germans settled in this city, which was across the canal, became
                    known as "Over-the-Rhine" district.51 Travelers were impressed
                    by the fact that in almost all of the cities in the state of 
                        Ohio
                    , German translations were affixed to all signs over the stores in large golden letters,
                    which should be sufficient evidence that a large number of Germans had inhabited that state, and
                    that they must have been good customers.52
            
            Abraham Lincoln was also well aware of the fact that many Germans had settled in 
                        Illinois
                     because he found it advantageous to carry a German grammar and study that language in a
                    night class. In the winter of 1854 near Cairo on the Mississippi River he had
                    seen fourteen ice-locked steamboats which were loaded with two thousand German and Irish
                        immigrants.53
            
            We know that Germans were living in Indiana during 
                  
                     50 Kate A. Everest, "How 
                                Wisconsin
                             Came by its Large German Element," 
                        
                                    Wisconsin
                                 Historical Collections (
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     ,
                            1854-), XII (1892), 311.
                  
                     51 Wittke, We Who Built America, 200.
                  
                     52 Karl Bernhard, Duke of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach, Travels
                                Through North America during the Years 1825 and 1826 (2 volumes in one, 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1828), II, 152.
                  
                     53 Carl Sandburg, Abraham Lincoln, The 
                                    Prairie
                                 Years (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1926), I, 449.
               
                     the first quarter of the nineteenth century since the
                    French-Swiss colony of 
                        Vevay
                     was founded in 1796 and some German farmers followed this colony. Then too, Johann
                    Georg Rapp, a Württemberger, in 1815 founded a colony on the 
                        Wabash
                    , in 
                        Posey County
                    . The Duke of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach while traveling in America during the years 1825 and
                    1826 visited this colony and mentioned that it consisted of Württembergers and that he
                    conversed in German with them. Elias P. Ford-ham, when he visited the colony in 1818, made
                    particular mention of the fact that German was spoken, that the people were orderly, the town neat,
                    and that some of the members of the colony were excellent musicians. Thomas Hulme's Journal
                    contains an entry of a visit with the Germans at 
                        Harmony
                    , Indiana. Adlard Welby, who toured America during 1819-1820, stopped at 
                        Harmony
                    , Indiana, made particular mention of the poverty of the Germans living there, but was
                    impressed by the musical talent which members of this group displayed. The colony which had first
                    located in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     returned to its former location in 1825.54 Since no records were
                    available giving the German population of Indiana prior to 1850, the following table has been
                    prepared for 1850-1890 on the basis of the census reports of the 
                        United States
                    , Statistics of Population:
            
            
               ELEMENTS OF INDIANA's POPULATION
               
                  Year
                  Aggregate Population
                  Native
                  Foreign
                  German
               
               
                  1850
                  988,41655
                  
                  931,392
                  54,426
                  28,584
               
               
                  1860
                  1,350,428
                  1,232,144
                  118,284
                  66,705
               
               
                  1870
                  1,680,637
                  1,539,163
                  141,474
                  78,060
               
               
                  1880
                  1,978,301
                  1,834,123
                  144,178
                  80,456
               
               
                  1890
                  2,192,404
                  2,046,199
                  146,205
                  84,900
               
            
            From this table it can readily be seen that Indiana had a small foreign population, but of that
                    foreign population 
                  
                     54 Faust, The German Element in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , I, 455-456; Bernhard, Travels Through North America
                                during the Years 1825 and 182G, II, 106-123; Frederic A. Ogg (ed.), Personal Narrative of Travels in 
                           Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Ohio
                        , Indiana, 
                                    Kentucky
                                ; and of a Residence in the 
                                    Illinois
                                 Territory-.1817-1818 by Elias P. Ford-ham (
                                Cleveland
                            , 1906), 205-208; William Cobbett, A Year's Residence in
                                the 
                                    United States
                                 of America (
                                London
                            , 1819), 478-489; A Visit to North America and the English
                                Settlements in 
                                    Illinois
                                , with a Winter Residence at 
                                    Philadelphia
                                
                      by Adlard Welby, a reprint of the original edition, 
                                London
                            , 1821 in Reuben G. Thwaites (ed.), Early Western Travels,
                                1748-1840 (32 vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1904-1907), XII (1905), 260-267.
                  
                     55 The total for the figures listed is 985,818, but the nativity of
                            2,598 inhabitants was unknown.
               
                     the Germans constituted over fifty per cent. According to the
                    1870 Census only one county, 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , in that year had over twenty per cent Germans; three, Lake, Dubois, and LaPorte, had
                    between fifteen and twenty per cent; and four, 
                  Dearborn,
                            Ripley
               , Allen, and 
                        Franklin
                    , had between eleven and fourteen per cent; while the remaining eighty-four counties had
                    less than ten per cent. Of the four counties which had the highest percentage, two were located in
                    the extreme north and two in the extreme south. The county, however, which had the largest
                    percentage was in the southern part of the state. 
                        Lake County
                     in the extreme northern part of the state ranked second, while 
                        Dubois County
                    , which is of particular interest for this study, ranked third with 17.89 per cent
                    Germans.
            Just when the first Germans came to 
                        Dubois County
                     is doubtful. The 1820 Census of the 
                        United States
                    
               56 records ten families (Conrad, Hurst, Hase, Miller, Shack,
                    Wineinger) whose names indicate German origin; in 183057 fifteen families (Abel,
                    Conrad, Coonrod, Hurst, Lineus, Miller, Stutesman, Waggoner, Winkler)58 lived in 
                        Dubois County
                     whose names might lead one to believe that they were of German origin. Some of these
                    families may have migrated from other states, as one must not overlook the fact that many Germans
                    settled in other states before arriving in 
                        Dubois County
                    .
            Twelve Catholic families from Baden, 
                        Germany
                    , in 1836 chose 
                        Dubois County
                     for their future home and eleven entered land near 
                        Jasper
                    .59 During 1837 twenty-four more Catholic families arrived, in 1838
                    fourteen, in 1839 forty-six, and in 1840 eleven."60 If records were
                    available for all the Germans who settled in 
                        Dubois County
                     before 1850, there might be quite a list. A list of forty-one Germans who had arrived
                    before 1838 was recorded by George R. Wilson in one of 
                  
                     56 Records from the 
                                United States
                             Census for Indiana, 1820 (from Photostat Copies in the Indiana State Library), 
                                Dubois County
                            , II, 35-40.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 1830, IV, 121-126.
                  
                     58 The names were carefully checked by several residents of 
                                Dubois County
                            .
                  
                     59 John T. Melchoir, Leaves from the Early History of Saint
                            Joseph's Parish, I, 3, unpublished manuscript of 2 volumes; Tract Book, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     60 Melchoir, Leaves from the Early History of Saint Joseph's
                            Parish, I, 3-6.
               
                     his unpublished volumes on 
                        Dubois County
                    .61 The 1850 Census lists four families who had children born in
                    Indiana before 1836.62
            
            In the fall of 1849 Adolf Brandeis wrote a letter to his wife in which he mentioned in some detail
                    the life of a Catholic German village sixty-five miles cross country from 
                        Louisville
                    . Since the village he wrote about was Ferdinand, it may be assumed that quite a few
                    Germans had settled in 
                        Dubois County
                     before 1849. Although somewhat exaggerated, it tells us something about this German
                    settlement. Several paragraphs from the letter follow: 
                        Now let me tell you something about my life here, I am in a part of the country inhabited,
                            for a distance of about 60 to 80 miles, exclusively by Germans and since I left the
                            steamboat I have not heard a single word of English.
                        The place I am describing is a completely Catholic German village protected and governed by
                            the church that crowns the hilltop. In the evenings the men come into the village bars of
                            which there are three, to drink and talk. They cast lots or play domino to decide who is to
                            pay the reckoning for the beer; and as I always take part in the game and pay, and then
                            leave my beer, I have made many good friends.
                        But one of the main features of German life is lacking here and that is music. Moreover, I
                            have as yet seen few women, so that the whole reduces itself more or less to an improved
                            version of barroom life. …
                        To give you an idea where I am, I must tell you that I went from 
                                Louisville
                             on the boat to 
                                Troy
                             and then rode twenty miles inland. The cross country distance from 
                                Louisville
                             to here is sixty-five miles.63
                  
                    
                
            The earliest naturalization records available in the 
                        Dubois County
                     Courthouse began in 1853. These records indicated that sixty Germans who settled in 
                        Dubois County
                     arrived in the 
                        United States
                     before 1848. They were distributed over the years as follows:"64
            
            
               
                  1812— 1
                  1833— 1
                  1839— 4
                  1844— 8
               
               
                  1820— 1
                  1836— 2
                  1841— 3
                  1845— 8
               
               
                  1827— 1
                  1837— 2
                  1842— 4
                  1846— 8
               
               
                  1832— 1
                  1838— 2
                  1843— 4
                  1847—10
               
            
            
               
                  61 George R. Wilson, Historical Notes on 
                            Dubois County
                        , V, 193, unpublished manuscript of 23 volumes.
               
                  62 The Linecank and Nicum families were living in Indiana in 1830, the
                        Auglert family in 1834, and the Katterjohn family in 1836. Original Returns of Seventh Census,
                        1850, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana (microfilm in Indiana University Library).
               
                  63 Goldmark, Pilgrims of '48, pp. 221-222.
               
                  64 Naturalization Record of Intention, 
                            Dubois County
                        , Indiana, 1863-1869 and 1869-1910. (Only the head of the family is listed in the
                        record.)
            
            
            In the second period of nineteenth century German immigration, which covers the years from 1848 to
                    1865, three hundred and seventy Germans arrived in the 
                        United States
                     who later settled in 
                        Dubois County
                    . The number that arrived each year during this period is as follows65:
            
               
                  1848—14
                  1853—38
                  1858—15
                  1863— 2
               
               
                  1849— 9
                  1854—72
                  1859—10
                  1864—13
               
               
                  1850— 6
                  1855—25
                  1860—24
                  1865—22
               
               
                  1851— 9
                  1856—19
                  1861— 9
                   
               
               
                  1852—41
                  1857—37
                  1862— 5
                   
               
            
            During the last period of the nineteenth century, a total of 303 Germans emigrated to the 
                        United States
                     whose destination was 
                        Dubois County
                    . The distribution by years is as follows66:
            
               
                  1866—31
                  1875— 4
                  1884—15
                  1893— 2
               
               
                  1867—24
                  1876— 9
                  1885— 7
                  1894— 8
               
               
                  1868—10
                  1877— 4
                  1886— 7
                  1895— 2
               
               
                  1869—14
                  1878— 4
                  1887— 4
                  1896— 2
               
               
                  1870—17
                  1879— 2
                  1888— 5
                  1897— 3
               
               
                  1871— 5
                  1880— 9
                  1889— 6
                  1898— 2
               
               
                  1872—16
                  1881—20
                  1890— 5
                  1899— 0
               
               
                  1873—17
                  1882—15
                  1891— 2
                   
               
               
                  1874—11
                  1883—11
                  1892—10
                   
               
            
            A further analysis of the naturalization records shows that during the period from 1853 to 1869, May,
                    June, October, and November were the favored months to make the voyage to America, whereas between
                    1869 and 1910, May, September, and October were chosen to make the journey to the new homeland.
                    While some months were more favorable for the voyage across the ocean, a number of emigrants
                    apparently took advantage of the opportunity to sail to America when the occasion presented itself
                    regardless of the season of the year, and so there was some emigration every month of the year.
            The census records for 
                        Dubois County
                     show an increase and decrease of Germans somewhat similar to that of the 
                        United States
                     as a whole. Before considering the reasons which brought about these fluctuations it
                    might be well to take note of the following table:
            
               
                        65
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                        66
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            
               ELEMENTS OF DUBOIS COUNTY's POPULATION67
               
               
                  Year
                  Aggregate Population
                  Native
                  Foreign
                  German
               
               
                  1820
                  1,168
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  1830
                  1,778
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  1840
                  3,632
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  1850
                  6,321
                  4,699
                  1,622
                  1,603
               
               
                  1860
                  10,398
                  7,574
                  2,824
                  2,641
               
               
                  1870
                  12,597
                  10,136
                  2,461
                  2,264
               
               
                  1880
                  15,992
                  13,872
                  2,120
                  1,944
               
               
                  1890
                  20,253
                  18,484
                  1,769
                  1,663
               
            
            No records were available giving detailed information in regard to the nativity of the inhabitants of 
                        Dubois County
                    -prior to 1850. As can be seen from the table, about one-third of the inhabitants in
                    1850 and 1860 were of foreign birth, in 1870 one-fourth, in 1880 one-sixth, and in 1890
                    one-eleventh. Of the foreign element, the Germans constituted 98.8 per cent in 1850, 93.5 per cent
                    in 1860, 91.9 per cent in 1870, 91.6 per cent in 1880, and 94 per cent in 1890.
            Immigration after 1852 has been referred to as a stampede in which economic causes dominated.68 From the census records, it may be assumed that 
                        Dubois County
                     also became the home of some of these immigrants.
            The fact, however, cannot be overlooked that there was a decline in German immigration between 1861
                    and 1880. It is possible that the Civil War may have been responsible in part for this decline, but
                    this was an era of railroad building and the development of manufactures in 
                        Germany
                    . Because people were prosperous, they had less desire to emigrate.69
            
            The consciousness of the German Government concerning the protection of individuals and the rights of
                    the laborer may be regarded as an important factor to induce the Germans 
                  
                     67
                            Eleventh Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1890, Statistics of Population, VIII, Table 4, p. 17; Table 15, p.
                            409; Table 33, p. 621; Tenth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1880, Statistics of Population, I, Table XIV, 505; Ninth
                                Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1870, Statistics of Population, I, Table VII, 352; Original Returns
                            of Eighth Census, 1860, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana; Original Returns of Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     68 Stephenson, A History of American Immigration,
                            43.
                  
                     69 Turner, "German Immigration into the 
                                United States
                            ," 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Record Herald, September 4, 1901.
               
                     to remain at home, and to hinder them from seeking in other
                    lands greater prosperity.70 Then too, on the heels of the great financial crash
                    of 1873, which began with the so-called "Black Friday," emigration began to
                    decline until 1877 when it reached its minimum.71
            
            From 1881 to 1885 emigration increased. This period coincided with a period of prosperity in the 
                        United States
                    . The railroads had perfected their organization for opening the Western states, and the
                    steamship companies as well as railroads sent emigration agents to Europe. Since transportation
                    rates were low, even the poor people could take advantage of the opportunity to emigrate to
                        America.72 Because there was a large exodus, and the German colonial and
                    other associations feared that the emigrants might lose their German nationality and language, they
                    made an effort to direct them to 
                        Brazil
                    , Uruguay, or Paraguay.73
            
            The decrease in 1885 seems to indicate that either the economic conditions of 
                        Germany
                     had improved and the attractions of America had diminished, or that the new colonial
                    policy of Bismarck kept many wavering. The Prussian Government had adopted new measures to colonize
                    at home. The Eastern provinces of Prussia and Posen showed the highest number of emigrants, the
                    lowest degree of industry, and the worst farming conditions, although the soil was very fertile.
                    Upon investigation, it was discovered that it was impossible for the sons of German farmers to
                    become independent and own their homestead and farm because of the large manorial estates. The
                    people who were an asset emigrated and the less desirable class remained. The government, therefore,
                    purchased large estates and divided them. This made it possible for the small farmer to own his own
                    farm and engage in systematic farming where the rotation of crops was possible and financial returns
                    were profitable. In Leipzig the press was antagonistic to emigration and refused 
                  
                     70 "Emigration and Immigration," in House Executive Documents, 49 Cong., 2 Sess., no. 157, p. 31.
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., 181.
                  
                     72 Turner, "German Immigration into the 
                                United States
                            ," 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Record Herald, September 4, 1901.
                  
                     73 "Emigration and Immigration," in House Executive Documents, 49 Cong., 2 Sess., no. 157, p. 111.
               
                     to publish favorable reports which might tend to increase
                    emigration during this period.74
            
            It may be assumed that the decline on this side of the ocean during the last ten years of the
                    nineteenth century may be attributed to the financial depression of 1893, the dissatisfaction and
                    depression in the West, as well as the reduction of desirable public lands.75
            
            It is apparent, therefore, that when the workshops, shipyards, and factories in America were
                    operating to capacity, and when good crops and remunerative prices enabled the American farmer to
                    enjoy the luxuries of life, the emigration from 
                        Germany
                     was high, whereas in years of depression or stagnation of business in America
                    emigration invariably declined. The bad condition of the labor market in America had a direct effect
                    on emigration in that fewer prepaid tickets were sent to friends in 
                        Germany
                    .76
            
            In 
                        Germany
                    , no doubt, the progressive, industrial, and peaceful political policy of the German
                    Emperor carried considerable weight in the decline of emigration.77 The
                    settlement of Germans in 
                        Dubois County
                     as well as in the nation at large reflected these influences.
            
               
                  74
                        Ibid., 109, 197.
               
                  75 Turner, "German Immigration into the 
                            United States
                        ," 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Record Herald, September 4, 1901.
               
                  76 "Emigration and Immigration," in House
                            Executive Documents, 49 Cong., 2 Sess., no. 157, pp. 180-181.
               
                  77 "Special Consular Reports," in House
                            Miscellaneous Documents, 52 Cong., 1 Sess., no. 19 (serial no. 2974), 247.
            
         
         
         
            The Building of the Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad
            MARIE JOHNSTON
            
            Indiana and 
                        Michigan
                     early recognized the need for and the advantages of a railroad from northwestern 
                        Michigan
                     through Indiana to some point on the Ohio River. As early as 1845
                    a group of citizens in Grand Rapids began agitation for such a road to the south.1 Much interest was evidenced by other towns of southern 
                        Michigan
                     and northern Indiana, but no definite action resulted. By the middle fifties these
                    regions were served, or soon would be, by east and west routes furnishing transportation from 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                     to 
                  Detroit, Toledo, Pittsburgh, New York
               , and 
                        Philadelphia
                    .2 Although these routes made it possible for many local communities
                    to avail themselves of the larger markets, others lying between or beyond these transverse routes
                    found the existing railroads inaccessible as well as inconvenient for profitable marketing of their
                    bulky agricultural products.
            At the same time, 
                        Michigan
                    , with a population of about four hundred thousand and practically unsettled north of
                    Grand Rapids, saw streams of settlers pass her annually to go farther westward into
                            
                  Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    .3 The region above the four tiers of southern counties was too
                    difficult to reach. Then too, if reached, the poor transportation northward made life there
                    precarious, for food supplies and other necessities might become uncertain. At best, they would be
                    expensive. In the late fifties a barrel of salt bought for three dollars in Grand Rapids cost an
                    additional six dollars in Big Rapids, a point about sixty-five miles north.4
            
            In addition, there was no outlet for products from the region. Pine and hardwood forests extending
                    from Indiana northward were practically untouched. Lumbermen saw markets in 
                  Cincinnati, Boston
               , and other points where lumber 
                  
                     1 Albert Baxter, History of Grand Rapids (
                                New York
                            , 1891), 527.
                  
                     2 Joseph H. Colton, Traveler and Tourist's
                                Guide-Book … (
                                New York
                            , 1856), 31-33.
                  
                     3 Henry V. Poor and James Samuel, Report an the Grand
                                Rapids & Indiana Railroad Company and upon the Land Grant of the Company (
                                New York
                            , 1861), 12.
                  
                     4 Ceylon C. Fuller, "Pioneer Days in 
                                Mecosta County
                            ," Historical Collections … 
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer and Historical Society (
                                Lansing
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            , 1877-1929), XXX (1906), 40.
               
                     was needed for shipbuilding, furniture manufacturing, and
                    general construction work.5 Eyes in Indiana and elsewhere looked not only to the
                    forests but also to the gypsum and plaster to be found near Grand Rapids.6
            
            A revival of the earlier interest in a north-south Indiana-
                        Michigan
                     railroad flared in 1854 at 
                        Grand Rapids
                    , 
                        Sturgis
                    , 
                        Hartford City
                    , Indiana, and intermediate points.7 Early that year (January 18,
                    1854), a group of men met in 
                        Hartford City
                     to discuss the problem. At this meeting the Grand Rapids and Indiana Railway Company
                    was formed.8 The company stated its purpose to be the construction of a railroad
                    from 
                        Hartford City
                    , Indiana, to the 
                        Michigan
                    -Indiana state line in the direction of Sturgis. This route was to connect with the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Southern at 
                        Hartford City
                    , and thus furnish a road to 
                        Jeffersonville
                     or 
                        Louisville
                     on the Ohio River. The company planned to issue twenty-two hundred
                    shares of stock at twenty-five dollars per share.9 A southern 
                        Michigan
                     newspaper stated that the line of the road was to begin at 
                        Hartford City
                     and extend northward by way of 
                  Warren,
                            Huntington, Columbia
                (probably 
                        Columbia City
                    ), LaGrange, Albion, and Lima (Howe), Indiana, thence to 
                        Grand Rapids
                     by 
                        Sturgis
                    , 
                        Centerville
                    , and 
                  Kalamazoo, Michigan
               .10
            
            President Joseph Lomax and an engineer went over some of the ground that summer surveying, locating
                    part of the line, and making contacts with interested parties in northern Indiana and southern 
                        Michigan
                    .11 In late spring of 1855 (May 29), the Grand Rapids and Southern
                    Railroad Company was organized at 
                        Sturgis
                     with the same president and engineer 
                  
                     5
                            Fifth Annual Report of the President and Directors of the Grand Rapids
                                & Indiana Railroad Company (
                                Sturgis
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            , 1859), 21-22.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 25-27.
                  
                     7 Reprints of items from local newspapers concerning
                            citizens' meetings in these various localities may be found in the 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, Sentinel and the American Railroad
                                Journal for the spring of 1854. The number to be found makes it impractical to cite
                            each one separately.
                  
                     8 Dwight Goss, History of Grand Rapids and Its
                            Industries, (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1906), I, 620.
                  
                     9
                            American Railroad Journal (
                                New York
                            , 1832-1886), XXVII (July 1, 1854), 413.
                  
                     10
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, Sentinel, March 18, 1854, reprinted a long article
                            on the proposed project from the 
                        Centerville, Michigan
                     ,
                                Chronicle.
                  
                  
                     11 "Joseph Lomax to J. D. Clement, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , January 25, 1911," with enclosure, in Historical
                                Collections … 
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer and Historical Society, XXXVIII (1912), 31.
               
                     as the Indiana company.12 Its avowed
                    purpose was to build a railroad from Grand Rapids south to the state line.
            During the summer the two companies consolidated under the laws of Indiana and 
                        Michigan
                     with the declared purpose of building a railroad from the Straits of Mackinac to
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               .13 The new company, the Grand Rapids and
                    Indiana Railroad Company, took over the corporate title, books, and seal of the first company, as
                    well as its officials. President Lomax in his report of 1859 stated that the financial plan was to
                    secure subscriptions sufficient to prepare the road for iron and then issue stock on the roadbed in
                    order to raise funds for construction materials and rolling stock.14
            
            Little doubt exists but that the merger was effected for the express purpose of securing land-grant
                    aid for the construction of the proposed railroad. By 1856 the intense sectional opposition to
                    railroad land grants had abated somewhat. This was due to several reasons. By this time the growing
                    West had sufficient power in Congress, especially in the Senate, to secure governmental aid for
                    internal improvements. Then too, Eastern capitalists were interested in railroad projects and
                    exerted considerable pressure on the Eastern congressmen for the furtherance of railroad building.
                    This led to a coalition of the West and the East in opposition to the South.15
                    On June 3, 1856, the thirty-fourth Congress passed a bill granting about 14,559,000 acres of land to
                    the states of 
                  Alabama, Florida, Iowa, Michigan, Mississippi, Minnesota
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    .16 Of this amount the state of 
                        Michigan
                     was allotted more than 3,000,000 acres. Among the various grants to this state was one
                    designated specifically for the construction of a railroad "from Grand Rapids to some point
                    on or near Traverse Bay.17 The area 
                  
                     12
                            Fifth Annual Report, 5-6.
                  
                            13
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 43.
                  
                     15 John B. Sanborn, "Congressional Grants of Land in Aid of
                            Railroads," in Bulletin of the University of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , Economics, Political Science, and History Series (2 vols.,
                                    
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     , 1894-1899), II (1899), 315-317.
                  
                     16 Lewis H. Haney, "A Congressional History of Railways in
                            the 
                                United States
                            ," in Bulletin of the University of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , Economics and Political Science Series (9 vols.,
                                    
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     , 1904-1918), VI (1910), 18.
                  
                     17
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, XI, 21.
               
                     was estimated at 1,160,000 acres and the value at
                        $3,500,000.18
            
            The terms of the Congressional act provided that every odd numbered section of land within six miles
                    of the line of the road should be granted to the state for the construction of the specified
                    railroad. In case sufficient lands were not available within these limits, other odd numbered
                    sections might be selected as distant as fifteen miles from the line of the road. Further, it was
                    provided that the lands should be disposed of by the state in portions of 120 sections, and that
                    upon the governor's certification to the Secretary of Interior "that any twenty
                    continuous miles [of railroad] is completed, … another quantity not to exceed 120
                    sections may be sold. …" Still further, it provided that failure of any company
                    to complete its project within ten years would constitute forfeiture of the grant.
            It was necessary for the next legislature of 
                        Michigan
                     to accept or reject the grants, pass legislation concerning their usage, and confer
                    them upon the particular railroad companies. In anticipation, two companies, one at 
                        Grand Rapids
                     and another at 
                        Kalamazoo
                    , were formed, both of which competed with the Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad Company
                    for the grant providing for the Grand Rapids to Traverse Bay route.19
                    Competition was keen and bitter at the capital, and for a time it looked as if the Grand Rapids and
                    Northern Railroad Company would win. Before the passage of the bill, February 14, 1857, however,
                    that name was struck from it and the name Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad Company inserted.
            A few days later (February 25) the stockholders and directors of the Grand Rapids and Indiana
                    Railroad Company accepted the land, franchises, rights, powers, and privileges conferred by the act
                    of the legislature of 
                        Michigan
                    .20 In the Articles of Agreement between the state of 
                        Michigan
                     and the railroad company it was stated that by December 1, 1860, the first twenty
                    continuous miles of the road should be completed and at least twenty miles each year thereafter, and
                    further, that the entire line should be completed by November 15, 1864.21 By the
                    beginning of 1858 all necessary reports 
                  
                     18
                            American Railroad Journal, XXIX (December 6, 1856), 779.
                  
                     19 Goss, History of Grand Rapids, 620.
                  
                     20
                            Fifth Annual Report, 29-31.
                  
                     21
                            Acts of the Legislature of the State of 
                                    Michigan
                                
                      … 1857 (Lansing, 1857), 347-349, 352.
               
                     and papers had been filed, approved, and accepted by Governor
                    Kinsley S. Bingham, the Secretary of the State of 
                        Michigan
                    , and the Public Land Commissioner in 
                        Washington
                    .
            The line of road as approved extended from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     north to the Straits of Mackinac, a distance of three hundred fifty miles, of which
                    about fifty miles were in Indiana and three hundred in 
                        Michigan
                    .22 Its connection with the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Southern at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     would attain the desired Ohio River terminus, and yet be a shorter
                    route than that first contemplated. When completed the road would intersect or connect with the
                    chief railroad arteries of the Midwest and give contacts with all the larger markets of the country.
                    The route would intersect the 
                        Detroit
                     and Milwaukee at 
                        Grand Rapids
                    , the 
                        Michigan
                     Central at 
                        Kalamazoo
                    , the 
                        Michigan
                     Southern at 
                        Sturgis
                    , the Northern Indiana Air Line at 
                        Kendallville
                    , and the 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     as well as the 
                  Toledo, Wabash
                and Western at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .
            Although the officials and friends of the Grand Rapids and Indiana Company had labored earnestly and
                    furiously for the bestowal of the land grant, they soon discovered that it was not a panacea for all
                    ills. The most serious obstacle at the moment was a depleted treasury. Poor harvests and the current
                    monetary panic made its immediate replenishment unlikely. This would interfere with the original
                    plan to build the southern division, that from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to Grand Rapids, by local subscription. The state's decision that none of the
                    grant was to be patented to the company until after the completion of twenty continuous miles of
                    railroad was an unexpected and stupefying blow, for the intention had been to utilize the first one
                    hundred twenty sections to build the first twenty miles of the land grant part of the road.23 Thereupon, for some reason not disclosed by the reports, the company decided
                    to take advantage of the 
                        Michigan
                     and Indiana laws which permitted merging companies to fix the value of their stock by
                    mutual agreement. Two new companies, the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Grand Rapids and the Grand Rapids and Mackinac, were formed.24
                    Upon their merger with the Grand Rapids and Indiana Company, 2,160 
                  
                     22
                            Fifth Annual Report, 18-24.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 44.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 6.
               
                     shares of "Mackinac stock," on which only ten
                    per cent was paid, came into existence.25
            
            During the next ten years, activity, as far as construction work was concerned, was scattered and
                    ineffectual. Local contractors graded and grubbed portions of the line, and farmers piled heaps of
                    white oak ties along the right of way. Sometimes local subscriptions or bonds paid for this, but
                    often it was unpaid. By 1859, 463,271 acres of the grant land, with an estimated value of
                    $7-$15 per acre, had been selected and certified.26 In the
                    same year the accountant listed the total assets of the company as $404,616.82.27 Upon examination it is disclosed that seventy-five per cent of this amount
                    was unpaid subscriptions to capital stock, while the rest consisted of bills receivable, value of
                    real estate taken on subscription, and $428.69 in cash! This last item would pay for one
                    mile of grubbing and clearing and 143 ties, or one mile of fencing and nineteen cattle guards, at
                    the prevailing rates of the day.28 The engineer estimated the per mile cost at
                    about $12,500 to $15,000.
            By 1860 expenditures for right of way totaled approximately $10,000, and donations of
                    equal value had been made.29 Very little had been paid out for depot grounds
                    because donations valued at several thousand dollars had been received for that purpose. It was
                    thought that with proper management no more than $10,000 need be spent to secure the
                    remainder of land for the two purposes.
            During this period of American railroad building, promoters sooner or later turned to 
                        England
                     for financial aid. The Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad Company was no exception. In
                    1861 James Samuel, an English engineer representing financial interests in 
                        England
                    , and Henry V. Poor, an American railroad authority, were asked to come to 
                        Michigan
                     to prepare a report on the road and the land grant.30 A 
                  
                     25 Baxter, History of Grand Rapids, 531.
                  
                     26
                            Fifth Annual Report, 33.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 7.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 8-14.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 18. The report includes expenditures and donations for both
                            purposes to that date.
                  
                     30 "Joseph Lomax to J. D. Clement, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , January 25, 1911," with enclosure, in Historical
                                Collections … 
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer and Historical Society, XXXVIII, 31.
               
                     very detailed and interesting report resulted.31 Apparently every source of information was tapped. People of varied occupations and
                    statistical reports of all kinds were consulted. They stated that the cost would average
                    $17,500 per mile, with the division between 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Kendallville being most expensive because of the lack of gravel near the right of
                    way. They believed, however, that the entire 350 miles of road offered no engineering difficulties
                    because of the uniform surface, good drainage, and easy approaches to the streams. It was advised
                    that the twenty miles from Grand Rapids to Cedar Springs be built first in order to receive one
                    hundred twenty sections of the land grant, and then that the road from Grand Rapids to 
                        Kalamazoo
                     be built so as to gain access to east and west traffic. It was thought the earnings
                    from this could be applied on another section. Since the 182.5 miles north of Grand Rapids were
                    secured by the grant, some attention was given to the characteristics of this land. It was said to
                    be a forest region of isolated settlements, but having a climate superior to any neighboring state.
                    Here a plumper wheat of heavy yield was produced. Here, due to the uniform winter temperatures,
                    rarely under 15°F. below zero, root crops could remain in the ground all winter and
                    reseed the fields the next year. It was stated that 80,000,000 feet of lumber were cut on the
                    Muskegon River annually and floated to market at a loss, whereas a railroad which would furnish more
                    satisfactory transportation would encourage the establishment of lumber camps and sawmills. Thus a
                    lucrative business in lumber and necessities for the camps and mills would result. Since the
                    government lands were fast disappearing from market, the railroad company was urged to get its lands
                    on the market as speedily as possible and to choose those lying nearest Lake
                    Michigan. In conclusion, it was believed the completion of the road was merely a matter
                    of manpower and money, and these gentlemen saw no reason why it could not be completed in two and a
                    half years, under wise financial management.
            Before contacts and contracts could be made with interested Englishmen, the first Battle of Bull Run
                    occurred. Mr. Samuel, stating that he believed the 
                        United States
                     had 
                  
                     31 Poor and Samuel, Report on the Grand Rapids &
                                Indiana Railroad Company, 1-24. All material for the paragraph was taken from this
                            much more detailed report.
               
                     no government, departed for 
                        England
                    , taking with him all hope of aid from that quarter.32
            
            The war gave railroad building a temporary setback. Railroad iron was very expensive, if obtainable.
                    Labor too, was scarce and high. Money was not plentiful. During this period Hugh McAfee, a 
                        Fort Wayne
                     contractor, worked on the line from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to Lima (Howe), preparing it for the iron; and Morse and Morse worked on the twenty
                    miles north of Grand Rapids.33 As neither company was able to inject much
                    capital into the work, and financial aid from the railroad company was uncertain and intermittent,
                    little was accomplished.
            In 1864, realizing that the time limit on the land grant was practically at on end, the officials of
                    the road bestirred themselves sufficiently to ask for an extension of time. At the same time certain
                    men in Indiana, especially at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , LaGrange, and Lima (Howe), who were interested in the road besought the fortieth
                    Congress for an extension of the land grant to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Such a bill was introduced in Congress by Thomas A. Hendricks of Indiana and was
                    passed, but a provision of the act was refusal to extend the time limit.34 This
                    act provided that the grant should be extended to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     if any surplus of the grant lands remained after the original line north of Grand
                    Rapids was completed. It further provided that sixty sections of land should be patented upon the
                    completion of each ten continuous miles of railroad, and that this land should lie within twenty
                    miles of the line of the road.35 The next year, 1865, Congress granted an
                    eight-year time extension which set the completion date as January 1, 1874.36
            
            During 1865, 1866, and 1867, interest in the road reached such a low ebb that there was insufficient
                    representation of the stockholders to elect officers. Nothing was accomplished, so no reports were
                    prepared. Probably internal dissension 
                  
                     32 "Joseph Lomax to J. D. Clement, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , January 25, 1911," with enclosure, in Historical
                                Collections … 
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer and Historical Society, XXXVIII, 32.
                  
                     33
                            Annual Report of the President and Directors to the Stockholders of the Grand
                                Rapids & Indiana Railroad Company (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1868), 13.
                  
                     34
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, XIII, 119-120.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, Sentinel, June 18, 1864, contains a letter from
                            Hon. Joseph K. Edgerton to the editors, which tells of the extension of the grant.
                  
                     36
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, XIII, 530.
               
                     and external criticism of his policies and the failure to
                    complete even one mile of railroad in ten years led Mr. Lomax to resign as president in 1866.37 Somewhat reluctantly Mr. Samuel Hanna served in that capacity a few months
                    and made plans for pushing the completion of the road. Upon his death in June of that year, Mr.
                    Joseph K. Edgerton of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , at the request of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad Company, became president. From this time on 
                        Fort Wayne
                     men, prominent in railroad circles, took an active interest and exerted much effort in
                    behalf of the road.38 Among these were Charles Gorham, Pliny Hoagland, Franklin
                    P. Randall, Hugh and Henry McAfee, William Fleming, Jesse L. Williams, and Stephen B. Bond.
            President Edgerton found his position a difficult one. The company had no credit.39 It was encumbered with more than $300,000 capital stock, most of which was held
                    by a few persons and which represented no value put into the road. A floating debt of
                    $500,000 was outstanding, and a former president claimed to hold $270,000 of
                    the company's bonds as security on $20,000-$25,000 due him. The bond
                    situation was deplorable. Bonds issued January 1, 1860, had netted the company less than twenty-five
                    cents on the dollar. In addition, an unwarranted bond issue made by a 
                        New York
                     firm in 1861 was in the hands of a few persons who were pressing the company.
                    Unfortunately, it was impossible to get the directors and stockholders to agree to recall both of
                    these and make a new bond issue. Many persons, believing that the road would never be built, did not
                    pay their subscriptions. Towns and townships refused to make their bonds available for such an
                    uncertain project. Deeds and records for grounds and right of way were lost or destroyed, and
                    controversies and injunctions resulted in 
                        Kendallville
                    , 
                        Kalamazoo
                    , and Grand Rapids. Ties and lumber had rotted, and a rival railroad was said to have
                    carried away 7,000 ties.
            In August, 1867, Mr. Edgerton succeeded in making a construction contract with Mancel Talcott and
                    Associates 
                  
                     37 "Joseph Lomax to J. D. Clement, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , January 25, 1911," with enclosure, in Historical
                                Collections … 
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer and Historical Society, XXXVIII, 32-33.
                  
                     38 See official and director personnels as listed in all subsequent
                            reports of the Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad Company.
                  
                     39 See Annual Report to Stockholders (1868), 1-13,
                            for a more detailed financial report than could be given in a paper of this scope.
               
                     for the construction of two hundred miles of road north of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .40 All previous contracts were assumed by this company as
                    subcontracts. The new company, comprised of Edward B. Talcott, Mancel Talcott, and Horace Singer of 
                        Chicago
                     and A. P. Edgerton, Stephen B. Bond, and William Fleming of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , agreed to advance $80,000 on the work; build bridges and buildings; prepare
                    two hundred miles of roadbed; complete twenty miles of the road north of Grand Rapids by January 1,
                    1868; and finish the entire mileage by December 1, 1869. The company was to operate the road, but
                    return 40 per cent of the earnings to the railroad company, which in turn, was to pay
                    $10,000 per mile by July 1, 1868, of which amount 60 per cent was to be cash, 30 per cent
                    mortgage bonds, and ten per cent stock at par. In addition, the railroad company was to furnish and
                    deliver iron rails, chairs, spikes, and equipment. It was hoped this arrangement would bolster the
                    credit of the road so a new bond issue could be negotiated, as well as bring in the municipal bonds
                    of 
                        Grand Rapids
                     and 
                        Kalamazoo
                    . When the time came to furnish the iron, however, it had to be purchased on the
                    personal credit of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Indiana friends, and was paid for by the bonds of the City of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .41 On December 23, 1867, almost fourteen years after the
                    organization of the original Grand Rapids and Indiana Railway Company, the first twenty-mile
                    portion, that from Grand Rapids to Cedar Springs, was finished.42
            
            In the 1868 report to the stockholders, the first mention of equipment is made. Two engines (wood
                    burners), one passenger coach, one baggage car, six new box cars, twenty-four flat cars, and five
                    hand cars are listed. Upon closer examination of the report it will be seen that all except the two
                    engines, four flat cars, and the five hand cars had been lent by the 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     Railroad. This loan came about when the Grand Rapids and Indiana Company, driven by
                    necessity, contacted intersection roads for aid. For a time it seemed certain that the 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Company would give substantial assistance, but at the meeting of the officials in 
                        New York
                    , H. H. Emmons, counsel for the 
                        Michigan
                     Central, gave such an unfavorable report of 
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 13-18.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 7.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 6.
               
                     the condition of the Grand Rapids and Indiana project that the
                    interest of the 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Company cooled, and no financial aid was forthcoming at the time.43
            
            After completion of the section to Cedar Springs, effort was concentrated on the line between 
                        Grand Rapids
                     and 
                        Kalamazoo
                    , as it was believed it would have considerable earning power, would satisfy the second
                    twenty-mile stipulation, and make available about $233,000 in city and township bonds
                    which could be utilized on no other portion of the road.44 In addition, a rival
                    company, known as the "Gardner group" and backed by the 
                        Michigan
                     Central, was building a road between the two points by way of Allegan. It was desirable
                    to reach Grand Rapids before it did. In December, 1868, with only four miles of track laid, work was
                    suspended because of lack of funds.
            At this, suits and injunctions sprang up on every hand.45 One suit brought by
                    creditors, but supposedly instigated by the Gardner interests, asked receivership and dissolvement
                    of the company. Payment of a $30,000 judgment ended it, but the officials saw that
                    protective steps must be taken. Accordingly, suits were brought by an 1860 mortgage bondholder,
                    William Fleming of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , in the 
                        United States
                     Courts of western 
                        Michigan
                     and Indiana, and Jesse L. Williams of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , an experienced canal and railroad builder, was appointed receiver, in which capacity
                    he served for more than two years.
            Early in January, 1868, a concurrent resolution asking that "the Attorney General be
                    requested to investigate and ascertain the corporate right" of the Grand Rapids and Indiana
                    Railroad Company was introduced in the 
                        Michigan
                     Legislature.46 As a result, the Attorney General started suit to
                    ascertain the solvency of the company. Soon after, a joint resolution requested that the land,
                    privileges, and franchises heretofore held by the Grand Rapids and Indiana Company be granted to the 
                        Michigan
                     Northern Railroad Company.47 Requests favoring the resolution and
                    protests against unfriendly 
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., 16-17.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 7.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., 11-13.
                  
                     46
                            Journal of the Senate of the State of 
                                    Michigan
                                
                      (2 vols., Lansing, 1869), I, 280.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., 433.
               
                     action toward the Grand Rapids and Indiana poured into the
                    legislature. The matter was referred to the Railroad and Judiciary Committee, which held a hearing.
                    This committee reported that 2,336 persons had asked for a transfer of the land grant and 3,375 had
                    protested against any legislation unfriendly to the Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad Company.
                    Further, it asked for legislation: (1) to confirm lands to the company for the road already built;
                    (2) to provide for construction of twenty miles north of Cedar Springs by July 1, 1869, and the
                    completion of an additional twenty miles north by January 1, 1871; (3) to provide for completion of
                    at least twenty consecutive miles yearly thereafter; (4) to provide that with failure to comply with
                    clauses (1) and (2) the undisposed lands should be granted to another company.48
                    These clauses were the embodiment of a bill which passed March 17, 1869.49
            
            The officials of the road were stunned by the provision that the twenty miles north of Cedar Springs
                    must be finished by July 1, 1869. No work had been done on that section, which was an unbroken
                    forest. Snow lay on the gound until late, and water from the spring thaw drained away slowly. A
                    smallpox epidemic in Cedar Springs was a further hindrance. It was necessary to engage laborers,
                    collect materials, and arrange finances immediately. For months 4,500 gross tons of English rails,
                    ordered for the road south of Grand Rapids, had been in 
                        Detroit
                    , and now sufficient capital was raised by a preferred lien on the company's
                    assets to have them delivered.50 Beginning on April 7, eight hundred men worked
                    on the project.51 On June 22, the twenty miles were finished.52 This is said to have been the most rapid railroad building in the 
                        United States
                     to that date. Furthermore, the company was able that spring to reach a settlement with
                    Mr. Lomax who held several hundred thousand dollars' worth 
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., 964-969.
                  
                     49
                            Acts of The Legislature of the State of 
                                    Michigan
                                
                      … 1869 (3 vols., Lansing, 1869), I, 55-58.
                  
                     50
                            Annual Report of the President and Directors to the Stock-holders of the Grand
                                Rapids & Indiana Railroad Company (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1869), 15, gives a picture of the difficulties faced by the officials.
                  
                     51
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, Daily Gazette, May 12, 1869, reprinted an article
                            from the 
                                Grand Rapids
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            , Eagle, giving this information.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., June 22, 1869, contains as front page news the telegram Mr.
                            Williams sent to Mr. Edgerton stating that the last rail had been laid at five
                            o'clock the preceding evening.
               
                     of 1860 and 1861 mortgage bonds, certificates of capital stock,
                    and most of the "Mackinac stock," and to reduce the debt by applying the proceeds
                    of the municipal bonds of 
                        Grand Rapids
                    , 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and other towns.53
            
            On May 1, 1869, a construction contract was made with the Continental Improvement Company.54 This company was organized in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     with capital stock of $2,000,000 for the purpose of constructing the Grand
                    Rapids and Indiana Railroad. It was subsequently secured by the 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     Railroad Company, which in turn was secured by the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad Company. The agreement was that the railroad company was to furnish right of
                    way, depot grounds, material, equipment, assets applicable to construction, grant lands, and as soon
                    as possible issue $8,000,000 in first mortgage bonds and $2,800,000 in capital
                        stock.55 On the other hand, the construction company was to take over
                    certain specified debts, construct a first class railroad from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to Little Traverse Bay by January 1, 1874, guarantee interest on the first mortgage
                    bonds, maintain and operate the railroad, and receive its revenues until completion. Charles Gorham
                    of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , an experienced railroad builder, was superintendent of the company. The end of a long
                    and weary struggle seemed to be in sight. From that time, the annual reports are more business-like
                    and the financial pressure appears to lessen. True, some communities felt that their interests and
                    investments had been sacrificed by the contract so that "Eastern sharks" could get
                    their hands on the land grant, but on the whole, the cities and towns along the road were pleased
                    and hoped for an early completion of the road.56 Henceforth the building
                    progressed, and new sections were opened every few months.57 Trains were
                    operated over the finished portions 
                  
                     53
                            Annual Report to the Stockholders (1869), 28.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., 17-25.
                  
                     55 See Contract between Grand Rapids & Indiana
                                Railroad Company and Continental Improvement Company (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1870), 1-45.
                  
                     56 See American Railroad Journal, 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Indiana, Daily Gazette, and other local newspapers for
                            1869-1870 to gain a more complete conception of the varying attitudes.
                  
                     57
                            Annual Report of the Commissioner of Railroads in 
                                    Michigan
                                
                      (Lansing, 1882), 211-226, gives the following dates for completion of
                            the various sections: 
                        
                           
                              
                                            Fort Wayne
                                         to Sturgis
                           June, 1870
                        
                        
                           Sturgis to 
                                            Kalamazoo
                                        
                           
                           August, 1870
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                            Kalamazoo
                                         to Grand Rapids
                           October, 1870
                        
                     
                  
               
                     of the road, and considerable earnings were reported.58
            
            The relation of eastern railroad men to the Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad focused the attention
                    of adjacent communities upon the project. The following newspaper excerpts perhaps reflects the
                    spirit of the times and the interest of the general public: 
                        This great work of internal improvement is designed ultimately to form a prominent link in
                            the chain of intercommunication with 
                                China
                             and the East Indies generally through the short route of the Northern Pacific
                            Railroad.
                        Its immediate use is to open to our markets the rich agriculture products of the garden state
                            of the West, its vast stores of pines and other lumbers, its stores of plaster and even the
                            immense resources of iron and copper will be rendered more valuable and available for our
                            purposes. …59
                  
                    
                
            The Continental Improvement Company, feeling that the interests of the road would be furthered by
                    opening up its unimproved lands, instituted a vigorous selling campaign. In the summer of 1870, Dr.
                    J. P. Tustin, a Grand Rapids clergyman, was sent to "Scandinavia" for the purpose
                    of promoting emigration to northwestern 
                        Michigan
                    .60 Sixty Norwegian men, whose families were to follow within the
                    year, returned with him. As the road progressed northward new villages, counties, and farms were
                        established.61 By June 30, 1873, the gross receipts from the land grant
                    amounted to almost $1,500,000, and 841,326 acres had been certified 
                  
                            
                        
                           Grand Rapids to Cedar Springs
                           December, 1867
                        
                        
                           Cedar Springs to Morley
                           June, 1869
                        
                        
                           Morley to 
                                            Paris
                                        
                           
                           August, 1870
                        
                        
                           
                              
                                            Paris
                                         to Cadillac
                           December, 1871
                        
                        
                           Cadillac to Fyfe Lake
                           September, 1872
                        
                        
                           Fyfe Lake to Petoskey
                           December, 1873
                        
                        
                           Petoskey to Bay View
                           —, 1876
                        
                     
                        
                  
                     58
                            Annual Report of the President and Directors to the Stockholders of the Grand
                                Rapids & Indiana Railroad Company (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1871), 20, contains a statement of the year's earnings: 
                        
                           From passengers
                           $213,401.92
                        
                        
                           From freight
                           237,474.22
                        
                        
                           From miscellaneous
                           16,143.75
                        
                        
                           Total
                           $467,019.89
                        
                     
                  
                  
                     59
                            American Railroad Journal, XLIII (November 5, 1870), 1260-1261, contains a
                            long article copied from a current issue of the 
                                Pittsburgh
                            
                            Chronicle, of which this is a portion.
                  
                            60
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     61 Baxter, History of Grand Rapids, 534, and a study
                            of the Auditor General's Reports for 1871 substantiate
                        this.
               
                     to the company.62 According to Fisher, this
                    land was sold to actual settlers at an average price of twelve dollars per acre, which was the
                    highest average price paid for grant lands in America.63
            
            At the annual meeting of the directors and stockholders in 1871, a vote showed 602 shares opposed to
                    and 9,987 shares in favor of leasing the soon to be completed 
                  Fort
                            Wayne, Richmond
                and 
                        Cincinnati
                     Railroad, a ninety-one mile section from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Richmond
                    .64 In addition, it was voted to help equip and operate, as soon as
                    completed, the 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Richmond
                     Railroad then under construction by the 
                  Cincinnati, Hamilton
                and 
                        Richmond
                     Railroad Company.65 In the same year the twenty-six mile line from
                    Walton Junction to Traverse City was leased.66 The company now had a lake and
                        Ohio River outlet. By June, 1873, the total construction cost of the 350
                    mile main line was stated as $9,680,807.43, which brought the per mile cost to
                    approximately $29,000 instead of the engineer's estimated cost of
                    $12,000-$15,000 per mile.67 By December, 1873, the entire
                    road from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to Petoskey was completed, and twenty years after the first organization meeting in 
                        Hartford City
                    , the Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad Company took over the management and operation
                    of the railroad.68
            
            
               
                  62 Henry V. Poor (comp.), Manual of the Railroads of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (50 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1868-1917), VIII (1875), 609-611.
               
                  63 Earnest B. Fisher, History of 
                                Grand Rapids
                             and 
                                Kent County
                            , 
                                Michigan
                            
                   (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        ), I, 554.
               
                  64
                        Annual Report to the Stockholders (1871), 1.
               
                  65
                        Ibid., 16.
               
                  66 Poor, Manual of the Railroads of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , VII (1874), 154.
               
                  67 Poor, Manual of the Railroads of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , VIII (1875), 609-611.
               
                  68 Baxter, History of Grand Rapids, 534.
            
         
         
         
            Glimpses of Civil War 
                        Newburgh
                    
            
            AN ACCOUNT OF ELIZA BETHELL WARREN's GIRLHOOD IN NEWBURGH, INDIANA, 1855-18701
            
            Edited ADAH JACKSON
            
            The old Bethell house stands fronting the river at 
                        Newburgh
                    , Indiana, its ivy-covered walls and sloping gray roof showing through the scraggly lace
                    of cypress trees. For nearly a century it has been a landmark for rivermen. Marking the boundary
                    between North and South, it is one of the few fine old houses remaining whose story is interwoven
                    with the history of southern Indiana.
            Colonel Thomas Floyd Bethell built the house in 1855. His daughter, Mrs. Eliza Bethell Warren,2- whose home it is, was born on the site, then her grandmother's home,
                    ten years before the Civil War. A woman of remarkable mental faculty and character, she recalls her
                    girlhood under its roof and many stirring events of Civil War days in the village of 
                        Newburgh
                     itself.
            
               
                        Newburgh
                     was then a thriving port of river trade. Her wharves were stacked with the wealth of
                    back country produce bound for 
                        New Orleans
                     or for the eastern seaboard by way of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . The steamboats and barges that plied the 
                        Ohio
                     brought the world to her door. Gentlemen of fortune walked her streets and eyed the
                    prosperous houses of her merchants on the sloping terraces. Vagabonds loafed on her docks and told
                    their tall stories of men and cities. Settlers from the wooded regions to the east and from the
                    fertile rolling lands to the north brought their produce to the waterfront in lumbering wagons and
                    oxcarts and carried away life's necessities in trade. Manufactured goods from the East
                    included luxuries as well as domestic commodities; metropolitan fashions changed with every passing
                    boat. It was an era of prosperity and general well-being along the river, but the breath of change
                    was in the air. The slavery question was creating strong regional prejudices.
            Eliza Bethell grew up in this colorful environment, and it made a deep and lasting impression. The
                    doors of the 
                  
                     1 The contents of this article were related by Eliza Bethell Warren to
                            Adah Jackson.
                  
                     2 Mrs. Warren celebrated her ninety-third birthday November 23,
                        1944.
               
                     Bethell house were always open to passing travelers. Many of
                    them were people of note, for Colonel Bethell had served in the Indiana State Legislature and
                    participated in the Mexican War as captain of Company I of the Sixteenth Regiment of Indiana
                    Infantry.
            Thomas Floyd Bethell, one of Indiana's pioneer sons, was born at 
                        French Lick
                    , August 3, 1816. He was the eldest son of Cloud and Rachel Floyd Bethell and a direct
                    descendant of Samson Bethell, the first of the Bethells who had settled in 
                        South Carolina
                     some time before the Revolution, where he had married Mary Cantrell in 1762.
            The events leading up to the migration of the Bethells to Indiana in the year 1815 are not without
                    historical significance. Mrs. Warren learned of these from Rachel Floyd Bethell, her grandmother,
                    who was a member of her son's household until her death in 1874.
            Rachel Floyd was the seventh child of Caleb and Nancy Mainard Floyd of 
                        Virginia
                    . Caleb was a 
                        Quaker
                    , though his wife Nancy, having inherited the Mainard plantation, was a slaveholder in
                    her own right. At his wife's death, Caleb Floyd gave the slaves their freedom, but none of
                    them would leave the plantation where they had known only kindness and security.
            Rachel was a favorite of her father and had inherited his liberty-loving principles. When she met
                    young Cloud Bethell, he was in uniform, a soldier of the War of 1812, but he confessed that he was
                    preparing himself for the Baptist ministry. Their courtship was uninterrupted, and in the summer of
                    1815 they were married. Having decided to establish their home on free soil, they set out on their
                    wedding day for the Indiana wilderness. They were prepared for an arduous journey and took with them
                    no more than they could carry in their saddle bags. At the last moment, the bride's negro
                    mammy begged to go with the young couple and was finally given consent. She loaded her saddle horse
                    with a featherbed, which was weighted at opposite corners with smoothing irons. When questioned
                    about her odd pack, the old woman vowed that her mistress would never sleep on corn shucks nor go
                    about her daily tasks in unironed clothing as long as the Lord spared her as a servant.
            The smoothing irons never grew cold on that Indiana frontier, Rachel related of those first hard
                    years. When  they were not in use in her own household, they
                    were being loaned to neighbors. They were the first smoothing irons in the little settlement of
                    French Lick, where she and Cloud Bethell had decided to locate.
            It was in this rude 
                        Orange County
                     home that Thomas Bethell was born in the year that Indiana came into her statehood.
                    There were six boys besides Thomas: Jonathan, who died in youth, 
                  Chester, Warren
               , Union, Tilman, and
                    Frank, as well as a daughter, Eliza. And "Miss Rachel's" faithful servant
                    was with her beloved mistress at the birth of all her children.
            Cloud Bethell died in 1843, and his son Thomas took his place as head of the family. The
                        Ohio River beckoned to him, and he realized that it offered more
                    opportunities for the family of boys than the landlocked region of their 
                        Orange County
                     home. Shortly afterwards he moved his mother, brothers, and sister Eliza to the
                    promising river village of 
                        Newburgh
                     on the 
                        Ohio
                    , which had been founded as Sprinkles-burgh by John Sprinkles around the year 1803.
            
               
                        Newburgh
                     was situated advantageously midway between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and Cairo. It was well above flood. The settlers thereabouts were industrious and
                    thrifty, and early accounts credit 
                        Newburgh
                    's wharves as being the busiest between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                    . The principal products of that part of the country were pork, hominy, tobacco, ginseng
                    root, beeswax, and feathers.
            After Thomas Bethell had located his mother and her family in a comfortable house overlooking the
                    river, he was off to the Mexican War. He was thirty years of age. At twenty-four he had been
                    commissioned colonel of the Thirty-fourth Regiment of Indiana Militia by Governor Samuel Bigger.3 Bethell was made Captain of a company of Indiana volunteers, later registered
                    as Company I, Sixteenth Infantry,4 commanded by Colonel John Tibbatts. His
                    brother, Chester Bethell, was one of the company. They joined a regiment from 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , enroute to the far away battlefield by way of the Ohio
                        River. Measles broke out on the boat going down, and a third of Bethell's
                    men died.
            The stories of his kindness and concern for the rest, 
                  
                     3 The Commission is dated December 14, 1840.
                  
                     4 Francis B. Heitman, Historical Register and Dictionary
                                of the 
                                    United States
                                 Army, from its Organization, September 29, 1789, to March 2, 1903 (2
                            vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1903), I. 215.
               
                     when they finally reached the Mexican frontier are still
                    remembered in many 
                        Warrick County
                     families. One of the things he did to bolster the morale of his homesick men was the
                    editing and publishing of a little newspaper called The Gazette.
               5 Besides news of the war, it contained items of interest to the Indiana Volunteers, extracts
                    of letters from home, lists of the wounded, the deserters, and the dead, and items of general
                    interest in the camp.
            Captain Bethell was one of the men commissioned to carry communications from the front to 
                        Washington
                    . Returning from a trip to the Capitol, he stopped to visit his mother at 
                        Newburgh
                     and carried off a bride, Miss Sophia Stephens of 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana. She accompanied him down the river to the home of friends in the South in the
                    hope that the warmer climate might benefit her delicate health. There, a short time later, she
                    passed away, and after the war Bethell returned alone to his mother's home.
            He became interested after his return to 
                        Newburgh
                     in the prospects of river trade, and went to French Island, far ther up the river,
                    where he built a storehouse to receive the great quantities of produce being brought in for shipment
                    by the settlers of that region.
            French Island, an old trading post, was mentioned in Zadok Cramer's Navigator.
               6 It got its name from the solitary Frenchman who had lived
                    there, carrying on commerce with boats and settlers. From the earliest days it seemed well situated
                    for such enterprise.
            Not long after Bethell had established himself on French Island, he married Miss Maria Gifford, a
                    young English woman of talents, who had recently come to 
                        Evansville
                     to make her home with her brother, Thomas Gifford.7 Maria Gifford
                    came from 
                        Warboys
                    , 
                        Huntingdon
                    , 
                        England
                    , in the spring of 1843. She came as a passenger on a freight vessel, 
                  
                     5 Mrs. Warren treasures a copy of this little paper, published at 
                                Monterey
                            , 
                                Mexico
                            , in May, 1847. She has the original muster roll of his men, and commissions
                            granted him by two of Indiana's governors, as well as the long red silk sash he
                            wore with his uniform, and many papers and letters pertaining to business of a military
                            nature.
                  
                     6 Zadock Cramer, The Navigator (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1811), 133.
                  
                     7 Thomas Gifford had come to America sometime around the year 1835. He
                            had purchased a track of land on Pigeon Creek in Vander-burgh County, Indiana, known then as
                            Pigeon Springs, or the Salt Wells, where he began the manufacture of salt under the firm
                            name of Raleigh and Gifford. Today, this land is incorporated in the city of 
                                Evansville
                            .
               
                     accompanying her girlhood friend who had married the captain of
                    the boat shortly before it sailed. It was an unusual venture for a young lady of that day.
            Maria Gifford was an unusual young woman. She had been educated by her uncle who was master of Sidney
                    College at 
                        Cambridge
                    . Having inherited a dowry of considerable size, she decided to visit America. It was
                    while presiding as mistress of her brother's home at Salt Springs that she met Captain
                    Thomas Bethell, lately returned from the Mexican War.
            Early in the year 1851, Bethell left the French Island business in other hands and came to 
                        Newburgh
                    , where he entered a partnership with William Shelby in general merchandising. An
                    advertisement of their goods appeared in the 
                        Warrick
                    
                    Democrat, published by C. Frary in 
                        Newburgh
                    , March 13, 1851: "In point of beauty and quality, we confidently assert that
                    our goods cannot be surpassed by any house west of the mountains." The ad lists such
                    feminine finery as: 
                  100 doz. Ladies' Buttons
                  10 doz. Lace Capes
                  1 doz. white crape shawls
                  10 patterns Turk Satin
                  50 doz. Swiss Muslins
                  75 pieces Trimming and Ribbons, latest style
                  20 pieces changeable Poult De Chine
                  20 doz. new style rich figured Dechanes
                  10 pieces solid colored Berange
                  A large lot of fine jewelry
                  Hayes and Craigs New Style Mole Skin Hats for 1851.
               
                
            In November of that year, the second daughter8 of Thomas and Maria Bethell was
                    born. She was named Helena Eliza, which was later shortened to Eliza or Lida. Captain Bethell and
                    his little family were living with his mother, Rachel Floyd Bethell, in the house on the river,
                    until such a time as he could provide another home.
            Within a year, Bethell had bought 
                        Shelby
                    's interest in the store and had started a new building. It was built on the
                    river front at the foot of State Street. There was a grocery and warehouse on the first floor, dry
                    goods and general merchandise on the second, while the third floor housed ladies' millinery
                    and an up-to-date tailoring shop. The building was on three different levels, as the ground sloped,
                    so that one might enter the second story from Water Street. 
                        Newburgh
                    's newest emporium was known as Bethell and Brothers and 
                  
                     8 This was the present Mrs. Eliza Bethell Warren, owner of the Bethell
                            house. A daughter, Alice, had been born on the island.
               
                     items from an old ledger included everything from Spanish
                    mantillas, hoop skirts, and ladies' fashionable velvet bonnets to nankeen, candlesnuffers,
                    and gunpowder tea.
            By 1855 Thomas Bethell was able to begin building his own home. A contractor was engaged in the East,
                    and he brought his own workmen. A few of these men were skilled artisans, and their families came
                    with them to live in New-burgh. Some of them remained to become citizens of the village. The house
                    took shape under the experienced hand of unhurried labor. Its architectural pattern was English, for
                    Maria Bethell had her homesick moments for the English landscapes, but the quiet elegance of
                    American Colonial was there, too.
            The bricks were brought up from 
                        New Orleans
                     on the flats that carried down pork, hominy, beeswax, and feathers. Gulf sand was
                    transported for the cement, and today it is as firm as the day it set; none of the brickwork ever
                    needed repointing.
            The house sits on the slope fronting the 
                        Ohio
                    , near the site of the older house, where Thomas Bethell had brought his mother not a
                    dozen years before. It commands a beautiful view of the river as its curves down to 
                        Evansville
                    . Today, from Highway 66, one looks up at its hospitable door, feeling that it still
                    keeps the tradition of Colonial dignity. Since Colonel Bethell's day, the twelve large
                    rooms have not been changed very much. Most of the interior decorations are the same—the
                    original paint, some of the wallpaper, and practically all of the furnishings. Cupboards of old
                    glass and china, highboys and gargantuan poster beds; bookcases, crammed with leather-bound volumes
                    of Harper's Monthly, Scribner's, Peterson's, and Godey's Lady Book; books, pictures, and bric-a-brac, they all speak of an
                    era that has become history.
            Eliza Bethell was seven when the house was finished. It had taken three years to build it. She has no
                    recollection of moving into the new house from Grandmother Rachel Floyd's, but she does
                    recall falling into one of the wells that was being dug for setting out cypress trees. Thirteen of
                    these fine old trees still stand on the grounds. The ivy that creeps on the house was brought over
                    from Westminster Abbey in a wicker basket and planted there by Thomas Gifford, her mother's
                    brother.
            
            One of her earliest recollections was a small incident connected with her Uncle Union
                    Bethell's wedding. Uncle Union was marrying Eva Parrett.9 The bride was
                    being dressed in Rachel Floyd's upstairs bedroom, and the bridesmaids were with her
                    exclaiming over the beautiful gown while covertly stealing glimpses of their own finery in the
                    bride's mirror.
            Little Eliza was playing under the window outside, trying to catch a glimpse of the pretty bride, who
                    was going to be her aunt, when a shrill burst of laughter made her look up to the room above. A
                    small china doll came sailing down through the tree of heaven, and fell unharmed at her feet. She
                    picked it up, examined it fearfully, and ran to her mother. "Look, mother, it came down
                    through the God tree," she cried. Mrs. Bethell laughed, "It's
                    Eva's doll," she said. "Her bridesmaids were teasing her when they found
                    she was carrying her doll in her pocket on her wedding day, and she tossed it out of a window to
                    escape them."
            Grandmother Rachel Floyd came to live in the big house with Thomas' family, now that her own
                    family had all left the nest to seek fortunes of their own. 
                  Chester, Warren
               , and Frank had been
                    lured by the 
                        California
                     Gold Rush of '49, and her daughter, Eliza, had married a promising young
                    doctor, named Eli Lewis. It was in the Lewis home later that young Eliza saw the deer, dressed, and
                    hanging in the corner of the big open fireplace, where it was being cured by the smoke. Deer was not
                    uncommon in the woods around 
                        Newburgh
                     then.
            Eliza and her sister Alice, who was two years her senior, found much to interest them in the village.
                    There was the blindman's store, patronized by all the children of 
                        Newburgh
                    . Mr. Radcliff, the owner, was never too busy to answer questions with the sweet
                    patience of the afflicted. The interior of the shop was interesting too. Books and stationery, an
                    assortment of notions, dolls and toys, and, last but not least, candies in tall glass jars that made
                    an imposing array on the lower shelves. The store was on the street level below A. M.
                    Phelps' residence facing State Street. The blind man 
                  
                     9 Eva Parrett was the daughter of the Reverend Robert Parrett of 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana, who was one of the founders of Methodism in 
                                Evansville
                            . In December, 1819, he and three others met in McGary's double log
                            warehouse and arranged for services to be held regularly in the village. Eva and Union
                            Bethell were prominent in the affairs of 
                                Newburgh
                             during their lifetime.
               
                     and his busy little wife lived in a small cottage adjoining the
                    old Delaney Academy.
            Another favorite haunt of 
                        Newburgh
                    's youth was Joe Lawrence's Ice Cream Factory. Joe was one of the
                    village draymen, but he made a tidy sum on the side selling vanilla ice cream. One could eat a dish
                    of it in his "parlor," or bring a pail to purchase a family portion. There was
                    always something thrilling about hurrying home with a tin of the delectable sweet before it melted
                    away like the Snow Image in the Common Second Reader. Joe's factory was
                    located on Market Street facing the river.
            Mrs. Warren recalls the many boats on the river in those days, and the interest they created for all
                    the villagers. Though 
                        Newburgh
                     was in her heyday then, few people were blasé enough to feign indifference
                    when the big boats came down and tied up at the wharf. They were a tangible link to the world of
                    wealth and fashion. The children made it a game to call them by name while they were at a distance,
                    and, as was natural, they all had favorites. Grey Eagle and Little
                        Grey Eagle are two that she remembers particularly.
            Besides the steamboats and tugs, there were still many flatboats carrying freight and livestock.
                    There were still a few broadhorns, or trading boats of this type, fitted with counters and shelves
                    like a store. They made the smaller wharves, or the straggling settlements on the tributary rivers,
                    carrying such necessities as bar iron, nails, cards (for combing wool), hemp cord, gunpowder,
                    saltpeter, sugar, tea, and country linen. Most of them carried queensware and glass.
            Some of these floating stores were known as "glass boats," because their principal
                    merchandise came from the glassworks at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and Wheeling, and, as a rule, they flew a calico flag, and announced their coming by a
                    shrill blast of a tin horn.
            Mrs. Warren recalls an early adventure on one of the "glass boats." It was well
                    known among the young of 
                        Newburgh
                     that the "glass boat" paid well for rags, papers, and old bottles.
                    She and Alice were eagerly awaiting its arrival, for they had collected a small stock of these
                    wanted items. Without bothering to consult their mother, who might have had a different notion about
                    the propriety of such barter, they set off quietly for the 
                        Newburgh
                     wharf when they heard the boatman's familiar horn. Their arms full, they
                    hurried  up the gangplank, bent on getting their business over
                    before their father or one of his associates might spy them. Breathlessly, they waited while the
                    proprietor weighed and counted their little stock, seeing in their minds' eyes the shining
                    pennies they would have to spend at the blindman's store.
            The boatman took his time, and then he made them a startling proposition. How would they like to have
                    their pictures "took?" Breathlessly, they agreed. While the photographer got out
                    his magic, they giggled and grew hot and cold by turns. Finally, they sobered up, smoothed their
                    hair, and tried not to let their curiosity get the best of them.
            They were walking on air when they left the boat a few minutes later. They carried the picture on a
                    square of milky-looking glass in a neat little frame. It opened up like a book, and there against a
                    background of garnet satin and pierced gold tinsel was the familiar face of Alice and young Eliza,
                    solemn and owlish, perhaps, but for all the world as plain as their own reflection in one of the
                    mirrors at home.
            Mrs. Warren laughs when she speaks of that picture. "My mother didn't like it, for
                    some reason, and it was never shown in our house, but Alice and I were proud of it!" Not
                    many young ladies in 
                        Newburgh
                     were having their likeness made on glass in the year 1860.
            Eliza and Alice did not go to the 
                        Newburgh
                     public school. Being English, Mrs. Bethell wanted them taught at home, and a governess
                    was brought from the East when the girls were old enough for rudimentary learning. In spite of this,
                    Eliza had a great curiosity about the public school. She persuaded her mother one day to let her go
                    to school with a young lad who was often in the Bethell home. None of that day's routine is
                    remembered. But one thing remains clear in her memory. There was a pigtail in the boy's
                    lunch pail, a delicacy not found on the Bethell table, and young Eliza ate it with curiosity and a
                    great deal of relish.
            Delaney Academy10 was an institution of higher learning. It stood in the grove of
                    beautiful trees west of town. In the year 1842 the Indiana Presbytery had obtained a charter from
                    the state legislature and founded an academy to promote the cause of education. The first academy
                    was located in a building on the side of the hill facing Jennings Street. 
                  
                     10 This dwelling still stands. It has been remodeled for a private
                            dwelling.
               
                     It was then called 
                        Newburgh
                     Cumberland Presbyterian Academy. Though its primary purpose was to train young men for
                    the ministry, others, either men or women, were not denied admission. As the fame of the school
                    spread, students came from all the surrounding country, and enlargements were necessary. The new red
                    brick building west of town was called Delaney Academy in honor of Henry F. Delaney, an eminent
                    Presbyterian minister of 
                        Morganfield
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    . The academy declined with the controversial issues of 1860 and the Civil War, and
                    within a few years it closed its doors altogether. In its time, however, it brought 
                        Newburgh
                     many cultural advantages, and the list of its many trustees includes the names of men
                    prominent in the cause of education in both Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            Eliza Bethell was ten when the word came of the firing on Fort Sumter. Though her father was a
                    Democrat, he was a strict abolitionist, and he was in sympathy with Lincoln's policies, so
                    much so, that he voted for the President's second term.
            In the Bethell home politics were discussed freely, and men came and went, consulting Colonel Bethell
                    on many matters. He was a liberal-minded man, well-advanced in his views for the day. He served in
                    the thirty-eighth session, 1857, of the state legislature,11 and was an ardent
                    supporter of Robert Dale Owen's law reforms providing for women's rights and free
                    schools. Like Owen, he was interested in the new cult of Spiritualism.
            Young Eliza and her sister, Alice, felt the excitement in the air when the news of the declaration of
                    war flared across the country. Their father, as Colonel of the Militia, was frequently away from
                    home drilling his men and attending to his business. No doubt, he was more concerned about the war
                    than he dared admit to those nearest him. For there were now five daughters under the sloping gray
                    roof, and another daughter was to be born before the war was over.12
            
            The Bethell interests now included, besides the general store, a cooperage, a tobacco warehouse, a
                    mill, and an interest in a coal mine. The tobacco warehouse lay directly below the Bethell home on
                    the flat stretch of ground facing 
                  
                     11
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1857, p. 5.
                  
                     12 Their names in order of age were, Alice, Eliza, Laura, Elmina,
                            Rachel, Cora, and Lucy.
               
                     the river. Here, as many as a hundred negroes were kept busy in
                    the season loading- tobacco in hogsheads, and rolling them up the gangplanks of 
                        New Orleans
                    -bound steamers.
            The cooperage was farther up the river. It turned out a hundred barrels a day. The barrels were used
                    to ship flour milled in the Bethell flouring mill, not two hundred yards distant toward the east. So
                    compact was the arrangement of Bethell's business, it is said, that coal ran off the tipple
                    trough at the mine into bins at the mill, and the flour was turned out warm into spanking new
                    barrels from the cooperage and rolled down to the Bethell warehouse, where wharf hands had it on the
                    steamboats before the farmer had counted his pay at the cashier's window—an
                    exaggeration that had in it a great deal of truth.
            Thomas Bethell readily accepted Governor Morton's commission to help train the Indiana
                    volunteers of his district. Ground was cleared along the level stretch of Pigeon Creek in 
                        Vanderburgh County
                    , near the present site of Stringtown Bridge at 
                        Evansville
                    , and the laborious work of making soldiers of raw recruits began there. Bethell was
                    captain of Company I of the Twenty-fifth Regiment. Later, this same regiment went out under the
                    command of Colonel James C. Veatch of 
                        Rockport
                    .13
            
            
               
                        Newburgh
                     was situated to feel the anxious pulse of war, to entertain fears for her citizens from
                    guerrilla warfare, and from pirating by river. Mrs. Warren recalls one incident of particular
                    interest.
            One sunny morning as she and Alice were playing in the shadow of the house, they heard the tramp of
                    marching feet, the quickening rattle of drums, and the high, shrill notes of the fife, that meant
                    soldiers on the march. They ran swiftly to the stone wall that hedged them in from the public road
                    flanking the river. There, not a stone's throw away, was a company of blue-coated soldiers
                    keeping sober step, their eyes straight ahead. It was very exciting, for the brass buttoms gleamed
                    on the blue uniforms, and the drums kept up their rapid rattling fury.
            Soon they spied a tall soldier walking in the midst of the others. He wore the blue uniform of his
                    fellows, but oddly 
                  
                     13 W. H. H. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General of
                                Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1865-1869), II, 248, 242; Heitman, Historical Register and
                                Dictionary of the 
                                    United States
                                 Army, I, 215, 986.
               
                     enough, he wore no cap. One side of his head was shaved close,
                    and it gave him a freakish look. He walked sullenly, looking down at the ground. They did not
                    understand it, but later their father told them that the soldier was being drummed out of the army
                    for misconduct. He had wanted to desert and had purposely put his fingers on the rails in front of a
                    moving coal car. His hand was crushed so that he could never carry a gun again. His fellow soldiers
                    had branded him to show that he was no longer wanted in their company.
            
               
                        Newburgh
                     had a hospital, where young Eliza often went with her mother to fan the sick soldiers.
                    The campaign in the West, which resulted in the capture of Fort Henry and Fort Donelson by the North
                    in 1862, and the later battles at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Landing and 
                        Shiloh
                    , brought a terrible toll of wounded. Hundreds of these men were carried by boats to the
                    communities along the 
                        Ohio
                    , where they were taken care of by kindly citizens.
            
               
                        Newburgh
                    's Exchange Hotel at the corner of State and Jennings was made into a hospital.
                    In the summer some of the men lay on cots on the outside gallery that ran along the west wall of the
                    building. Here Eliza and Alice would sit and fan the feverish while their mother and Aunt Eliza
                    worked elsewhere.
            The women of 
                        Newburgh
                     rallied to the call for bedding and bandages. They brought their linens, when the need
                    became acute. The children were taught to tear them into strips and to scrape the pieces for lint,
                    which they put into pails to be sterilized. This lint was used to staunch the flow of blood or to
                    dress a wound as sterile cotton is used today. Mrs. Warren remembers that the linen was precious,
                    and that it had to be scraped until nothing but the warp thread was left.
            Many of 
                        Newburgh
                    's sons were now in the uniform of the Federal Army, and the news from the
                    scene of action seldom failed to carry the name of one known in the community among the casualties.
                    Many of the wounded soldiers in the hospital died and were buried with military honors in the
                    village cemetery.
            Feelings ran high at times, for the river marked a tenuous boundary between North and South. Some
                    citizens were accused of being Southern sympathizers, and blood was shed on one occasion by an angry 
                        Newburgh
                     mob.
            
            It was in July, 1862, that a little band of rebel Marauders under the bold leadership of Captain Adam
                    Johnston rowed across the river in a boat and accosted Union Bethell in his warehouse, where guns
                    and ammunition were stored for the militia. They held him at the point of a gun, while their boat
                    was loaded with firearms.14
            
            Encouraged by this success, Captain Johnston took an aide and walked into Hazen's Hotel,
                    where a number of townsmen had gathered. Ordering them to stack their guns, he told them that 
                        Newburgh
                     was surrounded, and that any move or resistance on their part would be a signal for the
                    men manning the cannon on the 
                        Kentucky
                     shore to shell the town to the ground. The men, wondering how they could have fallen
                    into such a trap, obeyed to a man.
            The news spread like wildfire in the village. Dr. Eli Lewis, who had married Aunt Eliza, mounted his
                    horse and rode at furious speed across the fields and back lanes to 
                        Evansville
                     to warn the citizens and beg their aid for 
                        Newburgh
                    . When he reached the courthouse steps in 
                        Evansville
                    , his horse fell dead.
            
               
                        Evansville
                     sent out her militia at once, but before they reached the town, curious citizens had
                    discovered that the "cannon" across the river was a charred log and a stovepipe
                    mounted on wagon wheels. They had appeared realistic enough from the opposite shore.
            In the excitement that resulted, two 
                        Newburgh
                     men were accused of giving aid to the enemy. An angry mob gathered and hanged them at
                    sundown. They cut down the bodies later and left them lying in an old wagon in front of Dr.
                    Slaughter's home on the public road, as an example of what might happen to other
                    "traitors."
            Mrs. Warren's recollection of the affair was principally sympathy for Uncle Eli and the loss
                    of his valuable horse, though Alice had had the exciting experience of having the cannon pointed out
                    to her by a man in the village that morning, when she had gone to the meat market to get the
                    beefsteak for breakfast.
            Some families, before they had learned of the ruse, had hastily packed their valuables and fled. The
                    Slaughter family had carried their silver to the woods back of the town and buried it, though their
                    colored housekeeper refused to budge 
                  
                     14
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 19, 21, 23, 1862.
               
                     from the house, saying she would stay there and have a hot
                    supper ready for them when they were ready to come home.
            The news of the Northern army's first victory was celebrated with wild enthusiasm by the
                    young men of the town. Young George Bell, in attempting to fire off the cannon on top of the hill
                    overlooking the wharves, lost his left arm. Though this put a damper on the celebration, there was a
                    feeling of general satisfaction among the townspeople over the news.
            Mrs. Warren recalls the tranquil days too—the pleasant Sabbath mornings when she and Alice
                    walked to the little church set in the side of the Methodist Hill where one walked up a stairway on
                    the outside to enter the sanctuary. She did not know then that she would be married in its quiet
                    cool interior on a bright May Sabbath in the year 1877, to one of the young men now fighting so
                    valiantly with General Grant at 
                        Vicksburg
                    . That young man was William Warren, and he came out of the battle with the loss of an
                    arm.
            She remembers Josiah Gray's interesting little ferryhouse that stood near the present
                    location of the Government Dam House. It was a story-and-a-half, and its plastered walls were
                    covered with grotesque figures and pictures made by the smoke and soot of candle flames.
            There was always something going on in the big Bethell kitchen with its scrubbed ash floors.
                    Grandmother Rachel Floyd was always busy in her quiet Southern way. She would laugh and tell them
                    how times had changed since she and Grandfather Cloud had "brought up" a family in
                    the 
                        Orange County
                     wilderness-for instance, she would never have thought of having a tinner come to solder
                    the tin cups of fruit in the canning season as her daughter-in-law did. My, but times had changed
                    since she had cut and dried her peaches and strung them across the rafters, and sealed her
                    applebutter in its own heavy sweetness in stone covered jars! Nor had she ever had her teeth
                    "plugged" in the modern way either. When a tooth had ached it had been drawn,
                    usually by one of the family. But young Eliza had the toothache frequently, and her father would
                    take her to the kindly new dentist, Dr. Morgan, who had established himself and his family in the
                    white cottage beyond A. M. Phelps' residence on State Street. She recalls that no sooner
                    had her feet touched his steps than the tooth stopped aching.
            
            Dr. Morgan had a daughter Carrie. She taught drawing as well as other branches of learning in the
                    public school. By this time Eliza and Alice were having their music with the other young ladies in
                    the basement of the Presbyterian Church.
            Eliza was twelve in 1863, the eventful year of the war. She went with her family one summer afternoon
                    to a celebration for the soldiers in the beautiful wooded grove surrounding Delaney Academy. There
                    were long tables spread with food under the trees. The Academy was closed because the Cumberland
                    Presbyterian Church could no longer support a school in the North. During the afternoon someone
                    suggested looking inside the building. There were maps, pictures, and globes in the schoolrooms. A
                    closet door was half ajar. Eliza put her hand on the knob. The door opened suddenly, and a human
                    skeleton tumbled out! It was a most frightening experience.
            At twelve Eliza began to take more interest in clothes. Mrs. Bethell's sewing woman came
                    twice a year, and stayed until every yard of goods was made up into frocks and petticoats. In the
                    Bethell home where there were six girls, this was not a small order. But the family was the proud
                    possessor of a new sewing machine with a curved needle. The needle would get "angry and
                    balk," and no amount of coaxing would persuade it to move. They would go away and leave it,
                    and after a little rest it would usually hum again.
            The hardships and privations of war did not touch young Eliza, for youth has always had a way of
                    making trifles of misfortunes. The routine in the Bethell household changed little from day to day,
                    and she and Alice went about their own affairs, scarcely aware of the disaster that had overtaken
                    their father's business. The blockade of the 
                        Mississippi
                     had seriously crippled the business of the merchants up and down the river, and was in
                    a fair way of ruining many warehouse owners whose goods were spoiling on the wharves, while they
                    waited for news of Grant's seige of Vicksburg.
            About this time Colonel Bethell hired a steamboat to carry a large consignment of goods upstream to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . From there it was to be hauled overland to the Atlantic and sent by ship to 
                        England
                    . Cured meats, flour, and tobacco made up the principal part of the cargo of the little
                    steamer, as she left the 
                        Newburgh
                     wharf and started her trip eastward.  It was a
                    perilous undertaking, for insurance was practically unknown, and the risk was all with the shipper.
                    Besides this, the river was infested by Southern guerrilla bands, who lay in wait on the wooded
                    shores to pick off such rich cargoes.
            Not far from 
                        Cincinnati
                     the boat caught fire, and both it and the cargo were destroyed. It was an almost
                    overwhelming misfortune to Colonel Bethell who was responsible for the loss of the boat as well as
                    the goods. But he managed in the years following to meet his obligations without losing all of his
                    business.
            There is perhaps only one business house left in New-burgh today, whose doors were open when Eliza
                    Bethell was a girl. That is the establishment of Charles Frank on Water Street fronting the river.
                    Today, Mr. Frank's two daughters, Elizabeth and Lena, carry on the business established
                    many years ago by their father.
            Mr. A. M. Phelps was the patriarch of 
                        Newburgh
                    's merchants. He had come to 
                        Newburgh
                     from 
                        Vermont
                    , as a young man sometime around the year 1830, and, carrying reeds for
                    housewives' looms, he had seen the great wealth of back country produce and the need for a
                    market. He built a warehouse and started in the mercantile business. For forty years he carried on
                    in the same business. He became one of the country's largest landholders, and his vision
                    and generosity were factors in the town's development.
            O. Picou, a Frenchman, from 
                        New Orleans
                     was another early merchant.
            Stokes Garwood's Blacksmithy was located on Boonville Road, not far from the Presbyterian
                    Church. He made wagons and plows. Thomas Gunnel and Samuel Jorden were in the same business.
                    Competition was such that Mr. Jorden advertised in the 
                        Warrick
                    
                    Democrat in 1851: "All orders in my line will be thankfully received and
                    punctually attended to."
            Three druggists advertised their stock in the same paper. They were J. R. Kennar, Dr. J. N. McGill,
                    and Dr. A. H. Petit. A full column was used to advertise the virtues of Hatchitts Compound Extract
                    of Cohosh. It claimed to cure chills, fever, jaundice, scurvy, pulmonary consumption, erysipelas,
                    scarlet fever, measles, smallpox, rheumatism, and gout, not to mention diseases of the kidneys and
                    the bladder. As a further inducement, four physicians of 
                        Evansville
                     Medical  College endorsed its unsurpassed
                    qualities. These were Doctors John R. Wilcox, M. J. Bray, J. S. Swann, and L. L. Laycock.
            
               
                        Newburgh
                     was not without entertainment during the war. Mozart Hall offered varied bills during
                    the winter season. Traveling dramatic troupes delighted their audiences with Ten Nights
                        In a Bar-Room, and What I Saw There; The Maid's Tragedy; and The
                        Faithful Shepherdess. But nothing was so widely heralded as the Showboat itself with its
                    melodramatic rendering of Uncle Tom's Cabin.
            
            One can still hear an old story in the barber shops of 
                        Newburgh
                    , a story of The Underground Railway. On certain dark nights when the moon is in its
                    last quarter, it is said a pickaninny cherub haunts the pool of water near the old Delaney Academy.
                    The little angel wears a halo of luminous blue light and moves mournfully among the old trees like a
                    child that has lost its mother. An explanation of the story is this:
            Long before the war a negro slave escaped from her cruel owners with two of her children. One of them
                    was a babe in arms. She was aided in crossing the 
                        Ohio
                     and was set ashore in the darkness. She was told to go directly north and to follow the
                    sycamores until she had crossed a rivulet on her path. Not far distant, on her left, she would find
                    a red brick house where she would be given food and shelter.
            Following the directions carefully, she suddenly realized that she was being pursued. The babe had
                    begun to whimper, and she made a hasty decision. If she could quiet the baby's cries, she
                    and the other child might have a chance for freedom. She crossed the rivulet and saw the pool.
                    Stooping, she immersed the wailing child in the water and then fled swiftly from the scene. To this
                    day its spirit is said to haunt the place.
            Appealing as this story is, Mrs. Warren discredits the stories of underground operations in 
                        Newburgh
                    . She does admit, however, that she has lain awake nights listening to the eerie bay of
                    the bloodhounds, as they tracked down runaway slaves on the opposite shore.
            Now and then a nostalgia assails her to relive the happy golden days of her youth in 
                        Newburgh
                    . All her girlhood friends have passed on: adventuresome Alice, who later became Mrs.
                    Lawrence Archer of 
                        San Jose
                    , 
                        California
                    ; Lillie  Slaughter Rutledge, whose father, Dr.
                    Slaughter, was one of 
                        Newburgh
                    's pioneer physicians; and pretty erudite Eldora Miner Raleigh who did much to
                    preserve 
                        Warrick County
                    's early history.
            Time does turn back through memory, and she is a young lady again. Her hair is up, and her hoop skirt
                    demurely covers her ankles. She is sixteen. The war is over, and a kind of heavy-hearted silence is
                    on the land.
            But the future did not look too dark to the young people of that day. The boats were still on the
                    river, and the river had not changed. Once a week young Jerry Jorden would walk to 
                        Evansville
                     and bring back copies of the 
                  
                            New York
                         Ledger for the townsfolk. Eliza awaited eagerly each copy, as did all the
                    young ladies of 
                        Newburgh
                    , for Mrs. South-worth's new novel, The Hidden Hand15
                was running serially.
            Politics and news, and the mail that the boats carried were for the elders—as was the
                    past. Eliza was sure that she would never hold to the past as did Grandmother Rachel, who was now
                    nearing eighty. For grandmother kept looking back, wanting to talk of the time that she and young
                    Cloud Bethell had set out for the Indiana wilderness with mammy, a featherbed, and two smoothing
                        irons.16
            
            
               
                  15 E. D. E. N. Southworth, The Hidden Hand (
                            London
                        , 1859).
               
                  16 Rachel Floyd Bethell died April 20, 1874, at the age of eighty-three.
                        Her son, Thomas Floyd Bethell had died the preceding year March 25, 1873, of an heart
                    attack.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            HOWARD H. PECKHAM
            
            Since acquiring the 450 acres that comprise the Angel Mounds archaeological site near 
                        Evansville
                     in 1938, the Historical Society has contemplated the proper public use of the area.
                    Excavations directed by Glenn A. Black, archaeologist for the society, have uncovered valuable
                    relics of the first inhabitants of Indiana. The general layout of the village has been determined,
                    and more than two million pieces of man-made objects have been removed for study. Work continues at
                    the site.
            In purchasing the tract, the society used funds it was reserving for museum purposes. Now the state
                    is moving toward rehabilitation of the state museum. The society has considered giving the Angel
                    Mounds site to the state on two conditions: that some restoration of the village be undertaken on
                    the basis of the archaeological evidence, and that the society be allotted space in any new museum
                    building acquired by the state. Action was taken by the executive committee on June 8, and a letter
                    prepared for Governor Gates containing the offer of the site. The Governor replied, enthusiastically
                    endorsing the proposal, and has referred it to the Department of Conservation. In anticipation of
                    the gift, the last General Assembly passed a resolution to create a committee to accept the gift of
                    any historical site to the state.
            Part of the acreage at 
                        Angel Mounds
                     can be used for recreational purposes by the visiting public. Mr. Black already teaches
                    at Indiana University, and the mounds make an unrivaled laboratory for student archaeologists. The
                    society will continue to make explorations after the property passes out of its hands. Once before
                    the state and the society co-operated in the housing of the society library. In return for quarters
                    in the State Library and Historical Building, the society allows the public to consult its library
                    of source materials.
            The society is supporting the effort of the Filson Club to persuade the electors for 
                        New York
                     University's Hall of Fame to award George Rogers Clark a place therein. He has
                    before received enough votes to constitute a nomination, but not a sufficient majority to be
                    admitted.
            
            As there was doubt about the expiration of the term of the present membership of the Advisory
                    Committee to the Historical Bureau, the executive committee has made up a slate of nominations to
                    this committee. Members are appointed by the State Library and Historical Board. The Advisory
                    Committee links the Historical Society and the Bureau and provides a representative body for the
                    director of the Bureau to consult.
            Paid annual memberships in the society stood at 1200 on June 8, compared with 1128 at the same time
                    last year. While this total places Indiana among the top eleven state historical societies in the
                    country, it should by no means represent a maximum figure. The 
                  Kansas, Minnesota
               , and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     societies have about 1600 members, 
                        Oklahoma
                     has 1650, and 
                        Maryland
                     has 1900. During the autumn of this year, plans will be laid for a vigorous membership
                    campaign for the year 1946. Suggestions are invited.
         
         
         
            Documents
            A NEW LETTER ABOUT THE MASSACRE AT FORT DEARBORN
            JOHN D. BARNHART
            
            Eyewitness accounts of the 
                        Fort Dearborn
                     Massacre are few, most of the few are very brief, and two at least are not very
                    trustworthy. For these reasons the appearance of a second letter of Walter K. Jordan, who was
                    present at the massacre, is a matter of interest and of some importance. The account which the
                    letter contains is substantially the same as given in a previous letter, but its publication should
                    help to settle some doubts about 
                        Jordan
                    .
            A review of the previously known narratives aids in the evaluation of the new letter. Dr. Milo M.
                    Quaife discussed this material in his 
                  
                            Chicago
                         and the Old Northwest.
               1 Captain Nathan Heald, the
                    commandant of 
                        Fort Dearborn
                    , prepared an official report,2 which was written with candor a few
                    weeks after the massacre. Although it is very brief, it is probably our most important account. A
                    still more concise statement is found in Captain Heald's journal.3
                    Lieutenant Linai T. Helm in the summer of 1814 prepared an account which is longer than that of his
                    superior officer.4 It might have been of great value if he had not assiduously
                    sought to discredit Captain Heald, misstating facts in order to accomplish his purpose. This account
                    remained unknown for three-quarters of a century, but it influenced another narrative which has been
                    followed by most of the later writers. This is the well-known story of Mrs. Juliette A. Kinzie, Wau Bun.
               5 Her account of the massacre first appeared in 1841
                    in a pamphlet,6 and twelve years later in book form. It is impossible to grant
                    it the distinction of being as it claims an eyewitness account, for the author was not present at
                    the massacre. She was related by marriage to the Kinzie family 
                  
                     1 Milo M. Quaife, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 and the Old Northwest, 1672-1835 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1913), 378-401.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 406-408.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 402-405.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 415-421.
                  
                     5 Mrs. Juliette A. Kinzie, Wau Bun or the Early Day in
                                the Northwest (
                                Chicago
                            , 1856).
                  
                     6
                            Narrative of the Massacre at 
                                    Chicago
                                , August 15, 1812, and of Some Preceding Events (
                                Chicago
                            , 1844).
               
                     and to Mrs. Helm, who was also a Kinzie. John Kinzie, the
                    trader at 
                        Fort Dearborn
                    , lost heavily when the fort was evacuated. He endeavored at the time to persuade
                    Captain Heald to disobey General William Hull's order of evacuation. Mrs. Kinzie's
                    narrative is not only marked by the prejudices of her family and of Lieutenant Helm, but also by
                    misstatements of fact and by a great fondness for the dramatic and the romantic. 
                        It abounds in details that could not possibly have been remembered by Mrs. Kinzie's
                            supposed informants; in others that could not have been known to them; and in still others
                            that could never have occurred. Undaunted by the absence of records, Mrs. Kinzie repeats
                            speeches and dialogues verbatim, as she, apparently, conceived they should have been
                                recited.7
                  
                     In contrast is the History of the Late War in the Western Country by
                    Robert B. McAfee. It is one of the best contemporary narratives of the War of 1812, and it contains
                    a brief description of the massacre as reported by Sergeant William Griffith who was present.
                    Although it does not pretend to be in his exact words, it does seem to be "a plain,
                    unvarnished statement of facts, furnished by an eye witness," as claimed by McAfee.8
            
            Another short account of the massacre was published by Dr. Quaife in the 
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review, entitled "The
                    Story of James Corbin, A Soldier of 
                        Fort Dearborn
                    ."9 It was dictated on July 8, 1826, by an illiterate and
                    uneducated man, but it has the character of a truthful narration of events personally known to the
                    narrator. Its brevity, however, limits its value.
            Other items have appeared from time to time, some of considerable importance. The discovery of
                    General William Hull's order to evacuate 
                        Fort Dearborn
                     was of great significance 
                  
                     7 Quaife, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 and the Old Northwest, 384. For a longer criticism of Mrs.
                            Kinzie's account see Milo M. Quaife, "Some Notes on the 
                                Fort Dearborn
                             Massacre," in the Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Association, Proceedings for the Year 1910-1911 (
                                Cedar Rapids
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1912), 112-138, and James R. Haydon, "John Kinzie's Place in
                            History," in the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, Transactions for the Year 1932
                            (n.d., n.p.), 183-199.
                  
                     8 Robert B. McAfee, History of the Late War in the
                                Western Country (
                        Lexington, Kentucky
                     , 1816), 98-101, see 101.
                  
                     9 Milo M. Quaife, "The Story of James Corbin, A Soldier of 
                                Fort Dearborn
                            ," 
                        Mississippi Valley Historical
                                Review (
                                Cedar Rapids
                            , 
                                Iowa
                            , 1914-), III (1916-1917), 219-228.
               
                     in evaluating Mrs. Kinzie's account.10 The letter of Charles Jouett to President James Monroe of April 3, 1817, and the letter of
                    John Kinzie to President James Monroe of April 4, 1817, are of similar importance although they give
                    little or no direct information about the massacre.11 Another contemporary
                    letter, Captain D. Curtis to Cullen C. Witherell, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , October 4, 1812, is important chiefly for information it contains about the seige of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .12 The fate of the survivors was the chief concern of Judge
                    Augustus B. Woodward in his letter to Colonel Henry A. Proctor of October 7, 1812.13 Each of these letters, however, makes at least a brief reference to the massacre.
            It is against this background that the letters of Walter K. Jordan must be evaluated. 
                        Jordan
                     had left his family in 
                        Mercer County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and had become a member of the garrison at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana Territory. When Hull's order reached that garrison asking that
                    cooperation be given to Captain Heald in carrying out the evacuation of 
                        Fort Dearborn
                    , Captain William Wells, a famous Indian scout and the uncle of Mrs. Heald, volunteered
                    his services. At the head of a band of Miami warriors he left 
                        Fort Wayne
                     for 
                        Fort Dearborn
                    . 
                        Jordan
                    , who bore the rank of corporal, also accompanied him. Apparently they started on August
                    8, arrived on the 13, and departed on the 15. 
                        Jordan
                     was present at the massacre. Being among the survivors, he became a prisoner of the
                    Indians, escaped, and returned to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . He was present when that fort was besieged and when it was relieved by William Henry
                    Harrison. After these harrowing experiences he wrote two or possibly three letters. On October 12,
                    1812, he wrote to his wife "Betcy,"14 and on December 17,
                    1812, he wrote to Joseph Hunter of 
                        Mercer County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . He may also have written a second letter to his wife on October 19.
            
               
                  10 Hull's order is given in Quaife, 
                     
                                Chicago
                             and the Old Northwest, 216, note 583.
               
                  11 These letters are in Haydon, "John Kinzie's Place in
                        History" in the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Society, Transactions for the year 1932, pp.
                        183-187.
               
                  12 This letter was published in Friend Palmer, Early Days in 
                                Detroit
                            
                   (
                            Detroit
                        , 1906), 880-885. It does not appear to be as well known as it should be.
               
                  13 Quaife, 
                     
                                Chicago
                             and the Old Northwest, 422-424, and 396-397.
               
                  14 Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of William Henry
                            Harrison (2 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, VII and IX, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1922), II, 165-167.
            
            
            There appeared in Niles' Weekly Register, May 8, 1813, what purported to
                    be an "Extract of a letter from Walter Jordan, a non-commissioned officer of the regulars
                    at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , to his wife in 
                        Allegheny county
                    , dated 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , October 19, 1812." Whether it is an extract of a third letter or a poorly
                    copied portion of the letter of October 12, it is not possible to determine. It would seem quite
                    reasonable to assume that his wife carried out his request to send a copy of the letter of October
                    12 to Joseph Hunter, omitting the very personal portions at the end in which 
                        Jordan
                     told of his wages and sent endearing remarks to his family. It is possible that his
                    wife was as poor, or a poorer scribe than he and that the extract was recopied before reaching Niles' Register, which may account for some of the differences between
                    the portion printed and the original. The Niles' Register extract gives
                    evidence that 
                        Jordan
                    's spelling and poor choice of words were corrected. In order to show the
                    possible relationship, the two are given side by side.
            [Extract from Niles' Weekly Register.]
            
                    "I take my pen to inform you perilous journey through the Indian country.
                    Captain Wells, myself, and an hundred friendly Indians, left 
                            Fort Wayne
                         on the first of August to escort captain Heald from fort Chicauga, as he was in
                        danger of being captured by the British, Orders had been given to abandon that fort, and retreat
                        to 
                            Fort Wayne
                        , a distance of 150 miles. We reached fort Chicauga on the 10th of August, and on
                        the 15th we prepared for an immediate march, burning all that we could not fetch with us.
                    On the 15th, at 8o'clock we commenced our march with our small force, which consisted
                    
                
            [Letter of October 12, 1812.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Betcy I now lift my pen to inform you that I am In a good State of health after a
                                    long and (sore)15 Journy threw the indian Cuntry I Started
                                    (from) fort wayn on the 1 of august With Cap Wells and (100) pretended indian
                                    friends to goe to fort dearbourn on lake michigan wich is 200 miles from fort wain
                                    to gard in Cap Hell [Heald] and his Company to fort wain as he was in danger of
                                    Being takin By the British and had received orders to avacuate that fort and march
                                    to fort wayn. Wee got to fort dearbourn (on the 10th of) august unmolested destroyd
                                    all that wee Could not fetch With-us and prepard for a march on the morning of th[e]
                                    15 the morning of the 15 now arives the Most Limentable Day I Ever Saw
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  15 Newspaper clipping in possession of the family was used to supplement
                        sentences of the original letter where the paper was torn. These phrases and words are enclosed
                        in parentheses and those inserted by the editor are in brackets.
            
            
            
                    of captain Wells, myself, and our 100 Confute Indians, captain Heald's 100 men, ten
                        women, and twenty children; in all 232.
                    We had marched half a mile, when we were attacked by 600 Kickapoo and Wynbago Indians. In the
                        moment of trial our Confute savages joined the savage enemy, Our contest lasted ten minutes,
                        when every man, woman and child was killed except 15. Thanks be to God I was one of those who
                        escaped. First they shot the feather of my cap, next the epaulet from my shoulder, and then the
                        handle from my sword. I then surrenered to four savage rascals. The Confute chief, taking me by
                        the hand, and speaking English said, '
                            Jordan
                        , I know you, you gave me tobacco at 
                            Fort Wayne
                        . We wont kill you, but come and see what we will do with your captain;' so
                        leading me to where Wells lay, they cut off his head and put it on a long pole, while another
                        took out his heart and divided it among the chiefs, and eat it up raw. Then they scalped the
                        slain and stripped the prisoners, and gathered in a ring with us fifteen poor wretches in the
                        middle. They had nearly fell out about the divide, but my old chief the White Racoon, holding me
                        fast
                    they made the divide and departed to their towns.
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Heels men Consists of 100 men 10 –woman and 20 Children total
                                    amounting–130–. Wels and my-Self and our 100 pretended friends
                                    making in all 232 now Wee leave fort dearbourn about 8 O Clock in the morning Bound
                                    for 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                     and Marched about 1 mile when we wore atacked with 500 kikepoos and
                                    winabagoes indians and our pretended friends (joined) them, our engagement last
                                    about 10 (minutes) When there was Every man wooman and Chid (killed) But 15 and
                                    thanks be to god I was one of them tha first Shot the fether out of my Cap the nex
                                    Shot the appolet of my Shoulder and the 3 Broke the handle of my Sword I had to
                                    Surrender My Self to 4 Damd yallow indians tha Marche up to whar Wells Lay and one
                                    of them Spok English and Said Jordan I now you you gave me some toBacco at fort wain
                                    you Shant Be kild but See What I will doe with your Captain
                        He then Cut of his head and Stuck it on a pol while another tuck out his hart and
                                    divided it among the Chieffs and tha Eate it up raw When tha Culped [scalped] all
                                    tha gatherd in a round ring with With [sic] us poore Devils in the
                                    midle and had like to fall out hoo Should have the prisoners But my old Chief The
                                    White Racoon held me by the hand th[ey] striped all of us to our Shirts and trowsers
                                    and Evyry family tuck one as long as wee Lasted and then Steard for thare Towns
                                    Evyry man to his tent O. Israel but I will Just inform you when I got to my strange
                                    lodging I loke about Like a cat in a Strange garrett. (But I) made My Self as
                                    Comfortable as possible I [could] under My present SircumStance nite Came on tha
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    They tied me hard and fast that night, and placed a guard over me. –I lay down and
                        slept soundly until morning for I was tired—in the morning they untied me and set me
                        parching corn, at which I worked attentively until night. They said that if I would stay and not
                        runaway, that they would make a chief of me, but if I would attempt to runaway they would catch
                        me and burn me alive. I amused them with a fine story in order to gain their confidence;
                    and fortunately made my escape from them on the 19th of August, and took one of their best horses
                        to carry me, being seven days in the wilderness. I was joyfully received on the 26th at 
                            Wayne
                        . On the 28th they attacked the fort, and blockaded us
                    until the 16th of September, when we were relieved by Gen. Harrison."
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        (tied me) hard and fast and plased a guard over me I laid down (and) slep Sound till
                                    morning for I was tired tha untied me in the Morning and Set me to parching Corn. I
                                    worked all day very atentive at nite my old Chief told that if I would Stay and not
                                    run away that I Should be a Chief But if atemped to run away tha would Catch me and
                                    Burn me alive I told him a fine Story So th[ey] did not ty me that nite as for the
                                    particulars I havnt room to (write them) but I (made my escape) on the 19 and Stole
                                    one of thare horses and Came to fort Wayn on 26th Being 7 days in the wilderness
                                    Whare I was recvd Joyfully on 28th the indians attacked fort wain so tha Cut of all
                                    interCours tha thaut to Starve us out but one friend indian Came in and wee Sent him
                                    to govrnor harrison Witch Cam to our relief on the 16 of Septem With 3 thousand
                                    volenteers When the governor came on he Broke our Captain for Cowardise I Just
                                    mention this that if it is my lot to fall that you may now how to Comat at my rite I
                                    Belong to
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Captain James Rhay the 1 Ridgement of infantry our paymaster was [manuscript torn] 
                                        Detroit
                                     So I have not recevd one Cent of pay but half of (my bounty) witch was
                                    8 dollars I now am 3 Sargent my pay is (7 dollars) a month I onely Served 15 days as
                                    a privet What Spare time (I have) I assist the Comosary So that keps me in tee Sugar
                                    and so forth after all my funn I weigh 190 one word to you Betcy for if I was now
                                    speaking to you it would my Language I have two litters of yourn Before me and Some
                                    of the soft hair of yor head and Some in a Small plat round My neck I mus just that
                                    I am Sorry to See your pen Breath ridicule for if I diserve it it wont cure it dont
                                    conclud from those words that I am tired of your letters But tell me how you live
                                    and the Childern is and fo God Sake try to Send Mountford to scool it ant on time in
                                    ten that I can rite to you But you Can rite When you pleas. I gave 50 cents for this
                                    paper Dirct your Letter to the Care of Lieutanant ostrander for we have no Cap now
                                    tell me if the men is Drafted in your Cuntry You will do W K Jordan favor if you
                                    send Hunter a copy of this Leter So give my Comps to all inquiring  friends give my Best respects to your father and mother
                                    and all your brothers and this Line of kises to my Harts Delite–
                                    – – – – – –
                                    – and the Boys tell them what you please and these for your
                                    Self– – – – So I ConClud With My Best
                                    Resects to you till death or till I see [you] So I Subscribe My name this 12 nite of
                                    October 1812.—
                        
                                    W. K. Jordan Sergent
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The hitherto unpublished letter was apparently nearly-obtained by Dr. Quaife in 1920, but the fact
                    that no one was permitted to read the original and that it seemed possible that it was a copy of the
                    letter to "Betcy" served to add confusion. Both letters are now in the possession
                    of Howard and Catherine Keach of 
                        Bedford
                    , Indiana. Mr. Keach is a great-great-grandson of Walter K. and
                    "Betcy" 
                        Jordan
                    . The letters and some other family items have been handed down in the family, which
                    moved first to western 
                        Virginia
                     and then to Indiana. The letters were brought to a history class at Indiana University
                    by Mrs. Virginia Toole of 
                        Bedford
                    . The letter of December 17th follows: 
                  
                     
                        Sir after My respects
                        I now lift my pen to inform you that I am Just now Sitting By a good fire in a warm
                                    room in fort wayn garison after a troublesome summer with the indians I rote a full
                                    aCount of My Being takin prisioner with the indians I told betcy to send you the
                                    Letter or the Copy of it and wished one o you to send an answer and as yet I have
                                    got none I now will Just mention some of the perticulars I started from fort wayn on
                                    the 1 of august to go to Chicaugo 200 miles distant from fort wayn with Cap Wells
                                    and 100 friend[ly] indians to condut Cap Heel [Heald] and his Company to this plase
                                    Wee arrived [there?] on the 9 and started on the 15 for fort wayn Marched about 2
                                    miles whare wee ware atack with about 500 indians and then our friend indians Joind
                                    them then thare was 600 indians against 100 and 30 Men women and Childern our
                                    ingageMent Lasted about 20 Minuts Whare our 100 and 30 was Redused to 15 Souls of
                                    wich thank god I was one During the ingagement the fether was Shot out of my Cap the
                                    aplett of[f] of my Shoulder and the handle broke of my Sword But receivd no bodely
                                    wound the[y] sculped all the ded and wounded and then Joind to divide the prisoners
                                    when one indian Came up to me and Said Jordan no Hurt you you gave me tobacco at
                                    fort wayn But See what I will doe to your Captain he then Cut of his head and Stuck
                                    it on a pole then Cut him open and tuck out his hart and gave a pease of it to Each
                                    Chief that Stud round him Know the prisioners is divided and I gow to the river
                                    Deplaines With my Chief the White Raccoon when I came to the Camp I looked like a
                                    Cat in a Strange garort [garrett] as for What happened hear I Cant now tell you all
                                    I Stood 3 days and 3 nits the 4 nite I Started now being about 300 miles distant
                                    from fort wayn I need not Stop hear to tel you how I got to fort wayn but so it is
                                    thank god I got Safe Hear whare I was  recevd
                                    with Joy this being the 28 day of august on the 29 the garison was suround With
                                    about 9 or ten Hundred indians tha Kepus in the garison until the 14 of September
                                    During this time Wee lost 10 Men all our in ter Cours was Cut of hear in the woods
                                    hemd up By the indians, our red Bretheren I will now Just observe that the indians
                                    had taken 2 forts before and was determained that fort Wayn Should be the 3 one,
                                    thare was onely 75 fiteing Men in the garison offisers and all I dont now what you
                                    may think of the fite But I thought it long anuff the gansons that was taken is
                                    Mackenaw and Chicaugo whare to the Later I was witness But govenor harson [Harrison]
                                    Came to our Relief with 3 thousand volonteers witch Soon dispercd the indians and
                                    gave us Liberty to See the outsid of the garison again—thare is one thing
                                    that I am Sory to tell that My Captain Rhay was broke for Coowardise our 2
                                    Lieutanant and [Sergn?] Confined him to his room and when the general Came he was
                                    Broke I have nothing to tell onely that I have raisd from a private to a Sargent I
                                    would not wish to live Better than I doe I have good warm Cloos and plenty of them
                                    and the Soldiers has to Cut wood and Cook So all that all I have to doe is to Mount
                                    gard Every 5 nite I Cant give any true aCount about our army for wee have not had an
                                    Express this 2 months on the aCount of high water we now Send an Express this
                                    [manuscript torn] to Hear what tha are doing pleas to rite Conserning the drafts
                                    whether tha ware hevy or not and dont forget to tell me how the Last Election Went I
                                    hav not recvd one cnt of pay as yet but I have a handful when it Comes I was apoind
                                    Sargant Last July I asist the Comisary Some and that keps me in pocket mony one
                                    Request is to try to find out how the Childern is Comeing on and dont rite anythn
                                    about them if you dont now it to Be true If god Spars us both it is likely that Wee
                                    will [manuscript torn] fase to fase in about 5 years Now please to Excuse the Silenc
                                    of my pen to you hugh I long for a letr from your hand for I Supos Wil is tow ful of
                                    fun Saly Robrt and John is two litle if you get this Lette giv Betcy word of it and
                                    See if She got any that I Sent her and Let me now With this I ConClud With My Best
                                    Respects to all inquiring friends
                        
                                    Walter K Jordan Serg
                                    Decmbr 17th 1812
                                
                        N B I am Commanded 837 Cap Hugh Moore To Jos Hunter Send Betcy this
                                letter
                     
                  
               
            
            One must inquire whether these manuscripts are forgeries or genuine letters. This is particularly
                    true since Dr. Quaife in his 
                  
                            Chicago
                         and the Old Northwest rejected the extract of the 
                        Jordan
                     letter which appeared in Niles' Weekly Register as a
                    "worthless fabrication." It should be noted that the original letters of October
                    12 and December 17 were not then known to scholars and were not therefore included in this judgment.
                    Dr. Quaife is not to be criticized for rejecting this extract, for the inaccuracies and the term
                    "Confute  Indians" certainly were enough to
                    arouse great suspicion.16 After the letter of October 12 was published, Dr.
                    Quaife revised his previous conclusion about 
                        Jordan
                    .17 The early publication of what probably was a portion of the
                    letter to "Betcy," indicates that one letter at least was in existence as early as
                    May 8, 1813. The appearance of the letters today tend to confirm the belief that they are very old.
                    They are written on good substantial paper in the same poor handwriting and are torn along the folds
                    from much handling. Professor Logan Esarey published the letter of October 1218having satisfied himself that the letter to "Betcy" was an actual account
                    of the massacre. The appearance of the second or later letter, which was apparently in the hands of
                    another branch of the family until recent years, and its similarity in respect to paper, penmanship,
                    and contents seems to establish the genuineness of both letters.
            The accuracy and truthfulness of the letters must also be considered. 
                        Jordan
                     was as careless of dates and numbers as many indifferent history students. Captain
                    Wells left 
                        Fort Wayne
                     on August 8, but in both letters 
                        Jordan
                     seems to have stated that they left on the first. The figure, however, is hard to
                    decipher and may have been a 4 or 7. He stated that they arrived on the tenth in the first letter
                    and on the ninth in the second letter. The date of the massacre he has correct in both letters. The
                    number of Indians accompanying Wells to 
                        Chicago
                     he gave in each letter as 100. The other accounts differ but all give a smaller number.
                    Heald gave the number as "abount 30," Helm as 27, and McAfee as "about
                    50." It would seem that 
                        Jordan
                     exaggerated but that no one was certain of the exact number. In the letter to
                    "Betcy" he wrote that the persons leaving 
                        Fort Dearborn
                    , not including Indians, totaled 132 or 100 men of Heald's force, 10 women, 20
                    children, and Wells and 
                        Jordan
                    . In the letter to Hunter he wrote that there were 130 men, women, and children. These
                    are larger than the estimates made by Heald, Helms, and McAfee, all of whom differ with each other. 
                        Jordan
                     gave the number not killed as, 15, apparently referring only to men. Heald stated in
                    his official account that 
                  
                     16 Quaife, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 and the Old Northwest, 395-396.
                  
                     17 Milo M. Quaife, Checagou; from Indian Wigwam to Modern
                                City, 1673-1835 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1933), 122, 133, 135, and 149-150.
                  
                     18 Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of William Henry
                                Harrison, II, 165-167.
               
                     26 men and eleven women and children were saved, and in his
                    journal he recorded the survivors as 27 men and 11 women and children. Helm's account is
                    contradictory, and comparative numbers are confused. The account in McAfee says that "the
                    ranks were so reduced, as scarcely to exceed 20 effective men." In one letter 
                        Jordan
                     wrote that the engagement lasted about ten minutes while in the other about twenty
                    minutes. All of these figures make it evident that 
                        Jordan
                     was careless about numbers and dates and that none of the accounts agree. It is not
                    surprising that in the excitement of the massacre 
                        Jordan
                     should have become somewhat confused, but not all of the inaccuracies can be explained
                    as confusion. The exaggerations and the reference in the letter of October 12 to criticism by his
                    wife indicate that he was endeavoring to make himself appear important to his wife and friends.
                    Surely a forger would not have been so careless. The inaccuracies lessen the value of the letters,
                    but not their genuineness.
            The identity and something of the character of 
                        Jordan
                     can be established. According to the records of the War Department, Walter K. Jordan
                    was born at 
                  Washington, Pennsylvania
               , and was enlisted on March 10, 1812, at 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , when twenty-nine years of age.19 The family bible lists the
                    marriage of William [sic] 
                        Jordan
                     and Elizabeth Wort, and the members of her family from 1748 to the present. The Orderly
                    Books of the garrison of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     contain several references to him. He was appointed corporal on July 24, 1812, by
                    Captain J. Rhea, the commandant. On December 26, 1812, he was charged with neglect of duty on the
                    previous evening (Christmas), to which he pled guilty and prayed the mercy of the court. He was
                    reduced to the rank of a private, but was reinstated as a corporal on January 7, 1813, at the
                    request of the officers of the company. Evidently excessive Christmas celebration was not regarded
                    too seriously. He served as a witness at a court martial on January 25, and June 16. On August 23,
                    1813, he was charged with counterfeiting and forging a permit to buy one pint of whiskey. For this
                    he was again reduced to the rank of a private. The last pages of the orderly book are missing and we
                    do not know whether he was reinstated or not. It is a 
                  
                     19 Major General J. A. Ulio, Adjutant General, to John D. Barn-hart,
                            February 1, 1944.
               
                     little difficult to estimate the seriousness of the court
                    martials for they were unbelievably frequent at this frontier post, even the commanding officer
                    resigning because he had been guilty of disgraceful conduct during the seige of the fort.20 Discipline must have been very weak. 
                        Jordan
                     did not live to rejoin his family, his death occurring on April 6, 1814.21
            
            Another point that requires clarification is 
                        Jordan
                    's rank and his reference to the sword, epaulet, and feather which he wore. He
                    signed the letter of October 12, "W. K. Jordan Sergent," and in the letter of
                    December 17, he states, "I was apoind Sargant Last July." On July 24, 1812, he was
                    appointed corporal, but there is no record of his appointment as sergeant. In the second letter he
                    wrote "During the ingagement the fether was Shot out of my Cap the aplett of of my Shoulder
                    and the handle broke on my Sword But receivd no bodely wound." We have only his word for
                    this story, but an inquiry directed to the Smithsonian Institution brought a letter from J. E. Graf,
                    associate director, stating that the uniform of the corporal in 1812 included these items.22
            
            Fortunately one of the accounts previously referred to narrates the departure of Captain Wells from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     for 
                        Fort Dearborn
                     and refers to "one of our soldiers" who went with him. Since the
                    other accounts of the massacre do not mention 
                        Jordan
                    , this reference to "one of our soldiers" is the only known
                    confirmation of his claim to have gone to 
                        Fort Dearborn
                     that has come to light. The writer also tells the news of the massacre as it came back
                    to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     by an Indian and perhaps, though he is not mentioned, by 
                        Jordan
                    . This part of the letter may be quoted.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Nothing here of an important nature transpired till about the 7th of August, when our
                                    captain received a note from General Hull, stating that 
                                        Fort Dearborn
                                     was to be evacuated, and requesting the captain to communicate the same
                                    to Captain Wells and Wm. Stickney, and for them to point out the most safe and
                                    expeditious route for Captain Heald to take from 
                                        Chicago
                                     to 
                                        Detroit
                                    . The gentlemen were consulted on the subject, and concluded that by way
                                    of this place would be the best route, and in order to secure as much of the public
                                    property at that place as possible, Captain Wells thought proper to 
                              
                                 20 Bert J. Griswold (ed.), 
                                    
                                                    Fort Wayne
                                                , Gateway of the West, 1802-1813 (Indiana Historical
                                                Collections, XV, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1927), 55, 327, 366-367, 377-380, 382, 387, 394, 395, and 400.
                              
                                 21 Major General J. A. Ulio, to John D. Barnhart,
                                            February 1, 1944.
                              
                                 22 Letters of J. E. Graf to John D. Barnhart,
                                            Febrtfáry 9 and March 11, 1944.
                           
                                     use his endeavors to that effect. Accordingly,
                                    on the 8th Captain Wells, with a party of thirty-five Miami Indians with their pack
                                    horses, and one of our soldiers with five of the public horses, started to assisted
                                    Captain Heald in the evacuation of 
                                        Chicago
                                    . On the morning of the 19th one of the Indians that accompanied Captain
                                    Wells returned, bringing intelligence that on the morning of the 15th (or as he
                                    calculated time, four nights ago), Captain Heald and his company, with Captain
                                    Wells, were all cut off; the particulars of which he thus related. They arrived at 
                                        Chicago
                                     on the 13th, where were encamped then about 500 Indians of different
                                    tribes, some of whom were known to be at enmity with our government. Captain Wells
                                    being well acquainted with Indian customs, and seeing the difficulties likely to
                                    attend Captain Heald in getting away from his post, used every exertion in his power
                                    to effect an evacuation without the loss of men; he even gave up all the arsenal and
                                    magazine stores to satisfy their savage ferocity, but to no effect, and then agreed
                                    to deliver up all the cattle (about 100 head) and made them several other valuable
                                    presents in hopes of being permitted to depart in peace. The fatal morning arrived,
                                    and while the bloodthirsty savages were killing and dressing their beaves, the
                                    garrison was evacuated. Captains Heald and Wells marching in front, the baggage
                                    wagon next, the women and children next to it, followed by the soldiers and the
                                    thirty-five Indians with their pack horses bringing up the rear. They had not passed
                                    one mile from their little asylum when the alarm was given that the enemy, about 400
                                    in number, was close upon them. A kind of hollow square was formed immediately,
                                    encompassing the women and children, and two rounds fired, but being overpowered by
                                    numbers, the brave, the innocent fair and the helpless, fell a prey to the savage
                                    cruelty of the tomahawk and scalping knife. We have since been told by another
                                    Indian that Captain Heald and lady (both wounded), W. Flanzay and wife, Lieutenant
                                    Helms and wife, and nineteen soldiers were made prisoners and sent to 
                                        Detroit
                                    , from whence they are to be transported to Montreal or Quebec, with
                                    other prisoners taken at the capitulation, which perhaps you know more about than I
                                    do. Thus ends the fate of 
                                        Chicago
                                     and its worthy commander, the success of this post and the fate of its
                                    great worthy and intrepid commander.23
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            The value of 
                        Jordan
                    's letters may now be estimated. They do not add very much to what we knew from
                    the other accounts nor do they help materially the solution of any of the important problems
                    connected with the massacre. They confirm the confusion existing at the time of the massacre and the
                    brutality of the Indian attack. They agree with the accounts of Heald and Helm as to the approximate
                    location of the attack. They do not mention the distribution of the stores but refer to their
                    destruction. They add a detail about the fate of Captain Wells. Other accounts refer to his heart
                        
                  
                     23 Palmer, Early Days in 
                                    Detroit
                                
                     , 881-882. This is the letter by Captain D. Curtis referred to ante page 189.
               
                     being eaten by the chiefs, only 
                        Jordan
                     mentions his head being cut off and placed upon a pole. Since other narrators mentioned
                    that the heads of several victims were cut off, it is entirely possible that Wells suffered this
                    fate. They also tell 
                        Jordan
                    's experience which was unusual but not improbable. They are at least
                    additional contemporary, eyewitness accounts. They are not unique in being inaccurate and they do
                    give additional evidence of the intense hostility which some of the Indians felt towards the
                    Americans.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Midwest Pioneer, His Ills, Cures, & Doctors. By Madge E. Pickard and
                    R. Carlyle Buley. (
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana, R. E. Banta, 1945, pp. 339. $5.00.)
            In this volume the authors have made an interesting and valuable contribution to the social history
                    of the early Midwest.
            Much has been written of the contact of the pioneers with the Indians. But the Indian was a foe the
                    pioneer could see and understand, against whom he could organize, a foe he could drive out, or
                    exterminate. But in his ills the pioneer met a foe he could neither see nor understand, a foe that
                    might strike suddenly, and with frightful effect, incapacitating fifty per cent of a garrison or
                    settlement, a foe before which seventy per cent of the population of a town might flee in panic and
                    terror, a foe that took a death toll far exceeding that of Indian massacres and wars.
            In their preface the authors tell us the "book is a by-product of more extensive work in the
                    field of middle western history." As historians they have known where to seek for material
                    and how to document their findings. Though they state "the study makes no pretense at being
                    exhaustive," their reading has been extensive, as testified by a bibliography of hundreds
                    of titles filling eighteen pages.
            The authors tell the story of cholera creeping westward from 
                        India
                     to Moscow, Europe, 
                        England
                     and 
                        Ireland
                    , then by emigrant ship to Quebec and an invasion of North America in the early
                    1830's. They trace its invasion up the St. Lawrence to 
                        Buffalo
                    , 
                        Erie
                    , 
                        Detroit
                    , and 
                        Chicago
                    . Then they find the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal of July 28, 1832, listing one hundred and fifty cases with fifty deaths. A
                    little later having reached the 
                        Mississippi
                     and having come up the 
                        Ohio
                    , cholera was found in 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Madison
                    , and other river towns. We have the spectacle of cities being nearly depopulated as
                    people fled in blind terror from this disease. Though no cases appeared in Bloom-ington, due to the
                    dread of the disease there was no meeting of the Board of Trustees of Indiana University in that
                    year, 1832. Governor Noble proclaimed a day of fasting and prayers for the arrest of the disease.
            
                    Even to one having some knowledge of the state and conditions of medical practice in pioneer
                        days, the story as told by these authors in these three hundred beautifully printed pages,
                        leaves one amazed at the ignorance and superstitution, the false theories of disease and the
                        foolish remedies, as contrasted with medical practice of a brief century later.
                
            But the judgment of pioneer medical practice in the Midwest must not be too harsh. The authors quote
                    Dr. William H. Welch of Johns Hopkins as saying: "The best of these men were withal,
                    abreast in knowledge, training and skill with their contemporaries of the Atlantic coast."
                    It should be recalled that in the first half of the nineteenth century there was no knowledge of the
                    part played by microorganisms as a cause of disease or of sepsis in wounds or operations.
            An interesting feature of pioneer medical practice as portrayed 
                    in this book is the degree to which people became partisans of one or another of the numerous cults,
                    or systems of treatment. So prevalent was the hydrargyric propensity, especially in fevers that a
                    doctor who failed to conform was deemed in the popular mind guilty of malpractice.
                    Sappington's The Theory and Treatment of Fevers was published, 1844, in
                    an effort to induce an even more widespread use of quinine. The animosity between cults was so
                    intense that the on-looking public was much confused as to which was really the doctor, and which
                    the quack. Though temperance was advocated by some physicians, Dr. William Tichenor of 
                        Indianapolis
                     advertised, 1828, that: "His shop is two doors below Mr. Hawkin's
                    tavern, where he generally will be found, except when attending to professional business."
            Even among doctors few realize how extensive the lobelia inflata cult became, how many thousands
                    throughout the North, and South to the Gulf fell under the spell of Dr. Thompson, its chief
                    advocate. There was Dr. Carter with his hypo, and Dr. Buchanan with his organ of Sensibility, his
                    favorite bump. There were the Homeopaths with their billionth strength of dosage, the botanies, the
                    calomel doctors with their salivation, the Eclectics who for a long time played a prominent part in
                    medical education and practice. There were crosses between major cults and numerous other minor
                    cults, some of which were built on the supposed efficacy of a single remedy.
            The authors tell briefly of the efforts in medical education up to the second half of the nineteenth
                    century. Consultation in critical cases was very difficult to arrange. Self-reliance and
                    individualism were overdeveloped. This fact made cooperative effort, so necessary in medical
                    education, extremely difficult. Faculties were short-lived and were split apart by internal strife.
            The authors tell us of efforts in the early Middle West at licensure of physicians. In 
                        Ohio
                     we see legislation for regulation of medical practice enacted in 1821, repealed in
                    1824, re-enacted, criticized, and in 1833 again repealed, indicating lack of agreement among members
                    of the profession and confusion of legislators as to proper regulation of licensure.
            In Indiana there were legislative efforts at regulation of Medical Practice for thirty years prior to
                    1849 when the Indiana State Medical Society was revived, and from which date it has had continuous
                    existence and finally sponsored licensure.
            Yet ignorance slowly gave way to more rational views. The Journal of Health was
                    begun in 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1830. Dr. Dudley was among the first to stress boiling water in surgery, etc., etc.
            The text is free of the fine print which makes Garrison's An Introduction, to
                        the History of Medicine hard reading. There are fine print notes but they are found in
                    sixteen pages at the close of the book.
            The authors are to be congratulated on giving so much of detail in so readable a form. One has the
                    feeling they enjoyed its preparation. Most doctors and laymen will find the story in satisfying
                    detail. The few who wish to dig deeper will find their guide in the extensive bibliography.
            Burton D. Myers
         
         
         
            
               American Historical Societies, 1790-18110. By Leslie W. Dunlap.
                            (
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               , privately printed, 1944, pp. ix, 238. $3.50.)
            
               Historical Societies in the 
                            United States
                         and 
                            Canada
                        , a Handbook. Compiled and edited by Christopher Crittenden and Doris Godard. (
                        Washington
                    , D.C., American Association for State and Local History, 1944, pp. xi, 261.
                    $1.75 to members, $2.50 to non-members.)
            Leslie W. Dunlap, newly appointed Assistant Chief of the General Reference and Bibliography Division
                    of the Library of Congress, has compiled a very readable volume concerning the sixty-five American
                    historical societies organized before the Civil War. They were organized because "the
                    interest in the growth of the American nation was sufficiently strong and widespread to cause men in
                    all sections … to seek historical records. The young republic had no research libraries
                    to care for such material, so other agencies had to be established to perform this
                    function."
            As sources for the work, publications of the societies have been consulted but less generally known
                    facts have come from the correspondence files which contain much information about other historical
                    organizations. Within a week after the first meeting of the Indiana Historical Society on December
                    11, 1830, its secretary, John Hay Farnham of 
                        Salem
                    , was instructed to communicate with similar institutions. Farnham, who had been
                    extremely active in organizing the society, had been born in 
                        Massachusetts
                    , was a graduate of 
                        Harvard
                     and in 1831 became a corresponding member of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Historical Society. He was also a member of the American Antiquarian Society. It was
                    his correspondence with Nathan Dane of 
                        Beverly
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    , in 1831 that brought Dane's letter concerning the origin of the slave article
                    in the Ordinance of 1787, printed in the Society's Publications (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1897-), I, 69-70. Dane was made an honorary member of the Indiana society December 17,
                    1831. The sketch of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Historical and Antiquarian Society states that two years after its formation the
                    society sought to open correspondence with other societies of similar character. The third and last
                    historical group listed as formed in Indiana before 1860 is the Historical Society of the County of
                    Vigo, Indiana, which celebrated its first anniversary in 1844. A speech delivered on that occasion
                    by the Reverend Robert B. Croes seems to be the only surviving record of the society's
                    existence.
            Throughout this volume the author has stressed the size and growth of historical society libraries,
                    the scope of their materials, and their early printed catalogues, their performance in the early
                    eighteen hundreds of some of the functions of public libraries before these were so well
                    established. He also emphasized their use by such patrons as Elihu Burrit, the self-taught
                    "learned blacksmith" who acquired much of his knowledge from the American
                    Antiquarian Society library, Peter Force, who examined many collections in the preparation of his
                        American Archives, Benjamin Lossing, who often used the library of the 
                        New York
                     Historical Society while working on his Pictorial Field-book of the
                        Revolution, and many other famous and scholarly persons. Another less scholarly but
                    well-known patron was Mrs. E.D.E.N. Southworth  who asked the 
                        Maryland
                     Historical Society for information about Sir George Calvert whom she wished to make the
                    hero of a novel. Perhaps Capitola, the madcap maid, was to be the heroine. So great was the emphasis
                    upon the acquisition, preservation, and recording of materials that the first salaried staff member
                    of any of the societies was a librarian employed in 1818 by the 
                        New York
                     Association. These librarians seem to have been persons of considerable ability and
                    certainly of extraordinary devotion. Christopher Columbus Baldwin, that most zealous
                    collector-librarian, employed in 1832 by the American Antiquarian Society, asked in his diary
                    "But what right has a librarian to have any affection but for books and MSS? I doubt his
                    authority for any other love, even tho' it be for a beautiful lady."
            The experiences the Indiana Historical Society had in common with other organizations are cited
                    throughout. It is known that for a time election of members was omitted by the Indiana as well as
                    other societies. The Indiana society is listed among those once receiving state aid, having been
                    given a legislative appropriation of $500 in 1859. Lectures delivered before the
                    membership were said also to have been sometimes rambling with little reference to the local
                    community, but Judge John Law's address before the 
                        Vincennes
                     society required a second edition before 1860.
            Altogether more than five hundred printed works were issued by fifty-five organizations during- this
                    period despite great difficulties and the societies were also responsible for publication of
                    documentary materials by state and federal agencies.
            For those interested in a more detailed account of the Indiana Historical Society reference should be
                    made to James A. Woodburn, The Indiana Historical Society, a Hundred Years
                    (Indiana Historical Society Publications, X, 1933, pp. 5-42), a work not cited in
                    this volume.
            Prior to his association with the Library of Congress Mr. Dunlap was the Order Librarian of the
                    Library of the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and earlier was a member of the staff of the 
                        New York
                     Public Library. He is the editor of the Letters of Willis Gaylord Clark
                        and Lewis Gaylord Clark, twins who were with the Knickerbocker magazine,
                    Lewis as editor, 1834-1860, and Willis as associate editor, 1834-1841.
            Of the 65 societies established before 1861 about half are still active and are listed with the 904
                    American organizations recorded in the third edition of Historical Societies in the 
                            United States
                         and 
                            Canada
                        , a Handbook, issued by the American Association for State and Local History.
                    According to the editors, Indiana stands fourth in the number of societies following
                            
                  Pennsylvania, Massachusetts
               , and 
                        New York
                     in that order.
            In arrangement of the information, names of societies are arranged alphabetically under the states in
                    which they are located, with address, names of officers, staff on salary, membership, dues, and
                    annual income. Notes about libraries and their contents and some information about museums is given.
                    New features relate to hours open, whether or not duplicating facilities are available and the
                    official to whom correspondence should be addressed is indicated. An attempt has been made to list
                    publications but unfortunately there is  much less detailed
                    information as to dates, volume numbers and specific titles than in the previous edition, an
                    omission especially regrettable to order and exchange librarians attempting to complete files and to
                    serial cataloguers seeking bibliographical information. Omitted, too, have been the notes about the
                    housing of the societies.
            It is suggested that the editor of the next edition include more notes about ownership of historic
                    sites and a fuller description of library holdings unless some better description of special
                    libraries and collections has been issued than is now available. Usually collections are called by
                    the donor's name which does not always have much to do with content. It would be helpful,
                    too, if patriotic societies which publish historical materials could be included.
            The percentage of typographical errors seems fairly high. In the repeated phrase of a local radio
                    newsman "Hoosiers can always smile" and some of them laughed right out loud when
                    it was discovered that a local historical society was listed as located in 
                        Hells County
                     but the proofreader in 
                        Washington
                     must have been startled to discover that such a trick has been played upon a county
                    properly named Wells. Another of the obvious, or perhaps not so obvious, misprints in the Indiana
                    list is the spelling of Quistenon instead of Ouiatenon for the name of the French fort in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    . It should be noted, too, that it is Mrs. George W. Blair, not Mrs. George W. Bevin,
                    who is chairman of the Indiana Library and Historical Board. Various other errors in personal and
                    geographical names occur.
            Tools cited in the preface are the two previous editions of this handbook, the Handbook
                        of Learned Societies and Institutions, America, 1908, the American Library
                        Directory, 1942, the Handbook of American Museums, 1932, and Coleman, Museum in America, 1939, but no reference is made to Griffin, Bibliography of American Historical Societies, 1907, nor to the extremely useful Holbrook,
                        Survey of Activities of American Agencies in Relation to Materials for Research in
                        the Social Sciences and the Humanities, 1932, with its discussions of the historical
                    anthropological, archaeological and patriotic societies, university departments, libraries, museums,
                    and archival establishments.
            Nellie M. Coats
         
         
            
               A History of Oberlin College, From Its Foundation Through the Civil War. By
                    Robert Samuel Fletcher. (2 vols., Oberlin College, 
                        Oberlin
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , 1943, pp. xvii, xi, 1004. $5.00.)
            Written by a graduate who is now a member of its faculty, this history is both a scholarly work and a
                    labor of love. In many respects it is an ideal history of a college, ideal because Oberlin made
                    important contributions to many significant developments, because the author is so much a part of
                    Oberlin that he understands it thoroughly, because his love for his alma mater required of him the
                    best workmanship, and his scholarly training would be satisfied only with the highest standards.
                    Oberlin's record was great enough that unfortunate and unfavorable episodes and events
                    could be and were discussed  frankly. Historians of other
                    institutions will do well to study this work carefully. Oberlin was particularly important in the
                    Middle West, where it was intended to "civilize" the "desolate
                    valley," and where it spearheaded many reform movements. Oberlin's leadership in
                    the antislavery movement brought her prominence in the Civil War and Reconstruction and so her
                    history has national importance. Oberlin represented the Yankee invasion of the Middle West, not the
                    conservative culture of 
                        New England
                    , but rather the radical, unorthodox, crusading, uncompromising missionary element.
            The author found the roots of his college in the migration of New Englanders to the Middle West, the
                    revivalism of Charles G. Finney, the manual labor schools, the Oberlin colony, and the early
                    emancipation movement. The Lane revolt brought to Oberlin, the Lane Rebels, the support of Theodore
                    Weld, the money of Arthur and Lewis Tappan, the preaching of Charles G. Finney, and the precedent of
                    freedom of discussion and freedom from racial prejudice. In addition to abolitionism,
                    "God's College" became identified with perfectionism, evangelism,
                    pacificism, feminism, and dietary and physiological reform. Joint education of the sexes, the
                    training of the negroes in the same classes with white men and women, and the early attention to
                    agriculture and even to business training are among Oberlin's claims to distinction. With
                    reformers getting in each others way and one reform movement crowding hard upon the heels of
                    another, perhaps Finney's constant insistence upon evangelism and the saving of souls was
                    the salvation of the college as well as many of its students. In the Civil War, Oberlinites were
                    interested not so much in preserving the nation as in the opportunity it afforded to destroy
                    slavery. Having aided in civilizing the Middle West, and in saving 
                        Kansas
                    , Oberlin found in Reconstruction the prospect of converting and puritanizing the South.
                    Its energies went chiefly into the work of the Freedman's Bureau and in negro education,
                    and its leaders made no apologies for their support of the Republican party while carrying on their
                    official duties.
            This work is unusually free from misstatements of fact, typographical errors, or rank prejudices,
                    which sometimes mar historical works. The chief defect seems to be the long detailed narration and
                    description of student life and activity contained in the fourth book. To many, no doubt, these
                    chapters will appeal, but to others they may prove a strong incentive to lay the second volume aside
                    before they reach the significant concluding chapter in which is told the story of
                    Oberlin's progress towards orthodoxy and "respectability" and of the
                    nation's acceptance of many of Oberlin's pecularities as desirable and proper. The
                    workmanship expended upon these volumes is excellent and this includes footnotes, bibliography,
                    index, paper, printing, and proofreading. A more attractive binding might have been in order.
                    Oberlin is, undoubtedly, fortunate in its historian and its history.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
         
            
               New Viewpoints in 
                            Georgia
                         History. By Albert B. Saye. (
                  Athens, Georgia
               : University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1943, pp. vii, 256. $2.50.)
            This study of the origin and early development of 
                        Georgia
                     may well be termed a piece of historical revision, for Dr. Saye professedly sets out to
                    lay the popular myth of the founding of the colony primarily as a haven for prisoners and indigents
                    from 
                        England
                    's lower economic groups. Nearly one-half of this volume deals with a
                    restatement and partial reinterpretation of that early history of the founding and growth of 
                        Georgia
                     under its first charter.
            Professor Saye approached his task with capable hands. His two scholarly articles on the genesis of 
                        Georgia
                     history appeared in the 
                  
                            Georgia
                         Historical Quarterly in 1940, and in 1942 he edited the facsimile text of the
                    first 
                        Georgia
                     charter. Saye's investigations culminated in New Viewpoints in 
                            Georgia
                         History. Herein he sets out to disprove the old generalization that Oglethorpe
                    founded 
                        Georgia
                     as a colony for the relief of debtors languishing in English prisons. Several theses
                    emerge in Saye's reinterpretation of this generalization: many of the founding fathers were
                    members of Parliament, interested in trade and protection of the colonial frontier, as well as in
                    debtor relief; debtor relief was but one of the several schemes advanced as colonizing lures. This
                    concept of charity soon took on the proportions of aid not only to the poor and unemployed of all
                    sorts in 
                        England
                    , but of persecuted Protestants on the Continent as well. Actually, the best estimates
                    give only about a dozen released debtors as members of the early colonizing group.
            The frustrations and set-backs attendant upon colonization perhaps give the clew to the debtor-story
                    as the generalized gospel of 
                        Georgia
                    's origin. As enthusiasm waned among the majority of the Parliamentary group
                    associated with the founding of the colony, control was left largely "to a small group of
                    the more religious-minded Trustees." Perhaps this fact gave undue emphasis to the
                    philanthropic aspect of the colonizing motives. But any analysis of the ethnic constitution of the
                    early Georgian population completely dispels the "English Debtor" contention. The
                    early colonists were mainly persecuted Protestants and English of the "middle
                    poor." "There were Jews and Gentiles, English, Germans, Scotch, Irish, French,
                    Italians, Portuguese … Anglicans, Baptists, Presbyterians, Lutherans, Moravians
                    … graduates of 
                        Oxford
                     … and hundreds of illiterates … there were in general men and
                    women of all walks of life."
            Though stress is laid on the genesis of the 
                        Georgia
                     colony, Dr. Saye carries the story up to the attainment of statehood under the Federal
                    Union. General Oglethorpe's part in the story is adequately told, and his autocratic
                    disposition in reference to the regulation of life in the colony is brought out. The career of 
                        Georgia
                     as a royal colony is depicted, as well as her part in the War for Independence. The
                    construction of the state constitution in 1777 is analyzed in detail, as is in a lesser degree 
                        Georgia
                    's entrance into the Union in 1789.
            Throughout this study the author has maintained a good balance in his reliance on source and
                    secondary materials. As his bibliography  and notes indicate, he
                    was able to use manuscript material in the Public Record Office in 
                        London
                     as well as in the 
                        Georgia
                     archives. Annotations would have added to the usefulness of the bibliography.
            Robert H. Irrmann
         
         
            
               John Jacobus Flournoy, Champion of the Common Man in the Antebellum South. By E.
                    Merton Coulter. (
                        Savannah
                    , 
                        Georgia
                    : The 
                        Georgia
                     Historical Society, 1942, pp. vii, 112. $2.00.)
            Born of a strict, aristocratic French Huguenot background this very peculiar man sought throughout
                    most of his long life to champion the cause of the common man. In choosing such a course Flournoy
                    utilized his talents in generously criticizing many of the accepted institutions and customs of the
                    antebellum South. But the subject of this biography was no mere "pedlar of jeremaids, a
                    singer of songs of hate, a rabble rouser," he sought some constructive reforms.
            In order to place himself in a position to advocate reforms more successfully, Flournoy made three
                    unsuccessful races for the 
                        Georgia
                     legislature. He also sought conspicuous places in community life but always in vain.
                    Once having begun a career of agitation, by word and by pen, this eccentric person was as busy as
                    the proverbial bee. He wrote President Johnson in 1865: "I am always either reading or
                    working. Never idle."
            Mention can be made of only a few of the popular issues on which this reformer expressed himself. He
                    opposed Nullification, terming Calhoun a Cataline, and sought to keep the Cherokee
                    Indians in 
                        Georgia
                    . As early as 1833, he petitioned the legislature to create, an institute for the
                    education of the deaf and dumb. He was an ardent pacifist because, he said, "God does not
                    approve of war." He believed that the Negroes in America were a curse to the white race and
                    advocated their expulsion to Africa.
            Flournoy was a prolific writer of pamphlets and poems. The former were used as an agency of
                    propaganda for advocated reforms while the latter, as a rule, taught moral lessons. One result of
                    these literary efforts was an interest in the curriculum of the University of 
                        Georgia
                    . He hoped for more emphasis on English and less on Latin and Greek.
            The author has done an excellent job in research, footnoting, bibliography, and index. Regrettably,
                    the footnotes are in the back of the book.
            George C. Osborn
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            GENEALOGICAL MATERIAL IN ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INDIANA
            MRS. GRACE OSTERHUS
            
            Yes, the northern part of the state has ancestor hunters, too. The genealogical corner of the Local
                    History Department of the 
                        South Bend
                     Public Library is a popular place although its volumes are limited. To supplement this
                    collection, the files of old newspapers, dating back to 1831, are consulted at the Northern Indiana
                    Historical Museum and the records of marriages, wills, and deeds are searched at the courthouse.
            The "Index to Marriages in 
                        St. Joseph County
                    ," dates back to 1832. Volume one, an old, worn book with a very loose cover,
                    disappeared several years ago. In some clean-up process at the courthouse it must have been
                    discarded as useless—another instance of the loss of valuable material through
                    carelessness or ignorance. Very few of the family names in the early index are well-known names in
                    the community today. The ones that are known have been written into 
                        South Bend
                     history as "Founders." Many French names appear in the old records;
                    Madore Cratee, for example, whose marriage was recorded on page 36 of the lost book. His name is
                    inseparably connected with the St. Joseph River. As captain of the freight
                    boat, "Fairplay," the story of his life is the story of the St. Joseph
                        River in its days of navigation.
            The "Deeds of 
                        St. Joseph County
                    " are on file back to 1831 and the "Mortgages" date back to
                    1833. It is very fitting that the first property transfer in the book should concern Alexis
                    Coquillard, his wife Frances, and Samuel Hanna. It was Coquillard and Lathrop Taylor, Samuel
                    Hanna's brother-in-law, who laid out the town of 
                        South Bend
                    . From old deeds one can often establish family relationships but it takes careful
                    reading of these documents. The property may be referred to as "that which I received from
                    my brother William" or "that which I received by will from my father."
                    Now and then a complete abstract is given on an old deed as, "this being the property
                    received by Elizabeth Smith as her dower right from the Court of Common Pleas and bequeathed by will
                    to her eldest son Samuel, who in turn willed it to his son John," etc.
            
            
               
                        St. Joseph County
                    's earliest recorded will seems to be that of James Ireland, of the county of
                    Cass in the Territory of 
                        Michigan
                    , dated tenth day of March, 1832. If you can find an ancestor who made a will mentioning
                    each one of his children, his father and mother, and his wife's maiden name, you are in
                    luck. So often, through death or dissension in the family, the names of one or two of the children
                    were omitted when the bequests were handed out. In spite of the "uncertainty of this mortal
                    life," and the "sound and perfect memory" of the testator, wills can be
                    very confusing to the genealogical worker. While furniture, cattle, lands, and cash are listed with
                    great accuracy, the name you are looking for may be missing.
            The Public Library in 
                        South Bend
                     has the enumerator's copy of the 1880 Census of 
                        St. Joseph County
                    . This volume, discarded from the courthouse, is a very valuable book. It has proved
                    more than one old-age pensioner's right to a pension as it gives the age of each 
                        St. Joseph County
                     resident at the time the census was taken.
            The Local History Department has a file of over 6,500 biographies of 
                        St. Joseph County
                     and Indiana residents and 180 histories of the northern Indiana counties; these have
                    been very useful to genealogists. The genealogy section in this department boasts only a few
                    individual family genealogies, but many a searcher has found clews among such helpful books and
                    magazines as the following:
            
               Charles T. Libby, Genealogical Dictionary of 
                                Maine
                             and 
                                New Hampshire
                            
                   (5 pts. 
                     Portland, Maine
                  , 1928-1938).
               James Savage, A Genealogical Dictionary of the First Settlers of 
                                New England
                            , showing Three Generations of those who came before May, 1692, on the basis of
                            Farmer's Register (4 vols., 
                            Boston
                        , 1860-1862).
               I. Daniel Rupp, A Collection of Upwards of Thirty Thousand Names of German,
                            Swiss, Dutch, French and Other Immigrants in 
                                Pennsylvania
                             from 1727 to 1776 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1898).
               Marvin V. Koger, Index to the Names of 30,000 Immigrants, German, Swiss, Dutch
                            and French into 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 1727-1776, Supplementing The I. Daniel Rupp, Ship Load Volume (n.p.,
                        1935, mimeographed).
               Alfred S. Roe, Rose Neighborhood Sketches, 
                                Wayne County
                            , 
                                New York
                            ; with glimpses of the adjacent towns: 
                                Butler
                            , Wolcott, Huron, Sodus, Lyons and Savannah (
                     Worcester, Massachusetts
                  , 1893).
               Gustav Anjou, Ulster County, N. Y. Probate Records in the office of the
                            surrogate, and in the county clerk's office at 
                                Kingston
                            , 
                                N. Y.
                            
                   … (
                            New York
                        , 1906). 
                        
                     
                                Pennsylvania
                             Archives (9 series, 119 vols., 
                     Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
                  , 1852-1935).
               William W. Hinshaw, Encyclopedia of American 
                                Quaker
                             Genealogy (3 vols., 
                     Ann
                            Arbor, Michigan
                  ,
                        1936-1940).
               Frederick A. Virkus (ed.), The Compendium, of American Genealogy
                        … (7 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1925-1942).
               Frederick A. Virkus (ed.), The Handbook of American Genealogy (4 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1932-1943).
               
                  Early Settlers of 
                                New York
                             State, their Ancestors and Descendants (
                            Akron
                        , 
                            New York
                        , 1934-). The title varies since numbers one through five of Volume I carry the
                        title of Early Settlers of Western 
                                New York
                            .
               
               
                  Indiana Magazine of History (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1905-).
               
                  Historical Collections … 
                                Michigan
                             Pioneer and Historical Society (40 vols., 
                            Lansing
                        , 
                            Michigan
                        , 1877-1929), 1874-1915.
               
                  Americana (
                            New York
                        , 1906-), 1932-1943.
               
                  Old Northwest Genealogical Quarterly (15 vols., 
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  , 1898-1912.
               Mrs. Roscoe C. O'Byrne (comp.), Roster of Soldiers and Patriots of the
                            American Revolution buried in Indiana (n.p., 1938).
               Daughters of the American Revolution, Official Roster of the Soldiers of the
                            American Revolution buried in 
                                Ohio
                            
                   (
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  , 1929).
               Harry Wright Newman, 
                     
                                Maryland
                             Revolutionary Records (
                            Washington
                        , 1938).
               John H. Gwathmey, Historical Register of Virginians in the
                            Revolution—Soldiers, Sailors, and Marines, 1775-1783 (
                            Richmond
                        , 1938).
               
                  National Historical Magazine (
                            Washington
                        , 1892-), 1929-1944.
            
            The local chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution gives the Library the last-mentioned
                    magazine and has placed many of its lineage books and other valuable genealogical material in the
                    Local History Department. Through their efforts some of the local church and cemetery records have
                    been copied.
            Among other useful books in the library are the following:
            
               Arthur C. Fox-Davies, A Complete Guide to Heraldry (
                            London
                        , 1929).
               John B. Burke, A Genealogical and Heraldic Dictionary of the Peerage and
                            Baronetage together with Memoirs of the Privy Councillors and Knights (
                            London
                        , 1890).
               John B. Burke, Burke's Genealogical and Heraldic History of the Peerage,
                            Baronetage and Knightage, Privy Council and Order of Precedence (
                            London
                        , 1938).
               John B. Burke, Burke's Genealogical and Heraldic History of the Landed
                            Gentry including American Families with British Ancestry (
                            London
                        , 1939).
               James Fairbairn (comp.), Fairbairn's Crests of the Leading Families in
                            Great Britain and 
                                Ireland
                             and their Kindred in other Lands (two volumes in one, 
                            New York
                        , 1911).
            
            
            And several other books of this type, not so well known, afford endless delight to the student of
                    heraldry.
         
         
            DEARBORN COUNTY MARRIAGE RECORDS, 1806-1815
            Compiled by ALAMEDA MCCOLLOUGH
            
            A collection of 
                        Dearborn County
                    , Indiana Territory, marriage licenses from 1806 to 1815 were presented to the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Association by Mrs. J. L. Caldwell, formerly of 
                        Lafayette
                     but now of 
                        San Diego
                    , 
                        California
                    . They were inherited by her with other papers and effects from her great-grandfather,
                    William Major, who was born in 
                        Chester County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , December 27, 1766. Emigrating to 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , in 1795,
                    he crossed over to Indiana Territory in 1801 and settled on the Whitewater River in what is now 
                        Dearborn County
                    .
            On March 7, 1803, William Major was appointed by Governor William Henry Harrison as justice of the
                    peace of 
                        Dearborn County
                    ; from December 14, 1805 to December 31, 1813, he was a member of the court of common
                    pleas, and served as an associate judge of the circuit court from January 6, 1814 to February 14,
                        1817.1 He came to 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     in 1830, and in 1832 was the founder of a village in 
                        Lauramie
                     Township which he called "
                        Monroe
                    ." 
                        Monroe
                     enjoyed a brisk growth until the 
                  Madison, Indianapolis
                Railroad to 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1853 by-passed it and left it to ultimate decline. William Major died March 14,
                    1845, and is buried in the family lot at the 
                        Monroe
                     Cemetery but a stone's throw from 
                        United States
                     Highway 52.
            In the following list of some of the 
                        Dearborn County
                     Marriage Records from 1806 to 1815, the "L" indicates the date on
                    which the license was issued and the "M" the date of the marriage:
            
               Richard T. Gayness to Catherine Vincent, L, 9-1-1806.
               Williams Eads to Jane Adair, L, 1-10-1807.
               James Remy to Rebeckah Adair, L, 2-10-1807.
               John Alverstatz to Charlotte Shank, L, 10-3-1807.
               Enoch McCarty to Elizabeth Logan, L, 10-10-1807.
               James Logan to Liddy McCarty, L, 11-28-1807. 
                     
                        1 Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy L. Riker (eds.), Laws
                                    of Indiana Territory, 1809-1816 (Indiana Historical Collections, XX, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1934), 836; William W. Woollen, Daniel W. Howe, and Jacob P. Dunn (eds.),
                                    Executive Journal of Indiana Territory, 1800-1816, Indiana
                                Historical Society Publications (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1897-), III (1905), 117, 205, 221.
                  
                    
               
               Moses Battiest to Fanny Stout, L, 12-7-1807.
               Eli Scotton to Isabella McElvy, L, 12-26-1807.
               John Norris to Rebeccah Skinner, L, 4-11,1808.
               Jacob Bullock to Betsy Edwards, L, 12-1-1809.
               William Simmons to Nancy Kyger, L, 1-10-1810.
               Benoni Richards to Ruth Adair, L, 4-14-1810.
               Asa Rollf to Celany Eads, L, 5-28-1810, M, 6-7-1810.
               William Fred to Abigail Rockaffer, L, 10-30-1810, M. 10-31-1810.
               Samuel Johnston to Betsy Farran, L, 11-6-1810, M, 11-8-1810.
               James Wiley to Elizabeth Williams, L, 4-6-1811, M, 4-7-1811.
               Henry Myers to Lucinda Munday, L, 10-29-1812, M, 11-6-1812.
               (All of the above licenses were issued by Samuel C. Vance, Clerk.)
               James Hardin to Catharine Cloud, L, 9-15-1813, M, 9-16-1813.
               James Terrell Cornelius to Jane Cloud, L, 10-30-1813, M, 11-25-1813.
               James Gauloiune to Charlotte Marchant, L, 5-10-1814, M, 6-9-1814. by William Major, Justice of
                        the Peace.
               Simeon Razor to Polly Allensworth, L, 10-29-1814, M, 11-10-1814.
               David Garey to Prudence White, L, 12-17-1814, M, 12-22-1814, by William Major.
               Warren Tibbs to Elizabeth Ashby, L, 1-26-1815, M, 1-29-1815, by William Major.
               Michael Farrand to Sarah Fowler, L, 2-10-1815, M, 2-23-1815, by William Major.
               Joseph Parks to Sarah Johnston, L, 3-22-1815, M, 4-27-1815, by William Major.
               William Allen to Elizabeth Eades, L, 9-5-1815, M, 9-7-1815, by William Major.
               (All of the above licenses were issued by James Dill, Clerk).
            
         
         
            OBITUARIES IN THE WESTERN CHRISTIAN ADVOCATE
            
                    MARGARET R. WATERS
                
            The Genealogical Records Committee of the Caroline Scott Harrison Chapter of the Daughters of the
                    American Revolution, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is abstracting the obituaries and marriages from the Western Christian
                        Advocate, a Methodist newspaper which has been published weekly at 
                        Cincinnati
                     since May 2, 1834. The bound volumes were borrowed through the Indiana State Library
                    from the DePauw University Library, one of the few libraries in the 
                        United States
                     which has an almost complete file. Although a Methodist paper, some obituaries and
                    marriages of persons of other denominations are included. In the case of the obituaries of
                    Methodists, the church affiliation of the parents is sometimes given; this information is included
                    in the abstracts as it may  be helpful to genealogists in
                    finding baptismal or other church records.
            Most of the obituaries., especially the earlier ones, are full of the religious history of the
                    deceased and his family. Some quite lengthy accounts furnish little of a genealogical nature while
                    others, perhaps much shorter, have a wealth of information. Unfortunately for descendants, the
                    persons writing the obituaries often failed to give information available at the time which would be
                    invaluable now. Following are two sample abstracts, picked at random, to show the type of
                    information which may be found: 
                        IRENA MITCHELL, b. Sep. 2, 1791, Chesterfield, N.H.; d. Jan. 15, 1845, 
                                Pekin
                            , 111.; dau. of Mr. Bigelow; m. Mar. 1813, Joseph Mitchell, Jr.; son of late
                            Rev. Joseph Mitchell. Issue: 10 children (7 dead). Sister of late Rev. Russell Bigelow of 
                                Ohio
                             Conference; family to 
                                Ohio
                             in 1813. Vol. 12, p. 8 (April 25, 1845).
                        GEORGE WILL, d. Mar. 27, 1845, in 72d year, 
                                Adelphi
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            ; m. about 1795. Number of children not given. In Gen. Wayne's Army in
                            1794; wounded in battle of Maumee; in 1796-97 to Scioto Valley, 12 to 15 miles N. E. of 
                                Chillicothe
                            , O.; in War of 1812; 1st It. 26th regt., U. S. inf.; in 1815 to Adelphi, O.;
                            postmaster; 
                                Ohio
                             legislature. Vol. 12, p. 8 (April 25, 1845).
                    
                
            Most of the obituaries tell about the family migrations; this information is included in the
                    abstracts as a help to tracing families through census records or land entries. Some obituaries are
                    merely death notices and contain no genealogical helps at all—not even the exact date or
                    place of death. These are included, however, as they will give an approximate idea of the time and
                    place of death. The earlier obituaries were usually signed with the name of the writer, his place of
                    residence, and the date of writing. Too much reliance cannot be placed on locating a person by such
                    clews, however, for one of the writer's great-great-grandmothers died in 
                        Coshocton County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and her obituary was written and signed by a 
                        Hancock County
                    , Indiana, minister who knew the family.
            Not many marriages are listed. The earlier volumes have one or two per year. Later volumes give only
                    marriages of ministers; some volumes have none at all. Up to January 1, 1945, nine volumes have been
                    completed covering the years between 1834 and 1847. Volumes for some of these years are not
                    available. The abstracted material (covering about 3,700 deaths and 450 marriages) is being typed
                    and bound. One copy will be placed in the Genealogy Room, Indiana State Library.
         
         
         
            PUBLICATION OF QUAKER RECORDS
            
                    DOROTHY L. RIKER
                
            The following information regarding the status of publication of 
                        Quaker
                     records has been extracted from a recent letter of William Wade Hinshaw to Miss Anna
                    Poucher of the Genealogy Room, Indiana State Library. Three volumes of the Encyclopedia
                        of American 
                            Quaker
                         Genealogy, compiled under the supervision of Mr. Hinshaw, have been published
                    up to the present time. These volumes contain records of 
                        Quaker
                     Meetings in 
                  North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia
               ,
                    and 
                        Tennessee
                    , and a portion of the records from 
                  Virginia, Pennsylvania, Delaware, New Jersey
               ,
                    and 
                        New York
                    . Later volumes are in preparation.
            
               
                        Ohio
                     Records
            The 
                        Ohio
                     records have been compiled and will be ready for the printer as soon as the index is
                    completed. They will make two volumes of some thirteen hundred pages each of closely tabulated data
                    and will give information regarding more than a million persons. It was originally intended to
                    publish the 
                        Virginia
                     records as Volume IV of the Encyclopedia, but finding that the 
                        Ohio
                     material was nearer completion, it was decided to publish it as Volumes IV and V and
                    the 
                        Virginia
                     material as Volume VI.
            The 
                        Ohio
                     records are of more immediate importance to the genealogy of Indiana than those of 
                        Virginia
                    , though not ultimately so. To trace a genealogical line it is necessary to begin
                    "at home" and trace the lines backward, in order that errors may be avoided and to
                    make it possible to reach the proper families some ten or twelve generations back. In a great
                    majority of cases, two or three brothers immigrated together, bringing wives and children; these
                    children, first cousins and of the same generation, often bore almost identical names thus making
                    identification uncertain and often entailing endless research if one tries to start with the
                    immigrating family.
            While many 
                        Quaker
                     families migrated directly to Indiana from the Atlantic Coast states, the majority of
                    the early 
                        Quaker
                     families of Indiana migrated first to 
                        Ohio
                    ; from thence members of the second or later generations moved to Indiana. The fact that
                    it became almost impossible for  young people to marry in their
                    own Meetings after about 1770 because of restrictions against marriage between those who were of
                    "too near relation," made migration to new territory imperative to families in the
                    Eastern states. Many of these Friends would not move to the Southern states because of their
                    aversion to slavery, so they migrated to western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and then to 
                        Ohio
                    , as soon as that territory was opened to settlement.
            Until 1802, when Concord Monthly Meeting was established in eastern 
                        Ohio
                    , all families migrating to 
                        Ohio
                     Territory left their certificates of removal with one of four Monthly Meetings in
                    western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    —Westland, Redstone, 
                        Providence
                    , and Sewickley. Because of this close connection with 
                        Ohio
                    , the records of these four Meetings are to be published in the same volumes with the 
                        Ohio
                     records. After the establishment of Concord Monthly Meeting in 
                        Ohio
                    , and a little later of Miami Monthly Meeting, Friends already living in 
                        Ohio
                     had their certificates transferred to one of these two Meetings. Persons coming after
                    1802 could deposit their certificates directly with an 
                        Ohio
                     Monthly Meeting. 
                        Eastern Ohio
                     was quickly populated with 
                        Quaker
                     families and several new Monthly Meetings were soon established.
            In their new location, children of 
                        Quaker
                     families from one section of the country met and married children of families from
                    another section, thus making 
                        Ohio
                     the great 
                        Quaker
                     melting pot of America. This is of extreme importance to persons engaged in
                    genealogical research. 
                        Ohio
                     became the center of a sort of double fan, one part of which reached back to the
                    Atlantic Coast states, while the other spread out toward Indiana, 
                  Michigan, Illinois
               ,
                    and other states to the westward. Although some families migrated to 
                        Kentucky
                    , there were no early Meetings there; all Quakers living in 
                        Kentucky
                     deposited their certificates of removal with 
                        Ohio
                     Monthly Meetings. The 
                        Quaker
                     discipline regarding marriage made no distinction between Friends of different European
                    nationalities. As a result, descendants of 
                        Quaker
                     ancestors usually have one or more strains of English, Dutch, Welsh, Scotch, and German
                    blood in their veins and occasional strains of Swedish and French Rhineland blood. The Quakers who
                    came to this country from 
                        Ireland
                     were almost exclusively of English blood and origin.
            All 
                        Quaker
                     genealogical records are recorded in the  Monthly
                    Meeting books. These include certificates of removal, disownments, members received on request,
                    births, marriages, and deaths. The records of members of Preparative Meetings and of Meetings for
                    Worship are recorded in the books of the Monthly Meeting to which they were attached. When a new
                    Monthly Meeting is established, its boundaries are definitely set out, and all members of the
                    Monthly Meetings who live within the boundaries of the new Meeting are automatically transferred
                    (usually without certificates) to this new Monthly Meeting. Although a family may have always lived
                    in the same place, it may have belonged to two or more Monthly Meetings. This is illustrated in a
                    recent letter which Mr. Hinshaw received, telling of certain persons living near Stillwater Meeting
                    in 
                        Ohio
                     who were married in 1806. Their children's births were recorded in the
                    Stillwater Monthly Meeting book but their marriage was not recorded there. The answer was simple:
                    Stillwater Monthly Meeting was not established until 1808; Stillwater Preparative Meeting was in
                    existence in 1806 and was attached to Concord Monthly Meeting; the marriage in question was recorded
                    in 
                        Concord
                     Monthly Meeting although consummated in the Stillwater Meeting House. Another point to
                    be remembered is that marriages are recorded in the books of the Monthly Meeting to which the bride
                    belongs.
            
               
                        Virginia
                     Records
            The records of all 
                        Virginia
                     Monthly Meetings have been compiled except those of Fairfax Meeting in 
                        Loudoun County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    . It is hoped that the material from this state may be completed and sent to the printer
                    in 1945.
            Indiana Records
            The Indiana Records were copied between 1930 and 1933. One book that is missing, and has not been
                    copied, is that of the West Grove Monthly Meeting in 
                        Hamilton County
                    . It was inadvertently sold to a secondhand dealer some years ago with the personal
                    library of a former custodian. According to the latest report, it had been resold to an antique
                    dealer in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It is hoped that it will be recovered in time to be included in the publication of
                    Indiana 
                        Quaker
                     records and thereafter restored to its rightly place with the other records of West
                    Grove Meeting.
            
            Records of Other States
            The records of many of the Meetings in 
                  Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, New York, Vermont
               , and some in 
                        Connecticut
                     have been copied. In the West, the records of all Monthly Meetings in
                            
                  Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Arizona
               ,
                    and a portion of those of 
                  Nebraska, California, Idaho
               , and 
                        Texas
                     have also been copied. These include the records of Orthodox, Hicksite, Primitive,
                    Conservative, and other sects of Friends.
            Research
            While awaiting the publication of future volumes of the Encyclopedia, requests for
                    research in the records of various states may be addressed to the persons listed below. No research
                    work of any kind can be done in 
                        Washington
                     by the editorial staff of the Encyclopedia.
            
            
               Indiana records: Mrs. J. E. McMullan, Huntingdon, Indiana.
               
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                         records:
                     Chester Monthly Meeting, Orthodox, Rebecca Smedley, Media, 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                ; Hicksite, E. Virginia Walker, Friends Historical Library, 
                                    Swarthmore
                                , 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                .
                     Kennett Monthly Meeting, E. Virginia Walker
                     For most other Orthodox records in 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                , Mrs. Eleanor Melson, 302 Arch Street, 
                                    Philadelphia
                                .
                     For general search in 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                    Quaker
                                 records, Joseph Cope, Box 71, 
                           West
                                        Chester, Pennsylvania
                        , is a competent genealogist and has much material at
                                hand.
                  
               
               
                  
                            New York
                         records: John Cox, Jr., 7 East 42nd Street, 
                            New York City
                        .
               
                  
                            New Jersey
                         records: E. Virginia Walker, Friends Historical Library, 
                            Swarthmore
                        , 
                            Pennsylvania
                         (for Meetings in southern 
                            New Jersey
                        ).
               
                  
                            Virginia
                         records: Douglas Summers 
                            Brown
                        , 214 North 26th Street, 
                     Richmond,
                                Virginia
                   (for Meetings in southern 
                            Virginia
                        ); Harriett P. Marine, St. Pauls Apartments, 
                     Baltimore, Maryland
                  
                        (for Meetings in northern 
                            Virginia
                        , also for 
                            Maryland
                         records).
               
                  
                            New England
                         records: Moses Brown School, 
                     Providence, Rhode Island
                  ; 
                            New England
                         Historic-Genealogical Society, 9 Ashburton Place, 
                            Boston
                        .
            
         
         
         
            List of Contributors
            William O. Lynch is a professor emeritus of Indiana University and former editor of the Indiana Magazine of History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Elfrieda Lang is research and editorial assistant of the Indiana War History Commission, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Marie Johnston is a teacher at Forest Park School, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana.
            Mrs. Adah Jackson is a resident of 
                        Newburgh
                    , Indiana.
            Howard H. Peckham is the director of the Indiana Historical Bureau and secretary of the Indiana
                    Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
            John D. Barnhart is an associate professor of history at Indiana University and editor of the Indiana Magazine of History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Burton D. Myers is dean emeritus of the School of Medicine at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Nellie M. Coats is the chief cataloguer at the Indiana State Library and librarian of the Indiana
                    Academy of Science, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
            Robert H. Irrmann is a graduate student in the Department of History at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            George C. Osborn is professor of history and acting head of the Department of Social Sciences at 
                        Memphis
                     State College, 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               .
            Mrs. Grace Osterhus is in charge of the Local History Department, 
                        South Bend
                     Public Library, 
                        South Bend
                    , Indiana.
            Alameda McCollough is the curator of the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Association, 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana.
            Margaret R. Waters is a teacher at Arsenal Technical High School, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
            Dorothy L. Riker is research assistant at the Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
