
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 107, Issue 4, pages 289-403. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:107+issue:4+year:2011&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
        


            
            
                The League and the Law Arthur L. Gilliom and the Problem ofDue
                    Process in Prohibition-Era Indiana
                ANN GILLIOM VERBEEK
                The decade of the 1920s was anything but a dull period in Indiana politics. Hoosiers struggled with Prohibition;
                    two politically powerful organizations, the Anti-Saloon League and the Ku Klux
                    Klan, both exerted exceptional influence in Indiana politics;
                    and corruption was widespread throughout state and local government. The ensuing
                    political turmoil included clashes within and between both political parties,
                    between wets and drys, within the Klan, and between the Klan and those who
                    opposed it. The trials of Klan leader D. C. Stephenson, two governors, a mayor,
                    other elected officials, and the superintendent of the IndianaAnti-Saloon League
                    (IASL) were local sensations that drew national attention, as well. These
                    issues, individuals, and organizations overlapped in significant ways, creating
                    a perfect storm of political turbulence in 1920s Indiana. It was in
                    this political environment that Arthur L. Gilliom served as the state's
                    twenty-fifth attorney 
                        The author thanks all who helped make this article a reality: Leonard
                            J. Moore; Thomas R. Pegram (for providing an off-print of his article,
                            "Hoodwinked"); the staff and archivists at the Indianapolis
                            Public Library, Indiana State Library, Indiana State Archives,
                            University of Texas-Tyler Library (in particular, Penny Reynolds,
                            Interlibrary Services), DePauw University, and Goshen College; the IMH
                            editorial staff and outside reader; and my family (in particular, my
                            husband, Gerald).
                    
                     general from 1925 until 1929.1 This article considers Gilliom's place amidst the tensions of
                    the era by focusing on his relations with the IASL and its superintendent, Rev.
                    Edward S. Shumaker. In that relationship, we find a compelling example of the
                    challenge of advocating and upholding basic individual liberties during a time
                    of great public pressure to advance popular social or moral values. Although the
                    events that brought Gilliom and Shumaker into open conflict occurred eighty-five
                    years ago, they still illustrate well the political and legal dilemmas which can
                    arise whenever those in government attempt to limit individual freedoms in the
                    name of the common good of society.
                Arthur Luther Gilliom was born on a farm in a small Swiss community in
                            Hickory
                            County, Missouri, on
                    August 2, 1886, to Peter and Rachel (Lehman) Gilliom, the tenth of fourteen
                    children. Following several consecutive failed harvests, the family returned to
                            Adams
                            County, Indiana, where his
                    mother's family had originally settled. Just before his twenty-first
                    birthday, and much against his parents' wishes, Gilliom left the farm
                    determined to pursue his education at a higher level than the instruction he had
                    received in a rural one-room schoolhouse. From 1907 to 1910 he attended the
                    small, Mennonite Church-supported Goshen College, working during the summers to
                    pay his own expenses. On completing the necessary courses at
                            Goshen, he made his way to
                            Ann
                            Arbor to attend the University of Michigan Law
                    School, from which he graduated with an LLB degree on May 6, 1913. Admitted to
                    the Michigan and Indiana bars in
                    that same year, Gilliom moved to South Bend,
                            Indiana, to practice law. In addition to the
                    increasingly successful legal career that followed, Gilliom became active in the
                    Republican Party; he was much in demand as a campaign speaker and performed
                    organizational and committee work. In 1922, he was nominated for justice of the
                    peace but failed to be elected. The next year he successfully argued a case
                    before the Indiana Supreme Court regarding the constitutionality of an
                    automobile licensing law, saving millions of 
                        1 R. L. Duffus, "Behind the Strange Spectacle
                            that Now Occupies the Hoosier State," New York
                                Times, October 2, 1927, pp. 1,3; Thomas R. Pegram,
                            "Hoodwinked: The Anti-Saloon League and the Ku Klux Klan in 1920s
                            Prohibition Enforcement," Journal of the Gilded Age
                                and Progressive Era 7 (January 2008), 115; Leonard J. Moore,
                                Citizen Klansmen: The Ku Klux Klan in Indiana,
                            1921-1928 (Chapel Hill,
                                    N.C., 1991), 6-11; Don
                            Cosby, "What really happened at the Round Barn? - Part 1 of
                            3," Washington (Ind.) Times Herald, January 31,
                            2010.
                    
                     dollars for Hoosier automobile owners and
                    gaining statewide recognition in the process.2
                In 1924 Gilliom declared his candidacy for office of attorney general, joining
                    fellow Republicans Wilbur Ryman of Muncie (a
                    Klansman who was thought to have the support of party leaders James E. Watson
                    and Edward Jackson) and Edward M. White (who had the support of many from the
                    old Republican organization). At the time, the Hoosier Republican Party, long
                    plagued by factional rivalry, was further riven by a power struggle between two
                    factions of the Hoosier Klan: one led by David C. Stephenson, the other by
                    Walter E Bossert. Both Klan leaders had attached themselves to powerful
                    Republicans, with Stephenson supporting old guard Sen. James E. Watson and
                    Bossert aligning himself with the Harry S. New-James P. Goodrich-Will H. Hays
                    faction of the state party. Republicans disagreed over how to handle the
                    delicate and divisive Klan issue itself; while aspiring candidates realized that
                    Klan endorsement could aid their bids for office, party leaders were cognizant
                    of the negative repercussions likely to arise if anti-Klan voters perceived
                    Republicans as being too closely affiliated with the order. Watson, while
                    availing himself of Stephenson's support, always maintained that he was not
                    a Klansman and had no personal interest in the organization. Simultaneously
                    avoiding the alienation of both the Ku Klux Klan and anti-Klan voters was tricky
                    business, and taking a stand on the issue was something the Republicans sought
                    to avoid, eventually agreeing to omit any "direct reference" to the
                    Klan in the party platform. 3
                
                    2Biography of Arthur L. Gilliom,
                        Citizens Historical Association, Clippings File-Gilliom-Citizens Historical
                        Association, Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, Indianapolis, Indiana; Nancy B. Gilliom, Biography
                            of Arthur L. Gilliom (n.p., n.d.), in possession of the author.
                        Upon graduation from the Academy and Oratory Programs at Goshen College,
                        Gilliom received diplomas or certificates but did not receive a
                        college-level degree. Correspondence from Joe A. Springer, Curator,
                        Mennonite Historical Library, Goshen College, September 27, 2010.
                        "Gilliom is Qualified," South Bend Tribune,
                        October 24, 1924, p. 8; "Gillliom Scheduled to Deliver Three Speeches
                        Tuesday," Indianapolis Star, October 26, 1924, p. 22;
                        John B. Chester, "Gilliom Wins Nomination on Second Ballot," South Bend Tribune, May 23, 1924, pp. 1-2; "Arthur
                        Gilliom on Republican State Ticket," South Bend
                            News-Times, May 23, 1924, pp. 1-2; "Gilliom Attorney General
                        Nominee: Local Lawyer Wins Place on State Ticket," South
                            Bend News-Times, May 23, 1924, p. 1.
                    3John Braeman, Albert J. Beveridge:
                            American Nationalist (Chicago,
                        1971), 270, 301, 325; "Control of State G.O.P. Organization is Primary
                        Prize," Indianapolis Star, May 5, 1924, p. 1; Maurice
                        Early, "G.O.P Candidates Lining Up Forces for Convention," Indianapolis Star, May 18, 1924, p. 1; "Proposed
                        Changes in Primary Law Argued by G.O.P," Indianapolis
                            Star, April 11, 1924, p. 1; "Watson Denies Tieup with Klan at
                        Convention," Indianapolis Star, May 24, 1924, p. 1;
                        James H. Madison, Indiana through Tradition and Change: A
                            History of the Hoosier State and Its People, 1920-1945
                                (Indianapolis,
                                Ind., 1982), 59, 75; "G.O.P to have no
                        Primary Law Plank," Indianapolis Star, May 20, 1924,
                        p. 1.
                
                
                Although Ryman's likelihood of winning the nomination had seemed, at first,
                    overwhelming, his obvious backing by both factions of the Klan and his known
                    affiliation with the order proved in the end to be detrimental. Watson and other
                    leaders made it clear that having a slate "overloaded" with known
                    Klansmen would risk alienating anti-Klan voters. Their tack divided the
                    Watson-Stephenson ranks and resulted in last-minute campaigning against
                        Ryman.4
                Gilliom's supporters, meanwhile, had strategically formed an alliance
                    between the large Thirteenth District and other northern Indiana districts.5 Additionally,
                    they struck a pre-vote deal with White's backers, agreeing that whichever
                    man received the lowest number of votes would withdraw and swing his support to
                    the other candidate in order to defeat Ryman. Ryman carried the first ballot at
                    the convention by a plurality of 602 votes, but lacked the majority of votes
                    needed to win. With Gilliom receiving only 478 votes to White's 270, White
                    withdrew and threw his support to Gilliom. In the next ballot, Gilliom defeated
                    Ryman by a narrow margin of 689 to 661 votes. No one was more astounded by the
                    upset than the candidate himself, whose previous activities (in 1922, he had
                    tried to prevent the Klan from obtaining a permit to march in
                            South Bend; he had also opposed the
                    Klan's attempt to oust a South Bend
                    school official) marked him as a clear enemy of the powerful organization.6
                
                    
                        4Maurice Early, "G.O.P Candidates Lining Up
                        Forces," Indianapolis Star, May 18, 1924, pp. 1, 3;
                        Harry L. Marum, Secretary of the LaPorte County
                        Republican Central Committee, to Gilliom, May 28, 1924, Arthur L. Gilliom
                        Papers, in possession of author; Bonita Witt, "High Indiana Law Officer
                        is Opposed to Fanaticism," St. Petersburg Times,
                        August 30, 1927, p. 2; "Watson Slate Wins," Tipton
                            Daily Tribune, May 23, 1924, p. 8. 
                    
                        5Nominations for state office such as attorney general
                        were made at the conventions, with the exception of governor. Gilliom's
                        supporters included South Bend Mayor Eli F
                        Seebirt, T. W. Slick, Rome C. Stephenson, Harry Marum, and others.
                        "Gilliom Wins Nomination," South Bend Tribune,
                        May 23, 1924; "G.O.P Candidates Lining Up Forces," Indianapolis Star, May 18, 1924; "Watson Slate Wins,"
                            Tipton Daily Tribune, May 23, 1924. 
                    
                        6"Gilliom Wins Nomination," South
                            Bend Tribune, May 23, 1924; "Arthur Gilliom on Republican
                        State Ticket," South Bend News-Times, May 23, 1924,
                        pp. 1-2; "Convention Lineup is Twice Broken: Gilliom Defeats Ryman for
                        Attorney General; Willoughby Beats Dillon," Indianapolis
                            Star, May 23, 1924, p. 1; "Watson Indiana Slate Broken in Two
                        Places," Indianapolis Star, May 23, 1924, p. 9;
                        Maurice Early, "G.O.P. Ranks Split on 'Big Seven,' Indianapolis Star, May 21, 1924, pp. 1, 3. 
                
                
                As Gilliom stepped toward the 1924 general election, Hoosiers (and Americans in
                    general) were grappling with the issue of Prohibition. The Anti-Saloon League
                    (ASL), founded in 1893 in Ohio with the single mission of
                    destroying the saloon and other liquor interests, had quickly grown from a
                    popular grassroots movement into an increasingly politically powerful nationwide
                        organization.7 According to ASL founder Rev. Howard H.
                    Russell, the league used "focus and intimidation" in the
                    administration of "political retribution" to the foes of Prohibition.
                    By recruiting Protestant ministers to support the group's efforts and
                    spread the message, the ASL gained an "unrivaled opportunity" to win
                    over multitudes of church attendees and to influence how they voted in
                        elections.8 In 1907, the ASL employed Edward S.
                    Shumaker, DePauw University graduate, ordained Methodist minister, and dedicated
                    prohibitionist, as the superintendent of the IASL.9 Over
                    time, Shumaker reorganized and galvanized the IASL into what would eventually be
                    described as "the most powerful organization in the state," and an
                    instrumental agent in the passage of statewide Prohibition in early 1917.10
                Shumaker and the IASL had thus been an influential and organized force in
                            Indiana for years when the Ku Klux Klan appeared
                    on the scene in the early 1920s. Writing in 1927, journalist R. L. Duffus
                    suggested that it may have been Shumaker and the IASL who had unwittingly paved
                    the way for Grand Dragon Stephenson and the Klan to gain mainstream acceptance
                    and influence within the state. For years, Duffus wrote, they had been
                    "drilling their followers to take orders and to apply the single test of
                    wetness or dryness to candidates for public office. A large group of voters
                    became accustomed to act en masse and to disregard incidental questions of right
                    and wrong."11 When the Klan arrived in the Hoosier
                    state, it required little effort to duplicate the "League's ideals,
                    mission and political tactics" and to portray itself "as the protector
                        
                        
                            7K. Austin Kerr, Organized for
                                Prohibition: A New History of the Anti-Saloon League
                                    (New Haven,
                                    Conn., 1985), 35, 80;
                            Jason S. Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to Stay":
                                The Reverend Edward S. Shumaker and the Dry Crusade in America
                                    (Notre Dame,
                                    Ind., 2009), 38, 72.
                        
                            8Daniel Okrent, Last Call: The Rise and
                                Fall of Prohibition (New
                                York, 2010), 36-37; Thomas R. Pegram, Battling Demon Rum: The Struggle for a Dry America,
                                1800-1933 (Chicago, 1998), 123. 
                        
                            9Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to
                                Stay," 49; Madison, Indiana through Tradition
                                and Change, 41. 
                        
                            10Irving Leibowitz, My Indiana
                                    (Englewood
                            Cliffs, N.J.,
                            1964), 182; Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to
                            Stay," 127. " 
                        
                            11Behind the Strange Spectacle," New York Times, October 2, 1927.
                    
                    
                    
                        The Rev. Edward S. Shumaker. Shumaker, seen here early in
                            his career at his Indiana Anti-Saloon League office in
                                    Indianapolis, would
                            go on to become a nemesis of Indiana
                            Attorney General Arthur Gilliom. Courtesy DePauw University
                            Archives, Greencastle,
                                    Indiana
                     of American morality" as a way of gaining widespread trust and
                    influence with voters and ministers alike.12That the Klan
                    was able to adopt and utilize Prohibition rhetoric to the extent it did also
                    indicates the strength of existing dry sentiment among the general public at the
                    time.
                The Klan's message of morality and its strong anti-alcohol stance proved
                    extremely attractive to the Anti-Saloon League and the league, at
                        
                            12Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to
                                Stay," 119.
                    
                     least initially, viewed the organization as
                    its ally in the crusade for Prohibition.13 While little
                    evidence suggests a formal alliance between the Klan and the ASL, public
                    perception of the time (since confirmed by various historians) was that the two
                    groups often worked closely together.14 Like the ASL, the
                    Klan actively recruited Protestant ministers to spread its message and increase
                    its membership within their congregations, and made Klan affiliation financially
                    attractive to them as well. As a result, hundreds of Protestant clergymen were
                    intimately involved in Klan affairs.15 While there is no
                    evidence that Shumaker was a member of the hooded order, he was one of a number
                    of ASL officials across the country closely associated with the organization,
                    joining with them in support of political candidates and passage of
                        legislation.16
                Klan operations included not only financial support and endorsement of political
                    candidates, but also actual law enforcement, perhaps most notably in the form of
                    the Horse Thief Detective Association (HTDA), which offered Klan members a legal
                    cover for assuming police powers and carrying concealed weapons. In addition to
                    enforcing Prohibition laws, the HTDA (which consisted of an estimated
                    15,000-20,000 vigilante constables across the state) also raided gambling
                    joints, seized control of roads and re-routed traffic for Klan meetings, and
                    harassed couples in parked cars. The IASL, as historian Jason Lantzer has
                    written, "approved of the Klan's HTDA liquor raids," which were
                    not occasional events and often occurred without probable cause or 
                        
                            13Moore, Citizen Klansmen, 26-27, 79; Lantzer,
                                "Prohibition is Here to Stay," 113. 
                        
                            14That the Klan and the ASL often shared political
                            interests and sometimes formed informal alliances, but remained separate
                            organizations, is expressed by Pegram. Pegram, "Hoodwinked,"
                            117; Pegram, Battling Demon Rum, 171; Moore, Citizen Klansmen, 27, 34; Kathleen M. Blee, Women of the Klan: Racism and Gender in the 1920s
                                    (Berkeley,
                                    Calif., 1991), 104.
                        
                            15Deposition of Hugh F Emmons, Indiana
                                vs. Knights of Ku Klux Klan, p. 196, Marion
                                    County Circuit Court, No. 41796, February
                            20, 1928, microfilm transcript, Indiana State Archives, Commission on
                            Public Records, Indianapolis,
                                    Indiana; Richard K. Tucker, The Dragon and the Cross: The Rise and Fall of the Ku Klux Klan in
                                Middle America (Hamden,
                                    Conn., 1991), 72; Moore,
                                Citizen Klansmen, 16.
                        
                            16While the Klan backed only dry candidates, not all
                            dry candidates were associated with the Klan. B. V. Hubbard, Making America Safe for Democracy: The Referendum, an
                                Instrument of Government (Chicago, 1926), 170; Moore, Citizen Klansmen, 34; Pegram, Battling Demon
                                Rum, 171; Madison, Indiana
                                through Tradition and Change, 42-43; Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to Stay," 125-26.
                    
                     search warrants.17 Many
                    HTDA arrests did not hold up in court, since Indiana courts
                    often found that the procedures used to obtain search and arrest warrants in
                    Prohibition cases were unconstitutional. Justice Benjamin M. Willoughby's
                    opinion in the 1923 Crabbs case-a decision that Lantzer writes
                    Shumaker "loathed"-reversed a conviction for possession of
                    intoxicating liquor based on such a defect.18 Klan-endorsed
                    Republican candidates swept the 1924 general election. Gilliom, riding
                    Republican coattails in spite of heavy Klan opposition, defeated his Democratic
                    opponent Harvey Harman.
                Gilliom's responsibilities in the new position were many. As one newspaper
                    noted prior to the 1924 elections, the attorney general's duty to defend
                    the Constitution (and the power of the courts to uphold it) and to protect the
                    rights of citizens made his position second only to the governor's in its
                    importance to the state.19 Gilliom was responsible for
                    prosecuting or defending all suits brought by or against the state and giving
                    his legal opinion to the governor or other state officers whenever requested to
                    do so. Additionally, he served as legal counsel for the Public Service
                    Commission; acted on behalf of the state of Indiana on
                    resolutions adopted by the state Highway Commission; and assisted the Securities
                    Commission, the Conservation Department, and the Industrial Board-among other
                    state agencies. He also had a myriad of other duties and responsibilities
                    involving the interests of the state.20
                Like all politicians, Gilliom possessed the strong ambition and desire necessary
                    to be elected to and hold public office. Speculation that his words and actions
                    were, at least in part, motivated by political ambition is not unreasonable,
                    especially considering his subsequent potential candidacy for governor and
                    actual run for the U.S. Senate in 1928. Gilliom's motivations, like those
                    of other politicians, were undoubtedly multifaceted. As attorney general,
                    Gilliom did follow consistent principles. 
                        
                            17In May 1925, Gilliom expressed his unofficial
                            opinion that HTDA members could only exercise their powers in the actual
                            pursuit of horse thieves. "Horse Thief Detectives," Tipton Daily Tribune, May 13, 1925, p. 2; "Gun
                            Toting," Rushville Daily Republican, May 13,
                            1925, p. 4; Pegram, "Hoodwinked," 115; William E. Wilson,
                            "Long Hot Summer," American Heritage
                                Magazine 16 (August 1965), n.p.; Kenneth T. Jackson, The Ku Klux Klan in the City 1915-1930
                                    (New York, 1967), 145-46;
                            Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to Stay," 125. 
                        18Harold C. Feightner, "Indiana Drys Fight
                            Court Nominations," New York Times, March 2,
                            1930, pp. 1, 7; Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to
                                Stay," 137; Tucker, The Dragon and the
                                Cross, 112; Crabbs v. State of Indiana, 139
                            N.E. 180 (Ind. 1923).
                        19Editorial, Indiana Catholic and
                                Record, October 31, 1924, p. 4.
                        20Genevieve Brown, A.N. Bobbitt, and J. Otto Lee,
                                Indiana (Fort
                                Wayne, Ind.,
                            1930), 66-67.
                    
                     He stressed the dangers of citizens
                    relinquishing their constitutional rights and personal freedoms, and emphasized
                    the importance of representative government (at all levels), states'
                    rights, and the concept of separation of church and state. His years in office
                    brought him into direct conflict with the Ku Klux Klan, the IASL, and the Rev.
                    Shumaker, as well as, on occasion, members of his own political party.21 While acknowledging that special-interest minority groups
                    and their leaders were in many cases sincere in their convictions, he often
                    objected to the methods they used to attain their goals. Even as men like
                    Shumaker argued that "personal liberty had to be sacrificed in order to
                    save people," Gilliom implored citizens not to surrender political power
                    and individual freedoms to such groups and their leaders. Doing so, he warned,
                    placed them on a slippery slope to centralized government and possibly
                        tyranny.22
                Gilliom's troubles with Shumaker commenced early in his term. Indiana
                    Supreme Court Justice Benjamin M. Willoughby, an anti-Klan candidate, had
                    defended his seat against Democrat George K. Denton in the 1924 election.
                    Shumaker, angered by Willoughby's earlier opinion establishing specific
                    requirements for search warrants in alcohol cases, was determined to see him
                    defeated at the polls, and backed Denton. While the initial tally showed that
                    Willoughby had won, a recount showed that Denton had won by several hundred
                    votes. Then-Secretary of State Ed Jackson refused to certify the second result
                    and the seat went to Willoughby. Denton's plan to contest the election
                    results failed when Gilliom gave his legal opinion that the state legislature
                    lacked the constitutional authority to overturn Jackson's decision. Denton
                    then took his complaint to court, where the judge dismissed the suit.23 Shumaker 
                        21For example, Gilliom strongly, but
                            unsuccessfully, fought the Indiana
                            legislature's vote to increase their own pay in the middle of the
                            session and issued an unpopular opinion in the case of Judge Clarence W.
                            Dearth, concluding that the legislature did not have the authority to
                            impeach a judge, even though he had acted illegally, unless he had
                            actually been convicted of corruption or a "high crime."
                            "Will Get Pay," Tipton Daily Tribune, August
                            6, 1927, p. 4; "Senate to Vote on Course to be Pursued," Lake County Times, March 21, 1927, pp. 11, 18; "2
                            Votes Saved Judge Dearth," Muncie Post-Democrat,
                            March 31, 1927, pp. 1, 3.
                        22Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here
                                to Stay," 73; "Gilliom Speaks Here on Favorite Theme:
                            Att'y General in Address to Kokomo Rotary," Kokomo Daily Tribune, October 11, 1927, pp. 1-2;
                            "Enthusiastic Knox County Republicans," Vincennes
                                Commercial, October 15, 1924, pp. 1, 8.
                        23Jackson had been elected governor in the 1924
                            election, but was still serving as secretary of state at the time he
                            issued the election certification opinion. Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to Stay," 137; "Assembly has no
                            Power in Election Contest," Logansport
                                Pharos-Tribune, February 18, 1925, p. 12.
                    
                    
                    
                        A still at 15th and Hawthorne Streets in
                                    Terre Haute,
                                    Indiana, June 1933. Until Prohibition
                            officially ended in December 1933, Indiana was
                            renowned nationwide for having one of the country's strictest
                            anti-liquor laws-the Wright Bone Dry Law. Courtesy Martin's
                            Photo Shop Collection, Indiana Historical Society,
                                    Indianapolis,
                                    Indiana
                     was angered at the election results, at Gilliom's decision, and
                    at the Indiana Supreme Court, which he believed had been lax in upholding
                    Prohibition laws. Shortly after the election, he and the IASL drafted the Wright
                    Bone Dry Law, named for its sponsor, Rep. Frank Wright (purportedly the Klan
                    leader in the House of Representatives), and written for the purpose of
                    strengthening Prohibition laws and enforcement in Indiana.24 The bill, one of the
                    few successful instances of Klan-backed legislation in Indiana, was overwhelmingly passed in spite of its
                    questionable constitutionality.25 The law, one of the
                    strictest in the country, 
                        24Leibowitz asserts that the Klan and the ASL
                            "teamed up" to pass the bone-dry law. Leibowitz, My Indiana, 209. Both Harold Feightner and D. C. Stephenson
                            alleged that Wright was "the Klan leader." Harold Feightner,
                            "Indiana's Sinister Man of Mystery," pp. 44-45, Harold C.
                            Feightner Papers, L55, Ku Klux Klan Papers 1921-1932, box 4, folder 1,
                            Rare Books and Manuscripts Division, Indiana State Library; Deposition
                            of David C. Stephenson, Indiana vs. The Knights of the Ku
                                Klux Klan, pp. 301-315, Marion County Circuit Court, No. 41796,
                            October 15, 1928, Indiana State Archives, Commission on Public
                            Records.
                        25Feightner explained: "Shumaker ... wanted
                            to father a model dry law ... Stephenson ... wanted to wrest control of
                            [the Klan] from . . . Hiram Wesley Evans. Shumaker needed the votes
                            controlled by Stephenson and Stephenson needed the churchly forces
                            commanded by Shumaker." Transcript of Oral History Interview of
                            Harold Feightner, 1968, p. 34, Rare Books and Manuscripts Division,
                            Indiana State Library; Hubbard, Making America Safe for
                                Democracy, 172; Madison, Indiana through Tradition
                                and Change, 42; "Attempts to Kill or Modify House
                            'Dry' Code Fail," Indianapolis Star,
                            February 14, 1925, pp. 1-2; "Dry Conference Kills Exemptions,"
                                Indianapolis Star, February 24, 1925, pp. 1,
                            11.
                    
                     was even more stringent than the Eighteenth
                    Amendment. Among its provisions, it outlawed medicinal liquor, considered the
                    smell of alcohol in an empty bottle prima facie evidence of possession, and
                    treated possession of as little as a quart of alcohol prima facie evidence of
                    possession with intent to sell. The mere possession of alcohol carried severe
                    penalties, including fines of up to $500 and thirty days in jail. In addition,
                    prosecutors received a special fee of $25 for each conviction compared to $5 per
                    day for prosecuting murder cases. This bonus provision, "written in
                    greed," as one critic contended, was included by the IASL under the theory
                    that their own attorneys would be able to serve as deputies to the attorney
                    general and thereby collect fees for hearing pleas of those arrested. However,
                    when Shumaker demanded that IASL attorneys be permitted to appear anywhere in
                    the state as prosecutors, Gilliom refused.26 Gilliom
                    responded to passage of the Wright Law with a letter sent to all of the
                    state's prosecuting attorneys encouraging them to "vigorously"
                    prosecute violations of the new law. He underscored that it was not the duty of
                    law enforcement to question the wisdom of the legislature in passing the bill,
                    only to enforce it. At the same time he emphasized the importance of equal
                    enforcement of all statutes, stressing that the attorney general's ability
                    to uphold alcohol convictions on appeal depended upon original prosecutions that
                    respected the constitutional rights of the accused.27
                Not surprisingly, passage of the new law flooded the courts with alcohol cases at
                    both the circuit and appellate levels; however, since the Klan-backed HTDA had
                    often violated other laws in making the arrests, 
                        26Letter from Gilliom to Prosecuting Attorneys,
                            Office of Attorney General Correspondence File, Location 27-D-5, box 13,
                            Appropriation Oral #23, March 28, 1925, Indiana State Archives,
                            Commission on Public Records; Okrent, Last Call, 255;
                            Leibowitz, My Indiana, 183, 209; "The Week in
                            Politics," Tipton Daily Tribune, May 18, 1925, p.
                            4; "Prohibition in Indiana," Pittsburgh
                                Press, July 30, 1932, p. 8; "Gilliom Tells Officials to
                            Beware of 'Reformers'; They're
                            'Trouble-Makers,' Valparaiso
                                Vidette-Messenger, September 26, 1927, pp. 1-2.
                        27Letter from Gilliom to Prosecuting Attorneys,
                            Office of Attorney General Correspondence File, Location 27-D-5, box 13,
                            Appropriation Oral #23, March 28, 1925, Indiana State Archives,
                            Commission on Public Records; "The Week in Politics," Tipton Daily Tribune, April 20, 1925, pp. 1, 4;
                            Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to Stay,"
                            138.
                    
                     many cases were dismissed.28 The state supreme court, for its part, consistently overturned
                    cases involving an illegal entry or search and seizure on mere suspicion without
                    probable cause when it found that constitutional rights had been violated.29 By the end of 1925, Gilliom stated that the courts and
                    police were being overloaded due to "the ever-increasing tendency" to
                    regulate the private lives and behavior of citizens by creating "moral
                    standards and arbitrary conceptions of conduct, and by attempting to compel
                    obedience" through law enforcement. Gilliom warned that such actions could
                    ultimately lead both to lower protection against real crime and "a
                    terrifying enforcement of tyrannous laws which invade the sphere of private
                        conduct."30
                In early 1926, irritated by what he saw as lax enforcement of Prohibition laws,
                    Shumaker published his annual report for the IASL (later printed in the ASL
                    publication The American Issue: Indiana Edition, of which he
                    was editor, and circulated throughout the state in pamphlet form as well),
                    questioning the competency and efficiency of the Indiana Supreme Court, accusing
                    it of "the splitting of judicial hairs," and stating that "a
                    majority of the supreme court is at least liberal in its sentiment."31 Shumaker singled out Willoughby, asserting that he was
                    "bitterly hostile to prohibition [sic]" and
                    declaring "we trust the next election will give us a supreme court that
                    will be dry and not wet."32 Shumaker should have
                    realized from previous experience that his words could invite legal trouble. In
                    January 1925, he had been sued for criminal libel by Fernando W. Wesner, a
                    defeated Democratic candidate for prosecuting attorney in Jackson and Lawrence
                    Counties, whom he had labeled as a "wet" candidate in The
                        American Issue.33 A few months earlier-just prior
                    to the 1924 elections-Shumaker had singled out another 
                        28Nationwide, courts were overburdened with
                            Prohibition cases. Pegram, Battling Demon Rum, 160;
                            "Court Machinery Clogged with Too Much Litigation," Linton Daily Citizen, February 15, 1926, p. 1.
                        29Roscoe B. Fleming, "A Great State's
                            Disgrace," Pittsburgh Press, October 17, 1927, p.
                            9.
                        30"Too Many Laws," Hamilton
                                (Ohio) Daily News, November 21, 1925, p. 6.
                        31"Gilliom Answers Shumaker Attack," Rushville Daily Republican, March 2, 1926, pp. 1, 6;
                            Philip Kinsley, "Free Speech to be Indiana Dry Chiefs'
                            Defense," Chicago Daily Tribune, June 8, 1926, p.
                            6; "The 'Dry' Leader Sentenced Today," Nevada Daily Mail, August 6, 1927, p. 1.
                        32"Shumaker Faces Court Today on Serious
                            Charge," Crawfordsville Review, May 11, 1926, p.
                            1; "The 'Dry' Leader," Nevada Daily
                                Mail, August 6, 1927.
                        33"Anti Saloon Editor is Sued for
                            Libel," Zanesville Times Signal, January 11,
                            1925, p. 8; "Liquor Foe Made Libel Defendant," Indianapolis Star, January 11, 1925, pp. 1, 8.
                    
                     public official, Knox County Circuit Court
                    Judge Thomas B. Coulter, accusing the judge of "not enforc[ing] the law
                    faithfully." Both friends and opponents of Coulter protested that he had in
                    fact made a "conscientious and painstaking" effort to decide cases
                    fairly and impartially.34
                    Vincennes Commercial editor Thomas Adams echoed their defense
                    and opined that Shumaker should file expense accounts with the secretary of
                    state, in light of the large amounts of money he was collecting and spending for
                    political purposes, potentially in violation of the Corrupt Practices Act.35
                For his part, Gilliom was enraged by Shumaker's newest attacks; he declared
                    that they referred not only to cases that had already been decided, but also,
                    indirectly, to many similar cases still pending in court. By using his
                    credibility and influence as a church pastor, Gilliom contended, Shumaker had
                    formed "a powerful political organization" for the purpose of
                    undermining the election of public officials, including judges, who did not rule
                    to his satisfaction on the numerous alcohol cases before the courts.36 In a letter to each of the IASI's trustees, Gilliom
                    defended the actions of his office, declaring that "inefficiency on the
                    part of the attorney general's office seems to have started when Ethan
                    Miles, attorney for the League, was denied the right to take part in a case
                    appealed to the supreme court . . . Because this court would not follow
                    intolerant bigotry and cast aside the law and the constitution in the
                    administration of justice, representatives of your organization have sought
                    falsely to bring the court into contempt."37 In
                    addition to threatening to charge Shumaker with contempt of court, Gilliom also
                    threatened to investigate the IASL under the Corrupt Practices Act-the same
                    proposal suggested by Adams more than a year earlier, before Gilliom 
                        34"Miles Preferred to Try Abatement Cases
                            before Judge Coulter," Vincennes Commercial,
                            October 23, 1924, pp. 1, 5.
                        35"Shumaker's Profits and the Corrupt
                            Practices Act," Vincennes Commercial, October 29,
                            1924, p. 1. As early as 1908, citizens charged that the ASL was a
                            money-making political organization and urged publication of its
                            finances. T. M. Gilmore, letter to the editor, "Wants the
                            Facts," New York Times, August 24, 1908, p.
                            6.
                        36"Anti-Saloon League Head Goes Too
                            Far," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, March 10, 1926,
                            pp. 1, 8.
                        37Gilliom to the Trustees of the Indiana
                            Anti-Saloon League, February 25, 1926, Arthur L. Gilliom Papers, in
                            possession of the author; "Gilliom Answers," Rushville Daily Republican, March 2, 1926.
                    
                     took office.38 As a
                    political organization collecting money for the support or defeat of candidates,
                    Gilliom cautioned, the IASL was required to file a report of its expenditures.
                    Gilliom had not singled the IASL out for compliance, he insisted; the
                    Association Against the Prohibition Amendment had received a similar warning and
                    had already sent notice of their intention to comply. Shumaker, in contrast,
                    replied that "the political activity of the league is only an incidental
                    part of its program," and made it clear that he had no intention of
                    following the law.39 When reports of Gilliom's stand
                    became public, many prominent attorneys, judges, and others offered Gilliom
                    their encouragement and assistance in pursuing Shumaker for his statements.40
                When the IASL's trustees refused to take responsibility for or retract the
                    statements, Gilliom charged Shumaker and two league attorneys, Jesse E. Martin
                    and Ethan A. Miles, with contempt of court.41 His petition
                    alleged that Shumaker's statements were "false and contemptuous"
                    and claimed that Shumaker "has sought to establish and has in a measure
                    established a politico-ecclesiastical hegemony over civil government and now is
                    seeking to extend the same over the Supreme Court of Indiana for the purpose of
                    controlling the decisions of the court . . . in accordance with his own
                    censorious and arbitrary views." Gilliom accused Shumaker of using churches
                    to construct "a powerful political organization" for the purpose of
                    intimidating and controlling the elections of public officials (including
                    Indiana Supreme Court justices) and of making candidates for public office aware
                    that IASL endorsement depended on their adherence to his demands. The league
                    responded that "it is the essential purpose of this league to inform the
                    people . . . at a time when the foes of prohibition are desperate for the
                    overthrow of the 
                        38Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here
                                to Stay," 139; "Shumaker's Profits," Vincennes Commercial, October 29, 1924; "Gilliom
                            Asks Stand," Kokomo Daily Tribune, March 9, 1926,
                            p. 6.
                        39"Shumaker Holds Act does not Apply to
                            Anti-Saloon League Expenditures: Dry Leader Replies to Warning on Cash
                            Report," Lake County Times, October 6, 1926, p.
                            1; "Anti-Saloon League Board Given Warning," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, October 5, 1926, p. 5;
                            "Indiana Dry League Refuses to Reveal its Expense Figures,"
                                Chicago Daily Tribune, October 7, 1926, p.
                            2.
                        40John G. Yeagley to Gilliom, March 4, 1926; Frank
                            Hamilton to Gilliom, March 6, 1926; Lee Whitehall to Gilliom, March 11,
                            1926; Edward H. Knight to Gilliom, March 12, 1926; C. R. Cameron to
                            Gilliom, March 19, 1926, all from Arthur L. Gilliom Papers, in
                            possession of the author; "Shumaker Report Stirs Gilliom," Tipton Daily Tribune, March 9, 1926, p. 5.
                        41"Gilliom Would Cite Shumaker for
                            Contempt," Kokomo Daily Tribune, March 10, 1926,
                            p. 1; State of Indiana v. Shumaker et al., 157 N.E.
                            769 (Ind. 1927).
                    
                     present laws."42
                    While the IASL publicly supported Shumaker, its trustees privately demanded that
                    Shumaker's report be "toned down," and that he delete the harsh
                    criticisms of the court prior to publication-advice that went unheeded.43
                Shumaker claimed the constitutional rights of freedom of speech and press for his
                    defense; Gilliom intended to prove that he had used his position and access to
                    church pulpits to make "false and malicious" statements about the
                    supreme court justices. While First Amendment rights are guaranteed under the
                    Constitution, the court would have to decide whether those rights were absolute
                    or if people could be held responsible for the abuse of those rights in cases
                    involving libel and slander.44 Without suggesting what
                    action the court should take, the attorney general proposed that a special
                    committee of members of the state bar association be formed to apprise the court
                    of their professional views concerning the information contained in the petition
                    and to decide, based on that information, whether the contempt case should
                    proceed. The special committee, consisting of three Democrats and three
                    Republicans, delivered its non-binding opinion in July 1926. Five of the six
                    members recommended that Shumaker, as the report's lone author, be held in
                    contempt, while the two league attorneys were exonerated.45
                    Following the special committee's decision, Shumaker secretly asked
                    Senators James Watson and Arthur Robinson, both of whom were up for re-election,
                    for their help in influencing the court's decision in the contempt case.
                    However, the details of these contacts would only become publicly known when the
                    story broke more than a year later.46
                The Shumaker case bore striking similarities to that of George R. Dale, the
                    anti-Klan editor of the Muncie Post-Democrat who in 1923 had
                        
                        42"Charge Dry Heads with Contempt," Indianapolis Times, March 10, 1926, pp. 1-2;
                            "Shumaker Faces Court," Crawfordsville
                                Review, May 11, 1926; "Gilliom Would Cite Shumaker,"
                                Kokomo Daily Tribune, March 10, 1926.
                        43"Anti-Saloon Trustees Not Behind
                            Shumaker," Linton Daily Citizen, March 22, 1926,
                            p. 1.
                        44"Free Speech," Chicago
                                Daily Tribune, June 8, 1926.
                        45"Indiana Supreme Court has Shumaker
                            Case," Linton Daily Citizen, December 9, 1926, p.
                            7.
                        46"Robinson to Sue Editor: Letters Link James
                            Watson and Shumaker," Logansport Pharos-Tribune,
                            September 17, 1927, pp. 1, 8; "Watson Gives his Side of Court
                            'Fixing' Case, Disputing Claim of Dr. Shumaker; Thinks G.O.P
                            Safe," Valparaiso Vidette-Messenger, September
                            20, 1927, p. 8.
                    
                     published articles accusing Delaware County
                    Circuit Court Judge Clarence W. Dearth of being a Klansman and of acts of
                    corruption. In response, Dearth cited Dale for contempt of court and found Dale
                    guilty of criminal libel, a decision which was sustained by the Indiana Supreme
                    Court on the grounds that "the truth of the article is not a matter of
                        defense."47 Outraged citizens submitted a petition
                    to the legislature calling for Dearth's impeachment on the grounds that he
                    had violated Dale's First Amendment rights.48 The
                    editor took his case to the U.S. Supreme Court, with Gilliom representing the
                    state of Indiana; however, the case was dismissed on a
                        technicality.49 Although his appeals in the court system
                    failed, Dale was pardoned from serving his ninety-day jail sentence by Governor
                        Jackson.50
                While awaiting further action in his case, Shumaker continued to speak harshly
                    and publicly against the court, this time targeting Supreme Court Justice Julius
                    C. Travis, who was facing re-election.51 Gilliom responded
                    with a letter-writing campaign (purportedly in his capacity as lawyer and
                    private citizen, not as a public official) in which he called the public's
                    attention to Shumaker's effort to use the state's churches for
                    political purposes. Although the letters appeared just prior to the 1926
                    elections (when Gilliom was on the stump for other Republicans), they urged the
                    public to consider candidates on both tickets, all of whom possessed
                    qualifications needed for election to the court. While Gilliom received
                    supportive replies, including some from Democrats, Shumaker denounced the
                    letters as a "political move" and 
                        47Dale v. State of Indiana, 150
                            N.E. 781 (Ind., 1926), at 786; Ron F
                            Smith, "The Klan's Retribution Against an Indiana Editor: A
                            Reconsideration," Indiana Magazine of History 106
                            (December 2010), 382-83; "Ask Gilliom Opinion in Dearth Case,"
                                Logansport Press, February 27, 1927, pp. 1, 6;
                            "House Unable to Agree on Impeachment," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, March 1, 1927, p. 1; "To
                            Recommend Removal from Muncie Bench," Kokomo Daily
                                Tribune, March 2, 1927, p. 1; "Gilliom Says Procedure is
                            Against Law," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, March 3, 1927, pp. 1,
                            15.
                        48"Senate to Vote," Lake
                                County Times, March 21, 1927; "Judge Dearth Impeached
                            Senate to Try the Case" and "An Amazing Situation," Muncie Post-Democrat, March 3, 1927, pp. 1-3.
                        49George R. Dale v. State of
                                Indiana, 273 U.S. 776 (1927); George R. Dale v.
                                State of Indiana, 274 U.S. 763 (1927).
                        50"Dale Wins Clemency from Governor of
                            Indiana," Border Cities (Windsor, Ontario) Star,
                            July 15, 1927, p. 1.
                        51"Renews Attack on Supreme Court," Rushville Daily Republican, September 16, 1926, p.
                            1.
                    
                     denied that he was "setting up a
                        super-government."52 According to press reports,
                    Shumaker also claimed that one of the justices had been drunk while writing an
                    opinion in a liquor case, and that another had been observed while intoxicated
                    in public. Gilliom, lamenting "that the church people of Indiana find it hard to believe that a minister is not
                    telling the truth," retorted that under the Wright Law, "everyone [is]
                    a policeman" and that the arm of law enforcement with regard to Prohibition
                    had become dangerously long and powerful, inviting police state activities at
                    the insistence of politically motivated clergy.53
                    Gilliom's warning was not unfounded. In 1925, the Indianapolis Public
                    Safety Commission passed a resolution granting "special police powers"
                    to more than one hundred members of the fire department.54
                    At one point, even bus drivers, train conductors, and ticket agents had been
                    authorized to arrest those breaking Prohibition laws.55
                    Ignoring the civil liberties argument, Shumaker declared that Gilliom had broken
                    his oath of office by taking a stand against Prohibition. Gilliom replied that,
                    while he was not aligned with the IASL, neither was he opposed to Prohibition
                        enforcement.56
                While both Gilliom and Travis were prepared to proceed with the contempt trial,
                    fellow Republicans Watson and Robinson (like Travis, 
                        52"Gilliom Calls on Bar to Meet Court Jabs of
                            Shumaker," Linton Daily Citizen, September 18,
                            1926, p. 1; William Daly to Gilliom, September 21, 1926; Leo M.
                            Rappaport to Gilliom, September 21, 1926; Charles P. Tighe to Gilliom,
                            September 24, 1926; James M. Barrett to Gilliom, September 25, 1926, all
                            from Arthur L. Gilliom Papers, in possession of author; "Brands
                            Gilliom Letter as a Political Move," Rushville Daily
                                Republican, September 18, 1926, p. 1.
                        53"Free Speech," Chicago
                                Daily Tribune, June 8, 1926; "Gilliom Assails Rochester
                            Remarks of E. S. Shumaker," Logansport
                                Pharos-Tribune, April 22, 1927, p. 6. Gilliom believed that
                            measures such as education were necessary for the long-term success of
                            Prohibition instead of a reliance on heavy-handed force by government
                            and police agencies. Even ASL officials differed in strategies, which
                            led to strife in the organization-while Shumaker and Wayne B. Wheeler
                            were extreme in their approaches, Ernest H. Cherrington took a more
                            "evenhanded, studious approach to temperance reform." Pegram,
                                Battling Demon Rum, 138, 150; "Attorney
                            General Gilliom Scores Way Prohibition Law is Enforced," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, January 6, 1927, p.
                            5.
                        54"Minutes of the Indianapolis Department of
                            Public Safety, February 24, 1925, A2788-A2789, 11-C-1, Indiana State
                            Archives, Commission on Public Records.
                        55Moore, Citizen Klansmen, 91;
                            Okrent, Last Call, 141.
                        56"Raps Gilliom for Criticism of Prohi
                            Law," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, January 6, 1927,
                            pp. 1, 13; "Gilliom Says Speech at Alexandria is Free from
                            Charges," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, January 10,
                            1927, p. 9.
                    
                     also up for re-election) feared
                    repercussions at the polls and preferred that the trial be postponed until after
                    the 1926 elections. For Gilliom, any action he took was likely to invite
                    criticism. By pushing for a speedy trial, he opened himself to charges that he
                    was out for revenge against Shumaker; delaying the trial risked appearing as a
                    politically motivated move to ensure Republican success at the polls.57 Any dilemma this may have posed for the Republicans was
                    resolved when the court went into recess without hearing the Shumaker case
                    before the 1926 elections; both Robinson and Watson were successful in retaining
                    their senate seats.58
                Gilliom's next tangle with temperance forces centered on the issue of
                    medicinal alcohol. Around the country, the use of medicinal alcohol (an
                    exception to the Volstead Act) offered a legal method-and often guise-for
                    obtaining liquor. With a physician's prescription, an individual could have
                    access to a pint of whiskey every ten days, making it not only popular with
                    thirsty citizens, but also a lucrative business for doctors and drugstores
                    alike. Although the American Medical Association (AMA) had declared in 1917 that
                    there was "no scientific value" with respect to alcohol as medicine,
                    physicians were still unrestricted in their ability to prescribe it as they saw
                    fit. Some doctors still believed that it was useful as a treatment; others
                    employed it as a last resort in cases of extreme illness. The Volstead Act
                    required physicians to obtain permits in order to issue such prescriptions and
                    regulated the amount of alcohol they could prescribe-restrictions that doctors
                    viewed as governmental encroachment into the practice of medicine. In early 1922
                    the AMA did an about-face and once again approved alcohol as a legitimate
                    treatment for patients with certain diseases. This stance not only protested
                    government regulation of the practice of medicine, but also legitimized the
                    highly profitable business of issuing alcohol prescriptions. Indiana's strict Wright Law aimed to close this
                    loophole and forbade the use of medicinal alcohol.59
                
                    57"Watson Writes Shumaker," South Bend Mirror, November 26, 1927, reprinted by Rev. William
                        Brandon, pamphlet, Edward S. Shumaker Papers, box 2616,
                        "Watson-Shumaker, Analysis of Correspondence" Folder, DePauw
                        University Archives, Greencastle,
                                Indiana.
                    58"Indiana Supreme Court has Shumaker Case,"
                            Linton Daily Citizen, December 9, 1926.
                    59The Rose Melnick Medical Museum,
                        http://rosemelnickmuseum.wordpress.com/2010/
                        04/07/medicinal-alcohol-and-prohibition/; Okrent, Last
                            Call, 193-97.
                
                
                
                    Arthur Gilliom, his wife Nancy, and their four sons (from left,
                        Luther, Arthur, Richard, and Elbert), 1925. Shortly after assuming the
                        office of attorney general, Gilliom broke Indiana's
                        liquor laws to obtain alcohol in order to treat his sons when they were
                        seriously ill with typhoid and pneumonia. Courtesy of the author
                
                In May 1927, in the midst of Shumaker's contempt case, Gilliom (himself a
                    lifelong total abstainer) suddenly announced his support of medicinal alcohol in
                    a sensational way. He publicly divulged that the previous year, when three of
                    his young sons had fallen ill with typhoid and pneumonia, their doctor had
                    suggested medicinal whiskey as a last 
                    resort. Following weeks of his sons' suffering, including (for at least one
                    boy) unconsciousness, dangerously fluctuating body temperatures, and receiving
                    nourishment through feeding tubes, and after exhausting measures such as
                    administering oxygen and even blood transfusions, the attorney general took the
                    physician's advice and broke the law by procuring the whiskey-his three
                    sons lived.60 Gilliom had again procured prescription
                    whiskey, he revealed, when Governor Jackson approached him for help when the
                    governor's wife had a severe case of pneumonia. Gilliom's confession
                    appeared in an open letter to Jackson, outlining the occasions on which they
                    both had obtained medicinal alcohol and urging amendment of the Wright Law to
                    allow such uses in the future.61 Public reaction to the
                    bombshell was deeply divided, resulting in a flood of discussion, letters, and
                    editorials, some abusive and some praising the attorney general's
                        actions.62 Some critics even called for the attorney
                    general's arrest; however, no charges were pressed, perhaps because of an
                    1851 ruling by the Indiana Supreme Court that the law was not violated in the
                    case of alcohol provided for strictly medicinal purposes.63
                Governor Jackson, for his part, tried to remain silent on the issue in order to
                    avoid criticism; when pressed, he finally acknowledged breaking the law, but
                    refused to endorse Gilliom's call for modification.64
                    Frank E. Wright, who had sponsored the bill, criticized Gilliom but admitted, in
                    response to a hypothetical question, that if his own wife's 
                        60James O'Donnell Bennett, "Gilliom
                            Charges Bigots' Tyranny Exceeds Kings," Chicago
                                Daily Tribune, June 10, 1927, p. 17; Allene Sumner,
                            "Sons' Lives are Saved by Liquor," Sheboygan
                                Press, May 25, 1927, pp. 1-2; "Gillioms Sons Ill,"
                                Indianapolis Times, March 9, 1926, p. 9;
                            "Champagne Sought in Kessler Illness," Indianapolis News, June 4, 1927, pp. 1-2.
                        61"Indiana Fight Rages over Bone Dry
                            Edict," Sarasota Herald, October 16, 1927, p. 7;
                            "High Indiana Law Officer," St. Petersburg
                                Times, August 30, 1927; "Tells Governor Medical Whisky
                                [sic] 'Saved Our Kin,' Chicago Daily Tribune, May 24, 1927, p. 3; "Governor
                            Urged to End Indiana Whiskey Ban," New York
                            Times, May 24, 1927, p. 12.
                        62C. S. Hull to Gilliom, May 27, 1927; George B.
                            Jones to Gilliom, May 27, 1927; S. Cummings to Gilliom, May 28, 1927;
                            Babette Muench to Gilliom, May 29, 1927, all from Arthur L. Gilliom
                            Papers, in possession of the author.
                        63"Champagne Sought," Indianapolis News, June 4, 1927; "Old Law Cited,"
                                Tipton Daily Tribune, June 6, 1927, p. 4;
                            "Used Liquor for Medicine; Must Serve His Term," Chicago Daily Tribune, June 5, 1927, p. 26.
                        64"Tells Governor Medical Whisky [sic]," Chicago Daily Tribune,
                            May 24, 1927; "Gilliom Replies to Dry Attack on Medical Rum,"
                                Chicago Daily Tribune, May 25, 1927, p. 15;
                            "Liquor is Scented in Political Winds of Indiana: Stand Taken by
                            Officials Nettles Drys," Logansport
                                Pharos-Tribune, May 26, 1927, p. 9; Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to Stay," 148.
                    
                    
                    
                        Governor Edward Jackson, c. 1926. Though he illegally
                            obtained alcohol to treat his ill wife, Jackson would not endorse
                            legislation to modify Indiana's strict
                            Prohibition laws. Courtesy of Portraits, Rare Books and Manuscripts
                            Division, Indiana State Library, Indianapolis, Indiana
                     life were in danger, and if he thought that medicinal whiskey would
                    help, he would try it. Ohio ASL Superintendent Rev. E. J. Moore agreed, as did
                    other Prohibition officials, such as Assistant Prohibition Commissioner of Ohio
                    and Michigan W. D. Jones, and Assistant Federal Prohibition Administrator of
                    Ohio Tom Williams-even as some ministers insisted that Gilliom and Jackson
                    should have let their family members die before resorting to alcohol.65 The Women's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU)
                    adopted a resolution criticizing Gilliom; in 
                        65"Let Family Die Rather than Break Law Says
                            Dry," Sheboygan Press, May 25, 1927, p. 1;
                            "Dry Law Violation to Save Life held Justifiable Here," Columbus (Ohio) Daily Citizen, May 26, 1927, pp. 1,
                            8.
                    
                     response, he asked members what they would
                    do if lives of children were in danger, publicly asking "Wouldn't
                    you?" The attorney general's pointed question would lead to intense
                    debate and controversy within the WCTU, and eventually contributed to a split in
                    the organization.66 Watching the controversy, Hoosier writer
                    Meredith Nicholson observed that many citizens, fearing the consequences,
                    hesitated to speak out as Gilliom had done. Nicholson found this reluctance to
                    voice an opinion "ignoble and menacing," and lamented that "we
                    are living in an atmosphere of suspicion and timidity. Our good, old, clean
                            Indiana-the Indiana of James
                    Whitcomb Riley-is gone, and I do not know when it will be restored to
                        us."67
                What motivated Gilliom's public confession? The ASL publication, The American Issue: Indiana Edition, immediately speculated
                    "that Gilliom's stand sprang from the attorney general's
                    aspirations for higher office" and reported that the AMA had come out
                    against medicinal alcohol-omitting the fact that the doctors' group had
                    recently amended its position and also suggested some changes in the Volstead
                        Act.68 Gilliom's wife, when interviewed by a
                    reporter, insisted that the shocking letter and public stand taken by her
                    husband had originated from her, a quiet "little home body" who had
                    never tasted alcohol in her life.69 As a politician,
                    Gilliom's motivations for his daring declaration were most likely
                    multi-layered. While genuinely wanting to see Prohibition succeed, he also
                    believed that an even-handed approach was crucial for long-term achievement.
                    Undoubtedly, his announcement generated plenty of press coverage, debate, and
                    name recognition.70 By revealing his own experience and
                    voicing a more tolerant stance, he may have been appealing to moderate drys and
                    hoping that his strategy would resonate with the voting 
                        66"Gilliom Charges," Chicago Daily Tribune, June 10, 1927; "WC.T.U. Splits
                            Over 'Medicinal' Whiskey," Linton Daily
                                Citizen, September 24, 1927, p. 1.
                        67James O'Donnell Bennett, "Many Approve
                            Gilliom's Fight to Change Law," Chicago Daily
                                Tribune, June 18, 1927, p. 10. Meredith Nicholson and his wife
                            worked actively for the repeal of Prohibition. Meredith Nicholson,
                            letter to the editor, undated, in The Prohibition Question
                                Viewed from the Economic and Moral Standpoint, Richard H.
                            Edmonds, ed. (Baltimore, 1922), 32;
                            "National Affairs: WO.N.PR.," Time, June 10,
                            1929.
                        68Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here
                                to Stay," 148; "Indiana Officer Stands by
                            Prescription Liquor," Sheboygan Press, May 25,
                            1927, p. 12.
                        69"Officials Breaking Law in Order to Save
                            Sons' Lives: Mother Pleads for Annulment," Port
                                Arthur (Tex.) News, June 2, 1927, p. 14.
                        70"Gilliom Charges Bigots'
                            Tyranny," Chicago Daily Tribune, June 10,
                            1927.
                    
                     public in the 1928 elections; however,
                    others were less sure of the success of this approach. Even Republicans who
                    wanted to see Gilliom elected governor had to acknowledge reluctantly that he
                    stood barely a chance in an election with the IASL, the Klan, and the HTDA
                    opposing him. In fact, some worried that he had offended radical drys to the
                    point of inciting a widespread backlash by the IASL against other Republicans,
                    and they wished Gilliom would subdue his comments.71
                Despite his initial assurances that the IASL would ignore Gilliom's letter,
                    Shumaker soon issued lengthy statements assailing the state's chief law
                    officer. He declared Gilliom's letter "a great grandstand play,"
                    chided Gilliom for giving out "sob stuff to the effect that he did it to
                    save life," and insisted that the attorney general resign for his blatant
                    violation of the law.72 Ironically, it soon became public
                    that Shumaker had not only tried medicinal whiskey himself as a student at
                    DePauw University, but had also administered it to his first wife, Lena, some
                    twenty-seven years earlier when she was suffering from heart disease. Eugene
                    ("Jep") Jepson Cadou exposed Shumaker's recent personal use of an
                    elixir, Busho tonic, which contained 23 percent alcohol, while other reports had
                    the temperance crusader administering whiskey to his son during a serious
                        illness.73 "If the prohibition cause in
                            Indiana will ever suffer, as it may," Gilliom
                    responded, "it will be because of the dishonesty, unreasonableness and
                    hypocrisy of those who are loudest in condemning someone who wishes to be
                    sincere and honest in its support."74
                On June 30, 1927, the Indiana Supreme Court handed the IASL another setback in
                    the Wallace case, which established that search warrants must
                    be based on probable cause. James Wallace, arrested for and convicted of an
                    alcohol violation as the result of a search warrant based 
                        71"Indiana Politics During the Week,"
                                Tipton Daily Tribune, May 30, 1927, pp.
                            1-2.
                        72"Shumaker Answers Gilliom," Kokomo Daily Tribune, July 25, 1927, p. 4;
                            "Exponent of Prohibition," Tipton Daily
                                Tribune, August 8, 1927, p. 4; "Shumaker Raps Atty.
                            General," Tipton Daily Tribune, May 30, 1927, p.
                            1; "Indiana Politics During the Week," Tipton
                                Daily Tribune, June 6, 1927, pp. 1-2; "Right About
                            Face," Ames (Iowa) Daily Tribune and Evening
                                Times, September 12, 1929, p. 4.
                        73Leibowitz, My Indiana, 182-83;
                            Transcript of Oral History Interview of Harold Feightner, 1968, pp. 56,
                            95-96; "Has Tasted Whiskey," Kokomo Daily
                                Tribune, June 3, 1927, p. 2.
                        74Arthur Gilliom to E. H. Draper, June 9, 1927,
                            Office of Attorney General Correspondence File, 27-D-5, box 12,
                            Correspondence "D" Folder, Indiana State Archives, Commission
                            on Public Records. 311
                    
                     solely on an officer's information and
                    belief-without supporting testimony or evidence-had appealed his case to the
                    Indiana Supreme Court. The higher court overturned the conviction, ruling that a
                    search warrant could not be legally issued based on the subjective reasoning,
                    knowledge, or discretion of the person requesting it. Justice Travis's
                    opinion stated that all individuals were protected under the Constitution
                    "without discrimination" and that in the absence of probable cause,
                    the search warrant was illegal. Gilliom, who had unsuccessfully argued for the
                    state, acknowledged the court's sovereignty at a law enforcement conference
                    later that fall: "I am not the supreme court of Indiana. Neither are you. Nor is anyone else, except
                    those judges elected by the people of the state to occupy that bench and
                    constitute that court."75
                On August 4, 1927, the Indiana Supreme Court finally ruled on the contempt
                    charges against Shumaker and the two IASL attorneys, returning a guilty verdict
                    against Shumaker and Martin while acquitting Miles. The court noted that it did
                    not "contend that judges are beyond fair and respectful criticism . . . but
                    a knowingly dishonest, false or libelous publication" was another matter.
                    Shumaker, contending that those violating Prohibition law were not entitled to
                    constitutional protection, had essentially threatened the court with retribution
                    at the polls if it did not yield to this line of thought in other cases pending
                    before it. The court, in its response, accused Shumaker of
                    "capitalizing" on his position as a member of the clergy for the
                    purposes of impressing the public with the "truthfulness and fairness of
                    his statements," of gaining "admission to the pulpits of various
                    churches of the state which he use[d] to arouse" the public to contribute
                    money to his cause, and of following up with intentionally false statements
                    designed to undermine the integrity of the court.76 Justice
                    Clarence R. Martin, who was not a member of the court when the action was first
                    filed by Gilliom in 1926, had preferred not to participate in the decision, but
                    was asked by his colleagues to sit in on the case because of his impartiality in
                    the matter. While his late exposure 
                        75"Wright Attacks Ruling of Court on Dry
                            Warrant," Chicago Daily Tribune, July 3, 1927, p.
                            7; Wallace v. State of Indiana, 157 N.E. 657
                                    (Ind.. 1927); Arthur Gilliom, Proceedings of a Conference of Prosecuting Attorneys and other Law
                                Enforcement Officials of the State of Indiana, September 24,
                                1927 (Indianapolis, Ind., 1927), 32-34, Indiana Pamphlet
                            Collection, Indiana State Library.
                        76State of Indiana v. Shumaker et
                                al., 157 N.E. 769 (Ind. 1927),
                            at 775-76.
                    
                     to the case provided him less than optimal
                    opportunity to prepare his dissenting opinion, he considered Shumaker's
                    remarks "calmly and deliberately, in the light of the constitutional
                    guaranty of free speech and writing." He found all of Gilliom's
                    contentions against Shumaker "unwarranted" and deduced that the only
                    way the court arrived at a guilty verdict was by adopting them, unchallenged, in
                    the first place. He commented that the case was "a most unusual
                    proceeding" in that Gilliom appeared to have begun the proceedings without
                    the prodding of the court itself (as would be expected if the court were seeking
                    to protect its honor in the case of contemptuous action). He further noted that
                    Gilliom's actions were also not instigated by any of the litigants involved
                    in any of the pending cases. Lastly, he pointed out that it was unfortunate that
                    "the judges whose decisions are criticized sit in judgment of the person
                    who made the criticism."77
                Shumaker was fined $250 and sentenced to sixty days at the state penal farm, a
                    decision he immediately appealed. Suddenly, the man who had pressured the courts
                    to remove the Fourth Amendment rights of others to advance his cause presented
                    himself as a defender of free speech, and even IASL attorney James Bingham had
                    to admit the irony of Shumaker seeking constitutional protection given his
                    stance that Prohibition violators were not equally entitled to the same.78 Bingham's subsequent motions, designed to help
                    Shumaker avoid serving his jail sentence, included an impassioned plea to the
                    court that "we are trying a minister of the Gospel." Gilliom countered
                    that Shumaker was not being prosecuted as a minister, but rather as someone who
                    had attempted to threaten the court and to influence its decisions.79
                Gilliom's motives for relentlessly pursuing the charges against Shumaker
                    were publicly questioned, as were those of the court in its verdict. Louis
                    Francis Budenz, writing for The Nation, accused the attorney
                    general of being "determined to grasp the scepter of the Republican Party
                    for himself," noting that Gilliom was "inclined to no halfway
                    measures," and declaring that the court's decision was in effect a
                    move 
                        77157 N.E. at 780, 788.
                        78Philip Kinsley, "Prohibition is Superlaw,
                            Made Indiana Defense," Chicago Daily Tribune,
                            June 9, 1926, p. 2; "The 'Dry' Leader," Nevada Daily Mail, August 6, 1927; Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to Stay," 146-47.
                        79"All Motions for Shumaker are
                            Overruled," Kokomo Daily Tribune, August 18,
                            1927, pp. 1-2.
                    
                     toward setting up a
                        "dictatorship."80 Though Justice Martin's
                    dissent had acknowledged the unusual circumstances of the attorney general
                    filing the contempt case without the court's own expected involvement,
                    Martin himself did not discuss the idea that, had the majority indeed been
                    intimidated by Shumaker, it would have been unlikely further to antagonize him
                    by requesting contempt proceedings on its own-especially prior to an
                        election.81
                Public opinion on the court's decision was divided, with the clergy,
                    newspapers, and law reviews all weighing in. The controversial decision inspired
                    a debate concerning free speech and contemptuous or libelous statements. Some
                    noted the danger of allowing the court, comprising elected officials, to hold
                    people in contempt for speaking out against its actions even if that criticism
                    was misleading or mistaken. Free and open debate of issues, they argued, would
                    undoubtedly lead to unsubstantiated or excessive statements, and elected
                    officials (including judges) should be prepared to regard such expression of
                    public opinion with tolerance. Others argued the constitutional right to free
                    speech was not absolute, and that those who abused it, as in the case of libel,
                    could be held responsible.82
                In September 1927, while he appealed his contempt case, Shumaker's secret
                    contact with Senators Watson and Robinson just prior to the 1926 election became
                    public. Shumaker had allegedly informed the senators that there would be
                    consequences for the Republican Party if he were to be convicted and jailed.
                    According to Shumaker, Watson had told him in a telephone conversation from the
                    home of Henry Lane Wilson (former ambassador to Mexico) that Watson
                    had approached the three justices who were unfavorable to Shumaker's case.
                    They had assured him that Shumaker would receive a fine but not jail time, and
                    that the case was being held up pending the elections. Shumaker then wrote a
                    letter to Watson outlining the details of the conversation in order to receive
                    written confirmation from the senator that his case had indeed been fixed.
                    Watson responded that Shumaker had misunderstood 
                        80Louis Francis Budenz, "Indiana's
                            Anti-Saloon League Goes to Jail," The Nation,
                            August 24, 1927, 177-78.
                        81"Exponent of Prohibition," Tipton Daily Tribune, August 8, 1927, p. 4.
                        82"WCTU Delegate Answers Gilliom at State
                            Session," Indianapolis Star, news clipping,
                            Arthur L. Gilliom Papers, in possession of the author; "A Great
                            State's Disgrace," Pittsburgh Press, October
                            17, 1927; M. E. Tracy, "Tracy Says," Pittsburgh
                                Press, August 6, 1927, p. 6; "Free Speech," Chicago Daily Tribune, June 8, 1926.
                    
                     the conversation, and that while he had
                    written letters to others in the state on Shumaker's behalf, he had not and
                    would not approach judges for leniency. His account was later verified by
                    Wilson, who had overheard the telephone conversation. Upon learning of the
                    situation, Robinson had allegedly encouraged Watson to work to keep Shumaker out
                    of jail.83 When this secret correspondence became public,
                    Shumaker was again summoned to court and was charged with trying to
                    "corruptly influence a decision favorable to him in this cause."
                    Gilliom filed a motion to have Shumaker's original sentence increased for
                    his attempts to barter political influence and corrupt a decision of the state
                    supreme court.84 Gilliom's brief alleged that Shumaker
                    had offered the senators votes, which just prior to the elections were of
                    considerably more value to them than money, for their intervention in his
                        case.85 Watson asserted that Shumaker had told him that
                    "the Anti-Saloon league [sic] and Methodist church will
                    hold you responsible if this thing is not done."86
                    Shumaker contradicted Watson's version, and denied having pressured Watson
                    to intervene in his case or having threatened political repercussions in the
                    event of a conviction. However, Robinson also said that he was "under the
                    impression" that the IASL would "hold the Republican Party at least
                    partially responsible" if there were a conviction, indicating that Shumaker
                    had at least made his point. Having heard this evidence and in spite of
                    Gilliom's best efforts to have Shumaker's sentence increased, the
                    court declined to do so.87
                
                
                    83"Senators Called in Indiana Dry Case," New York Times, September 18, 1927, pp. 1, 14;
                        "Wilson Recalls Talk of Watson with Shumaker," Indianapolis Star, September 19, 1927, pp. 1, 8; "Two Letters
                        Draw Watson and Robinson into Shumaker-Gilliom Contempt Action: Junior
                        Senator Entered a Plea for Dry Chief," Indianapolis
                            Star, September 17, 1927, pp. 1-2; "Dr. Shumaker's Letter
                        to Senator Watson" and "Senator Watson's Letter to Dr.
                        Shumaker," Indianapolis Star, September 17, 1927, p.
                        1.
                    84"Senators Called," New York
                            Times, September 18, 1927; "Indiana Uproar Grows in Move to
                        Jail Leaguer," Reading (Pa.) Eagle, September 18,
                        1927, p. 10; "Wants to Keep Him Locked Up," Traverse
                            City Record-Eagle, September 17, 1927, p. 21.
                    85State of Indiana v. Edward S. Shumaker;
                            Ethan A. Miles, Jesse E. Martin, No. 25147, May 1926, Brief by
                        State On Proceeding To Modify Judgment and Increase Penalty, Location
                        27-D-5, box 14, Folder: Edward S. Shumaker Trial for Contempt, Indiana State
                        Archives, Commission on Public Records.
                    86"Watson Tells of Shumacker [sic] Deal Threats," Valparaiso
                            Vidette-Messenger, November 18, 1927, pp. 1, 4.
                    87"Indiana Dry Leader Contradicts Watson,"
                            New York Times, November 22, 1927, p. 31; "Enters
                        Institution Again to Serve 60 Day Sentence," Logansport
                            Press, February 12, 1929, pp. 1, 6; Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to Stay," 149; Eugene J. Cadou, "Dr.
                        Shumaker's Jail Sentence to High Court," Coshocton
                            (Ohio) Tribune, January 16, 1929, p. 5.
                
                
                In October 1927, Gilliom once again confessed to obtaining medicinal alcohol-this
                    time for his hospitalized sister, Emma Gilliom, of Berne
                    (also a lifelong teetotaler and Adams County WCTU member).88
                    Shortly thereafter, with the recovered Emma in attendance, the Adams County WCTU
                    passed a resolution condemning Gilliom's actions and calling for an
                    investigation and appropriate legal action.89 Many other
                    drys from the area where Gilliom had grown up, including Fred Rhorer, editor of
                    the Berne Witness and an IASL trustee, also pressed for
                    Gilliom's indictment. Gilliom fired back by calling Rhorer a hypocrite for
                    secretly using wine (a fact eventually confirmed by Rohrer, who also admitted
                    the occasional use of whiskey). Gilliom expressed disdain for the "Biblical
                    hypocrisy . . . that is certain to defeat . . . prohibition unless it is
                        checked."90 Once again, Gilliom pointedly did not
                    resist prosecution or seek special protection from the law; in fact, he sent a
                    letter to the prosecuting attorney, providing the complete account of how he had
                    obtained the whiskey.91 While a grand jury did review the
                    case, it ultimately declined to indict Gilliom.92
                With an eye on the 1928 elections, Republicans, who lacked a unified party
                    strategy, fretted over the Klan issue, corruption scandals, and the expected
                    response of the IASL to Shumaker's prison sentence and Gilliom's
                    effort to increase it. The attorney general was unpopular with the Klan, the
                    IASL, and prominent members of his own party.93 Gilliom
                    began making a series of statewide speeches focused on 
                        88"Gilliom Buys Bootleg Whiskey for
                            Medicine," Pittsburgh Press, October 5, 1927, p.
                            22; "Gilliom Ready to Give Help to Grand Jury," Kokomo Daily Tribune, November 25, 1927, pp. 1-2.
                        89"Adams County W.C.T.U. Attacks A. L.
                            Gilliom," Warsaw Union, October 6, 1927, p.
                            4.
                        90"Hoosier Official May Face Liquor Charge in
                            State," Lawrence (Kan.) Daily Journal-World,
                            October 5, 1927, p. 1; Dan H. Kidney, "He's Dry, but Takes a
                            Little Wine for Stomach's Sake," Indianapolis
                                Times, October 11, 1927, p. 1; "State Aid Hits Dry
                            Fanaticism," Miami (Fla.) Daily News and
                                Metropolis, October 11, 1927, p. 4; "Denies Charge State
                            Liquor Law Violation," Kokomo Daily Tribune,
                            October 11, 1927, pp. 1, 2; "'Dry' Enthusiasts," Kokomo Daily Tribune, October 11, 1927, p. 16.
                        91"Gilliom Ready to Give Help," Kokomo Daily Tribune, November 25, 1927.
                        92"Grand Jury Fails to Indict Gilliom,"
                                Logansport Pharos-Tribune, February 7, 1928, p.
                            4.
                        93"G.O.P Leaders Will Face Two Sharp
                            Queries," Valparaiso Vidette-Messenger, August
                            11, 1927, p. 8; Maurice Early, "G.O.P Leaders Analyze Break in 13th
                            District," Indianapolis Star, October 23, 1927,
                            pp. 1, 4; "Behind the Strange Spectacle," New
                                York Times, October 2, 1927, pp. 1, 11.
                    
                     destroying what he termed
                    "super-government." The talks quickly led to speculation that he was
                    interested in the governorship.94 Publicly naming the Klan
                    and the ASL, and linking them together with the HTDA, Gilliom declared that
                    "these supergovernment groups have succeeded in . . . establishing their
                    power over the people of Indiana by making candidates of both political parties
                    . . . responsible to them either under oaths of super-allegiance, under corrupt
                    bargains or under the threat of massed group opposition at the polls."95 Gilliom warned that citizens who surrendered power and
                    the right of self-government were also surrendering individual freedom, which
                    could lead to oppression and tyranny.96 His actions fueled
                    not only speculation about his political plans but also puzzlement about his
                    approach. His political enemies proposed that he was motivated by selfish
                    ambition, while admirers saw him as a crusader for a cause. The reality was most
                    likely somewhere in the middle-he was sincere in his beliefs, but also
                    politically ambitious. While the content and frequency of his speeches indicated
                    that he intended to run for higher office, the fact that he was attacking large
                    groups of the electorate in the process left political analysts confused and
                    created doubt about his chances for political success.97
                    Seasoned politicians predicted that his entrance into the primary 
                        94Gilliom had charged Shumaker with attempting to
                            set up "a super-government" as early as 1926. See "Brands
                            Gilliom Letter as a Political Move," Rushville Daily
                                Republican, September 18, 1926. The term super-government was
                            being used nationwide as Americans were becoming concerned with
                            centralization and consolidation of power. For an example of its
                            application to the ASL, see "Anti-Saloon League's
                            Million," Reading Eagle, February 10, 1923, p. 7;
                            "Behind the Strange Spectacle," New York
                                Times, October 2, 1927; "Indiana Politics During the
                            Week," Tipton Daily Tribune, October 17, 1927,
                            pp. 1-2.
                        95Address of Arthur L. Gilliom before the Hamilton
                            Club of Terre Haute,
                            September 27, 1927, Arthur L. Gilliom Papers, in possession of the
                            author. Klan membership had plummeted and Gilliom noted that its power
                            in Indiana politics was "crumbling
                            fast"; however, supporters put forth a concentrated effort to
                            resuscitate the order. For example, in February 1928, Imperial Wizard
                            Hiram W. Evans ordered a reorganization of the Klan-including a change
                            in name to "The Knights of the Great Forest" in an effort to
                            reinvent the group and initiate a comeback. "Gilliom Takes Rap at
                            Petty Groups' Rule," Kokomo Daily Tribune,
                            September 8, 1927, p. 1; "Klan Doffs Mask and Changes Name,"
                                New York Times, February 23, 1928, pp. 1-2;
                            Richard V. Oulahan, "Indiana Scandals Shake Republicans," New York Times, April 14, 1928, p. 4; "The Klan
                            Makes a Getaway," Chicago Daily Tribune, February
                            24, 1928, p. 10.
                        96"Gilliom Takes Rap," Kokomo Daily Tribune, September 8, 1927; "Gilliom Speaks
                            Here," Kokomo Daily Tribune, October 11, 1927;
                            "Gilliom Denounces Horsethief Sleuths," Indianapolis Star, September 20, 1927, p. 15; Arthur L.
                            Gilliom, "Centralization of Government Attacked," Berkeley Daily Gazette, July 2, 1927, p. 4.
                        97"Indiana Politics During the Week,"
                                Tipton Daily Tribune, April 11, 1927, pp. 1,
                            5.
                    
                     elections would invite the IASL, the Klan,
                    and the HTDA to collectively "deal him a wallop from which he could not
                        recover."98
                On January 5, 1928, inspired by Vincennes editor Thomas Adams's earlier
                    independent investigation into super-government and corruption involving elected
                    officials and D. C. Stephenson, Gilliom filed a lawsuit against the already
                    declining Klan in an effort to revoke the organization's charter and evict
                    it from Indiana.99 He and his staff
                    took numerous depositions of former Klan officers, including Hugh E
                    "Pat" Emmons, Exalted Cyclops of St. Joseph
                        County, who, during eight hours of questioning by
                    Gilliom on February 20, 1928, responded to a myriad of questions concerning the
                    Klan's operation in Indiana. Emmons alleged cooperation
                    between the Klan, the IASL, and the HTDA, claiming that he had met with Shumaker
                    twice in the dry leader's room at the Jefferson Hotel during a 1926
                            South Bend political conference for Senator
                    Robinson's re-election.100 At the first meeting, which
                    included Wilbur Ryman (Gilliom's opponent for the nomination of attorney
                    general in 1924), Shumaker allegedly requested that Emmons use his
                    "machine" to get Klan members to attend Robinson's afternoon
                    speech in a local high school auditorium.101 Later, Emmons
                    reportedly returned to Shumaker's room with Ed Grose, a member of the
                    Klan's political committee, for a second meeting during which Shumaker
                    proposed that the IASL, the Klan, the HTDA, and the church cooperate on
                    Robinson's behalf.102
                    
                        98"Indiana Politics During the Week,"
                                Tipton Daily Tribune, October 17, 1927, pp. 1-2;
                            "Stump to Enter U.S. Senate Race, Friends Assert," Indianapolis Star, October 16, 1927, p. 23.
                        99"Revelations of Graft, Klan Rule Shake
                            Indiana," Chicago Daily Tribune, October 3, 1926,
                            p. 2; "Files Suit to Oust Klan: Arthur Gilliom Asks Charter be
                            Revoked," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, January 4,
                            1928, pp. 1, 9; "Asks Klan Disbanded in Indiana," Logansport Press, January 5, 1928, pp. 1, 5.
                        100Emmons was a foe of Gilliom and had no reason
                            to provide answers which would help him politically. Deposition of Hugh
                            F. Emmons, Indiana vs. Knights of Ku Klux Klan, pp.
                            65-68, Marion County Circuit Court, No. 41796, February 20, 1928;
                            Budenz, "Indiana's Anti-Saloon League Goes to Jail," 178;
                            "Emmons Bares Klan Secrets for Gilliom," Kokomo
                                Daily Tribune, February 20, 1928, pp. 1-2.
                        101Deposition of Hugh F Emmons, Indiana vs. Knights of Ku Klux Klan, pp. 100, 54-58, 71, 73,
                            112, 164-65, Marion County Circuit Court, No. 41796, February 20,
                            1928.
                        102According to Emmons, Shumaker tried to remain
                            inconspicuous about these meetings with known Klan members. Deposition
                            of Hugh F Emmons, Indiana vs. Knights of Ku Klux Klan,
                            pp. 75-79, Marion County Circuit Court, No. 41796, February 20, 1928;
                            Tucker, The Dragon and the Cross, 112.
                    
                     Emmons further claimed that he had
                    personally made many speeches on behalf of the IASL and reported that the Klan
                    had worked with Shumaker on the 1924 publication of The American
                        Issue.103 Although Emmons answered numerous
                    questions posed by Gilliom, when the latter urged him to reveal the names of
                    ministers who were Klan members, Emmons refused to comply. And, not
                    surprisingly, both Shumaker and Robinson denied any Klan affiliation
                        whatsoever.104
                In March 1928, Gilliom announced his decision to challenge Robinson for his
                    senatorial seat in that year's elections. Gilliom stated his position on
                    important issues such as the Republican protective tariff policy (for), farm
                    legislation (for permanent farm relief measures), waterway developments (for
                    development by national government to encourage cheap water transport), state
                    sovereignty (for), foreign relations (for freedom from foreign entanglements
                    such as the League of Nations), and Prohibition issues (for more
                    "vigorous" and "lawful" enforcement of the Eighteenth
                    Amendment). Super-government remained his main issue, though, and his speeches
                    openly attacked both the IASL and the Klan. Gilliom suggested that he
                    anticipated the "selfish opposition" of the leaders of these
                    organizations, since he stood for "constitutional representative government
                    . . . while they stand for secret and super-government dictatorships." He
                    went on to declare that "if this nomination cannot be had except by their
                    leave, then I shall not want it."105 Gilliom's
                    platform magnified Republican headaches and strife; already bitterly divided on
                    various issues, fellow 
                        103Deposition of Hugh F. Emmons, Indiana vs. Knights of Ku Klux Klan, pp. 86-93, Marion County
                            Circuit Court, No. 41796, February 20, 1928.
                        104Shumaker provided a rather ambiguous statement
                            in response to Emmons's account of the South
                                    Bend meeting. "Shumaker
                            Answers," Kokomo Daily Tribune, February 23,
                            1928, p. 18. Robinson denied Klan involvement and refuted part of
                            Emmons's testimony by saying that he was not a candidate in 1924;
                            however, Emmons's statements were made with respect to the 1926
                            primaries, when Robinson was up for re-election. "Power Seeking
                            Body, Emmons Klan Picture," Kokomo Daily Tribune,
                            February 21, 1928, pp. 1-2; Deposition of Hugh F. Emmons, Indiana vs. Knights of Ku Klux Klan, pp. 197-98, Marion County
                            Circuit Court, No. 41796, February 20, 1928; "Mr. Gilliom and Mr.
                            Shumaker," news clipping, Arthur L. Gilliom Papers, in possession
                            of the author.
                        105"Gilliom Speech for Release March 27, 1928
                            (Special to Your Paper)," Arthur L. Gilliom Papers, in possession
                            of the author; "Gilliom Out, for Senator, His Program," Kokomo Daily Tribune, March 8, 1928, p. 1;
                            "Gilliom Opens His Campaign for Nomination for Senator," Kokomo Daily Tribune, March 28, 1928, p. 3.
                    
                     party members either agreed with Gilliom,
                    opposed him outright, or wished that he would simply remain quiet to avoid
                    alienating large blocks of voters.106
                Eager to share the blame for the Klan's presence in Indiana, Gilliom charged that a link also existed
                    between the Democrats and the Klan. He pointed to silence from the Democrats on
                    the issue and urged both parties to free themselves from the Klan and the IASL.
                    His accusations drew an angry response-particularly from Democratic Chairman R.
                    Earl Peters, who wasted no time in pointing out that Gilliom must have known
                    about super-government in Indiana (and known how his party met
                    with success) in the 1924 elections, and questioning why Gilliom had not exposed
                    the system then.107 Gilliom was also antagonized by
                    Shumaker, who listed the attorney general as "wet of record" in the
                    April 1928 publication of The American Issue. Gilliom's
                    campaign manager, Ralph K. Kane, charged that it was "more than a
                    coincidence" that an identical classification of Gilliom was also printed
                    in an official Klan publication, The Fellowship Forum. Gilliom
                    himself charged Shumaker with violating the Indiana Corrupt Practices Act by
                    "knowingly and feloniously" mislabeling him. His charge resulted in
                    the arrest of Shumaker, who dutifully surrendered and was released on $1,000
                    bond on May 1, 1928.108 Gilliom offered to cancel the
                    remainder of his campaign 
                        106"G.O.P Leaders Analyze Break," Indianapolis Star, October 23, 1927.
                        107"Gilliom Calls on G.O.P. to Sever Klan
                            Relations," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, September
                            29, 1927, p. 2; "New Moves Awaited in Gilliom-Peters Dispute,"
                                Rushville Daily Republican, September 29, 1927, p.
                            7; "Urges State G.O.P. Break Klan Control," Valparaiso Vidette- Messenger, September 28, 1927, p. 8;
                            "Indiana Politics During the Week," Tipton Daily
                                Tribune, October 17, 1927, pp. 1-2; "Peters-Gilliom
                            Fuss," Tipton Daily Tribune, September 29, 1927,
                            p. 8; "Gilliom Demands Democrats Take Stand on Probe," Indianapolis Star, September 29, 1927, pp. 1, 3;
                            "Demands a Bill of Particulars," Rushville Daily
                                Republican, October 1, 1927, pp. 1, 3; Eugene J. Cadou,
                            "Marion Jury May Return Indictment," Logansport
                                Pharos-Tribune, September 29, 1927, pp. 1, 5; "Gilliom
                            Says Peters Evades Invisible Government Issue," Indianapolis Star, September 30, 1927, p. 3.
                        108Undoubtedly Gilliom's position on
                            medicinal alcohol provided Shumaker and his supporters with reason to
                            believe that he was not, by their definition, a "dry."
                            "Gilliom and Shumaker in Another Fight," Valparaiso Vidette-Messenger, April 3, 1928, p. 1; "State
                            Trend in Politics is Reviewed," Tipton Daily
                                Tribune, April 9, 1928, pp. 1-2; "Shumaker Gives Himself
                            Up and Arranges Bond," Rushville Daily
                            Republican, May 1, 1928, pp. 1, 6; "Shumaker is Again in the
                            Toils of Law," Rushville Daily Republican, April
                            30, 1928, pp. 1, 6; "Resents 'Wet' Charges Made by
                            Shumaker," Kokomo Daily Tribune, April 30, 1928,
                            p. 3; "E. S. Shumaker Under $1,000 Bond in Case," Logansport Press, May 2, 1928, p. 1.
                    
                     speeches if Shumaker would agree to face
                    the charges immediately; Shumaker and his attorneys insisted on delaying his
                    trial until after the primary elections.109
                Gilliom's election bid proved in vain. The primary election results were as
                    predicted, with Robinson clearly winning the Republican nomination for senator
                    with approximately 57 percent of the total vote. While the liberal votes were
                    split between Gilliom (approximately 27 percent) and Solon J. Carter (about 16
                    percent), it was obvious that Robinson would have won the election even if he
                    had had only one opponent.110 Following the primaries,
                    Gilliom again tried to have Shumaker's original sentence increased-this
                    time for the voter guide classification. Again, the court declined; however, the
                    court also denied Shumaker's request for a new hearing and reaffirmed the
                    original contempt charges.111 The only recourse left for
                    Shumaker to avoid prison was an appeal to the United States Supreme Court, an
                    option he chose not to pursue. Instead, he surrendered himself to police custody
                    at the Putnamville jail on October 19, 1928. Shumaker
                    arrived at the jail to find a pardon awaiting him from Governor Jackson-itself a
                    product of the urging of state Republican leaders fearful of the political
                    consequences of his incarceration. Gilliom immediately challenged the pardon on
                    the grounds that the governor lacked legal or constitutional authority to grant
                        it.112 Shumaker was ordered before the Indiana Supreme
                    Court in early December 1928 to show why he should not begin serving his
                    sentence-an action that some observers interpreted as providing the dry leader
                    with an opportunity to apologize to the justices. However, Shumaker remained
                    unremorseful; his attorneys' brief charged that Gilliom had prosecuted
                    Shumaker with "animosity."113 Gilliom emphatically
                    denied 
                        109"Gilliom's Proposal," Kokomo Daily Tribune, May 2, 1928, p. 3; "E.S.
                            Shumaker is Arrested at South Bend," Warsaw
                            Union, May 1, 1928, p. 6; "E.S. Shumaker Under $1,000
                            Bond," Logansport Press, May 2, 1928; "To
                            Delay Hearing," Kokomo Daily Tribune, May 3,
                            1928, p. 12.
                        110"G.O.P. Governor to Convention," Tipton Daily Tribune, May 9, 1928, p. 1.
                        111"Court Reaffirms Shumaker's Jail
                            Sentence: Judges Refuse to Increase His Sentence," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, July 21, 1928, pp. 1-2; "Court
                            Denies Shumaker Plea Reopen Case," Tipton Daily
                                Tribune, July 21, 1928, p. 6.
                        112"Clemency Precedes Dry Chief to
                            Farm," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, October 19,
                            1928, pp. 1, 11; Richard V. Oulahan, "Dry Forces Control Indiana
                            Situation," New York Times, October 24, 1928, p.
                            8.
                        113"Court Calls Shumaker: Appearance is Set
                            for December 1st," Logansport Pharos-Tribune,
                            November 22, 1928, pp. 1-2; "Shumaker Pardon Defended by Brief
                            Filed by Attorney," Linton Daily Citizen,
                            December 6, 1928, p. 1.
                    
                    
                    
                        The members of the Indiana Supreme Court in 1926 (from
                            left, David Myers, Willard B. Gemmill, Julius C. Travis, Benjamin M.
                            Willoughby, and Louis B. Ewbank). Gilliom sought to hold Shumaker
                            accountable for publishing inflammatory remarks about the court.
                            Courtesy of Portraits, Rare Books and Manuscripts Division, Indiana
                            State Library, Indianapolis,
                                    Indiana
                     the charge, saying that Shumaker would not have been punished had he
                    retracted his contemptuous statements and appropriately apologized to the court;
                    instead, Shumaker had only shown defiance, and should accept the
                        consequences.114 Ignoring the second chance contained in
                    Gilliom's final brief, Shumaker steadfastly refused to apologize, and
                    prepared to risk serving a sixty-day term at the penal farm.115
                In court, Gilliom argued that Indiana's Constitution allowed a governor to
                    specifically pardon for criminal offenses (except treason and impeachment).
                    However, Shumaker's contempt charge, he continued, was not a criminal
                    offense under Indiana law (which would have allowed for a jury trial) but was
                    instead summary in nature; the court should enforce the sentence.
                    Shumaker's attorneys, on the other hand, argued that contempt was indeed a
                    criminal offense, and that limiting the governor's power to pardon could
                    lead to an abuse of power by the judicial branch. The court ruled (in the same
                    3-to-2 split as in the original decision) that contempt did not qualify as a
                    criminal offense, that the pardon was invalid, and that Shumaker should be
                    recommitted to prison. The opinion, written by Justice Travis, stated that the
                    power granted the governor was not unlimited or absolute, and that no person
                    from one of the three branches of government should exercise power over any of
                    the other branches "except as expressly provided." Further, 
                        114"Shumaker Contempt Case Rests with State
                            Court," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, December 12,
                            1928, p. 1.
                        115"Prefers 60 Days Jail to Apology,"
                                Waterloo (Iowa) Evening Courier, December 15,
                            1928, p. 1.
                    
                     the court had certain "inherent
                    powers," one of which was to remain free of "defamatory, libelous and
                    degrading attacks which debase the character of the court"; if the governor
                    were permitted to pardon every person held in contempt, the court might be beset
                    by a "howling mob." Martin dissented, stating that this case should be
                    considered "indirect criminal contempt of court" (an action which
                    wronged the general public) and that it therefore fell within "the range of
                    the pardoning prerogative.116 This court decision continues
                    to have far-reaching ramifications in limiting the governor's power to
                    pardon for contempt of court, even in cases which are markedly different from
                        Shumaker's.117
                In the meantime, Gilliom continued to build his case against the Klan. On October
                    15, 1928, he deposed former Grand Dragon Stephenson, posing 492 questions
                    related to various Klan activities. Some of Stephenson's responses echoed
                    Emmons's testimony, including the claim of close cooperation between the
                    IASL and the Klan. Stating that Reverend Shumaker of the IASL was the only
                    person by that surname that he knew, Stephenson alleged that the dry leader had
                    called at his Indianapolis office (but had
                    only actually spoken with him once) and identified notes announcing
                    Shumaker's arrival as having been written by the office stenographer.118 Shumaker continued his legal wrangling by filing of a
                    writ of habeas corpus in federal court, which would have taken him out of the
                    jurisdiction of the state court, extending the legal battle to January 18,
                        1929.119 Once again, Shumaker's attorney, Ethan
                    Miles, contended that his client's actions had indeed been criminal, 
                        ll6State of Indiana v. Shumaker,
                            164 N.E. 408 (Ind. 1928), at 409, 411.
                            "Shumaker May Yet Serve 60 Day Sentence," Logansport Press, December 29, 1928, pp. 1, 3; Transcript of
                            Oral History Interview of Harold Feightner, 1968, p. 54; "Court
                            Calls Shumaker: Appearance is Set For December 1st," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, November 22, 1928, pp. 1-2.
                        117For example, in 1970, Trudy Slaby Etherton,
                            Indiana State Auditor, refused (on orders from Gov. Edgar Whitcomb) to
                            obey court orders to write a check to the Mass Transportation Authority
                            of Indianapolis (MTA). The power struggle between the judicial and
                            legislative branches of Indiana
                            government resulted in Etherton being found guilty of contempt of court.
                            She transferred the funds "under duress" to avoid serving her
                            sentence, which would have been unpardonable since her case involved
                            civil contempt. "Trudy Etherton Ordered tojail, Freed by
                            Writ," Anderson Herald, February 27, 1970, pp.
                            1-2; Margaret Gentry, "Trudy Reluctantly 'Pays Off,' Warsaw Times-Union, March 5, 1970, p. 1.
                        118Deposition of David C. Stephenson, Indiana vs. The Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, pp. 289-300, 315,
                            Marion County Circuit Court, No. 41796, October 15, 1928, Indiana State
                            Archives, Commission on Public Records.
                        119Eugene J. Cadou, "Federal Court Will
                            Decide Shumaker Case Monday: Request Permanent Habeas Corpus Writ for
                            Prohi Chieftain," Logansport Pharos-Tribune,
                            December 29, 1928, p. 1.
                    
                     entitling him to the governor's
                    pardon. In response, Gilliom not only attacked the pardon as being worthless,
                    but also chided Miles for permanently labeling his own client a criminal in an
                    attempt to manipulate an outcome whereby Governor Jackson was entitled to grant
                    a pardon.120 Despite his legal maneuverings and public
                    outcry, Shumaker's private strategy may have ultimately included
                    imprisonment. According to Emmons, Shumaker had asserted that it would be
                    advantageous for both the IASL and the Klan if he were sent to prison,
                    particularly for the league.121 Other Shumaker supporters
                    concurred that imprisonment would accomplish more for "the cause," one
                    going so far as to compare Shumaker to the apostle Paul.122
                Gilliom served his last day as Indiana's attorney general on
                    December 31, 1928. His successor, James M. Ogden (coincidentally an old DePauw
                    University schoolmate of Shumaker's), was left to prosecute Shumaker. He
                    refused Gilliom's offer of continued assistance with the case and dismissed
                    Gilliom's motion to retain Will H. Thompson and Solon Carter as prosecuting
                        attorneys.123 On January 25, 1929, Federal Court Judge
                    Robert C. Baltzell considered Shumaker's application for a writ of habeas
                    corpus and ultimately ruled against Shumaker on all four of the major points he
                    had raised. Baltzell held that the Indiana Supreme Court "had original
                    jurisdiction to cite Shumaker for contempt . . . ; that the court had the right
                    to hear evidence and sentence him; that Jackson . . . had no power to pardon
                    Shumaker; and, that the fact the supreme court did not order [him] back to the
                    farm to complete his sentence until after the calendar term of 60 days had
                    expired made no 
                        120Eugene J. Cadou, "Lively Legal Fight Waged
                            in U.S. Court," Logansport Pharos-Tribune,
                            December 31, 1928, pp. 1, 9.
                        121Deposition of Hugh F Emmons, Indiana vs. Knights of Ku Klux Klan, pp. 81-82, 84, Marion
                            County Circuit Court, No. 41796, February 20, 1928.
                        122W. H. Hickman, Chaplain Dept. of Indiana G.A.R.
                            to Shumaker, November 27, 1927, Edward S. Shumaker Papers, box 2617,
                            Correspondence 1918-1929 Folder, DePauw University Archives; Lantzer,
                                "Prohibition is Here to Stay,"
                            155.
                        123"Ogden Begins Prosecution of
                            Shumaker," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, January 3,
                            1929, pp. 1, 6; "Attorney Wants No Assistance," Oelwein (Iowa) Daily Register, January 3, 1929, p. 1. Gilliom
                            also offered to serve the state without compensation in completing the
                            suit against the Ku Klux Klan, which Ogden rejected. No further action
                            was ever taken in the case, perhaps because in 1928 only a few thousand
                            paid-up Klan members remained in Indiana.
                            Jackson, The Ku Klux Klan in the City, 160;
                            "Refuses to Accept Gilliom's Services in Klan Ouster
                            Suit," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, December 29,
                            1928, p. 5; "May Drop Suit Filed Against State Ku Klux," Rushville Republican, July 23, 1930, pp. 1, 6.
                    
                     difference."124 As
                    a result, the petition was denied, and Shumaker was remanded to the penal farm.
                    Citing the financial costs of an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, Shumaker
                    began serving his sixty-day sentence on February 12, 1929.125
                Following his release from prison, Shumaker became ill and was admitted to the
                    Kellogg Sanitarium in Michigan for treatment. After his
                    lifelong opposition to alcohol and his public attacks on others for the use of
                    medicinal alcohol, he found himself subject to reports that, while hospitalized,
                    he had used a medicinal tonic containing 23 percent alcohol. Shumaker responded
                    that "there is no whiskey in this tonic" and that his treatment was
                    between him and his physician. Upon hearing that alcohol had indeed been used as
                    a "preservative" in the tonic, the dry leader wrote to the sanitarium:
                    "you see by this letter head what my official position is. When our State
                    went dry, it prohibited the use of any intoxicating liquors for medicinal
                    purposes, except pure grain alcohol. I note that your remedy has 23 per cent
                    alcohol and it makes me feel a little queer to take it." While Shumaker
                    still had many supporters, his hypocrisy was not lost on everyone. As one
                            Milwaukee newspaper aptly pointed out, there also
                    was no whiskey "in the light wines and beer that so many people think ought
                    to be permitted."126 Eventually, Shumaker returned home
                    to Indianapolis, where he died on October 25,
                    1929, of a "malignant tumor."127 Although the IASL
                    and his supporters may have cast Shumaker as a martyr and champion of free
                    speech, his drawn-out legal battle and jail sentence also brought embarrassment
                    to the group. Along with other ASL officials around the country who were
                    prosecuted for various misdeeds, he brought negative attention to the
                    organization and contributed to the loss of the respect and influence it had
                    once possessed.128
                
                    124"Shumaker Must Serve Sixty-Day Sentence: U.S.
                        Court Rules against Dry Warrior," Valparaiso
                            Vidette-Messenger, January 25, 1929, p. 1; Shumaker v.
                            Resoner Sheriff, 30 F. 2d 106 (S.D. Indiana
                        1929).
                    125"Enters Institution Again," Logansport Press, February 12, 1929.
                    126"Alcohol Tonic Finds Defender in Dry
                        Leader," Miami (Fla.) Daily News and Metropolis,
                        September 27, 1929, p. 10; "Dry Leader Defends Using Alcoholic
                        Tonic," New York Times, September 9, 1929, p. 33;
                        "Shumaker's Private Affairs," Milwaukee
                            Journal, September 15, 1929, p. 6; "Right About Face,"
                            Ames (Iowa) Daily Tribune and Evening Times, September
                        12, 1929.
                    127Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to
                            Stay," 162; "Dr. E. S. Shumaker Anti-Saloon Leader
                        Succumbs at Home," Linton Daily Citizen, October 26,
                        1929, pp. 1, 6.
                    128Other examples of ASL officials plagued by legal
                        troubles include William Anderson, who was sent to prison, and Bishop James
                        Cannon, charged but never convicted of various misdeeds. Pegram, Battling Demon Rum, 171-73; Transcript of Oral History
                        Interview of Harold Feightner, 1968, pp. 54-55; Lantzer, "Prohibition is Here to Stay," 146-47, 155-57.
                
                
                Just prior to leaving the office of attorney general at age 43, Gilliom announced
                    that he would join the Indianapolis law firm of
                    Pickens, Davidson, Gause, and Pickens.129 After re-entering
                    private practice he never ran for political office again, although he remained
                    an active member of the Republican Party and continued to speak out on issues he
                    considered important, maintaining the same stance on issues that he had espoused
                    while in office.130 Throughout his life, Gilliom emphasized
                    the necessity of preserving representative government in order to protect the
                    constitutional rights and liberties guaranteed to all citizens. He remained a
                    foe of highly organized special-interest minority groups such as the IASL and
                    the Klan, whose tactics he believed could end up robbing citizens of those
                    freedoms and rights. As Indiana's attorney general, with a duty to protect
                    the constitutional rights and freedoms of all Hoosiers (and to uphold the
                    courts' ability to do so as well), he had taken this belief as a mandate to
                    challenge the people who sought to undermine those rights in an effort to
                    promote their own agendas. "The official acts of the Attorney
                    General," Gilliom explained, "will always be determined solely by what
                    the law is, not by what someone would like to see the law stated or not see it
                    stated. The Attorney General acts as a mirror and reflects the law without any
                    regard as to whom it may please or whom it may not please."131
                
                    129"Gilliom to Join Lawyers," Linton Daily Citizen, December 17, 1928.
                    130"Indiana Drys Fight Court Nominations,"
                            New York Times, March 2, 1930; "Anti-Saloon
                        League Again Made an Issue," Valparaiso
                            Vidette-Messenger, February 24, 1930, pp. 1, 3; "Gilliom
                        Charges Rattle Skeleton," Tipton Daily Tribune, March
                        4, 1930, p. 3; "Resounding Echoes of Morrow's Prohibition
                        Speech," and Harold C. Feightner, "A Responsive Chord is Struck in
                        Indiana," New York Times, May 25, 1930, pp. 5, 8;
                        "25 South Bend Poll Workers are Removed," Valparaiso
                            Vidette-Messenger, November 3, 1936, pp. 1, 2; "Vigilantes
                        Chosen for Election Day by Indiana G.O.P.," Logansport
                            Pharos-Tribune, October 27, 1936, p. 4; "Heads State G.O.P.
                        Clubs," Logansport Pharos-Tribune, September 17,
                        1936, p. 12; "Gilliom Gives Advice to Republicans," Hammond Times, November 18, 1936, p. 2; "A. R. [sic] Gilliom Strikes Blow at Liquor Liaison," Hammond Times, November 21, 1936, p. 1.
                    131Address of Hon. Arthur L. Gilliom,
                            Attorney General of Indiana before the Public Service Commission,
                        December 16, 1926, Indiana Pamphlet Collection, Indiana State
                        Library.
                
            
            
            
                Charles Case A Radical Republican in the Irrepressible
                    Conflict
                PEGGY SEIGEL
                During the decade leading up to the Civil War, conflicts over slavery challenged
                    citizens in northeast Indiana to examine the most basic
                    principles of their democracy. While most hoped that the compromise measures of
                    1850 would silence the demands of slave states, they were pulled into an
                    escalating series of crises and finally, into civil war. The Fugitive Slave Law
                    of 1850, meant to appease the South, outraged northerners as it was enforced on
                    their free soil. Citizens across the political spectrum felt betrayed by the
                    Kansas-Nebraska Act of 1854 which allowed for the possibility of slavery in
                    western territories that the 1820 Missouri Compromise had promised to keep free
                    forever. Hoping for peace with the South, a majority of Hoosiers voted for James
                    Buchanan as president in 1856, based upon the Democratic Party's pledge to
                    support free territorial elections to decide the territorial quagmire.
                    Buchanan's role as a compromiser was short-lived, however, for he soon
                    sided with southern politicians intent on bringing Kansas
                    into the Union as a slave state. The conflict over Kansas
                    rapidly deepened into irreversible political crisis. Violent clashes raged from
                    the floor of the Congress to Kansas territory, deepening sectional
                    allegiances. Fort Wayne
                        Peggy Seigel is the author of "A Passionate Missionary to the
                            West: Charles Beecher in Fort Wayne, Indiana, 1844-1850," which
                            appeared in the December 2010 issue of the IMH.
                    
                     residents, divided in their support for
                    Abraham Lincoln in the November 1860 election, were largely united in their
                    passion to preserve the national union. During the secession months of the 36th
                    Congress in December 1860 and the first months of 1861, ordinary citizens, like
                    their elected officials, passed through stages of panic, denial, and finally,
                    resolve.
                Among the leaders in this transformation was Hoosier lawyer, political organizer,
                    Republican congressman, and future Civil War officer Charles Case. Reflecting
                    the position generally described as "radical Republican," Case
                    believed that the Declaration of Independence ensured freedom and basic rights
                    for all Americans, including African Americans. As Indiana's Tenth District
                    representative in the 35th and 36th Congresses, he stood firm against the
                    extension of slavery into western territories and steadfastly exposed the
                    corruption of the Buchanan administration. During the secession winter of
                    1860-1861, Case teamed with the radical faction of the Republican Party in
                    Congress, strongly arguing against concessions that he believed would betray the
                    nation's principles and weaken the national government. Amidst bitter
                    factionalism and disorder, Case defended the Republican Party, the preservation
                    of the Constitution, and president-elect Abraham Lincoln.1
                Charles Case's uncompromising principles may have cost him renomination to
                    Congress in 1860. In the place of politics, at age 44, he began over three years
                    of service with Union forces that included the battle of Fort Donelson and
                    Sherman's campaign through Georgia. After the
                    war, he resumed law practice-first in Fort Wayne,
                    then in New Orleans, and finally, during his last
                    eight years, in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                     Following his death at age 66 in 1883, he was buried in the
                    Congressional Cemetery.
                
                    1Eric Foner defines the radical Republicans of the
                        1850s as those who exhibited "a persistent refusal to compromise with
                        the South on any question including slavery." Eric Foner, Free Soil, Free Labor; Free Men: The Ideology of the Republican Party
                            before the Civil War (1970; New York,
                        1995), 103-148. Among those frequently associated with the radical element
                        of the party in the 35th and 36th Congresses were Charles Sumner
                                (Mass.), Preston King
                                (N.Y.), and Benjamin Wade (Ohio)
                        in the Senate; Joshua Giddings (Ohio), Owen P.
                        Lovejoy (Ill.), Thaddeus Stevens (Penn.), John Gurley (Ohio), and George Washington Julian
                                (Ind.) in the House. Julian of
                                Centerville,
                                Wayne
                                County, served in Congress before and after
                        Charles Case. Patrick W. Riddleberger, George Washington
                            Julian, Radical Republican (Indianapolis, Ind., 1966);
                        David M. Potter, Lincoln and His Party in the Secession
                            Crisis (New Haven,
                                Conn., 1942), 176-77.
                
                
                
                    Congressman Charles Case. This 1859 photograph depicts Case
                        during his first of two terms in the U.S. House of Representatives, where he
                        consistently spoke and voted against attempts to allow the spread of slavery
                        into new western territories. Courtesy, Prints and Photographs
                        Division, Library of Congress
                
                
                Despite his leadership in a time of national crisis, Case was largely forgotten,
                    both in his own time by a town that by 1864 had turned against Lincoln in favor
                    of his Democratic opponent George McClellan, and by historians, who seldom
                    include Case in the small group of radical Republicans identified with
                            Indiana. A study of Case brings overdue awareness
                    of a less-known side of Indiana's antebellum political
                    history. More importantly, Case's career adds to our understanding of the
                    Republican antislavery movement in the Old Northwest preceding Lincoln's
                    inauguration. Finally, such a study draws attention to an exceptional individual
                    who exemplified the ideals of a more just society.2
                Born in 1817 in Ashtabula County, part of
                            Ohio's Western Reserve, Charles Case was
                    well-placed to grow into a man with a deep sense of social justice. More than
                    most other areas of Ohio-and any part of Indiana-the Reserve was settled by New Englanders,
                    and, as early as 1832, it welcomed Yankee missionaries who came to the West to
                    spread their moral revolt against American slavery. Foreshadowing his future
                    political interests, Case delivered his first public speech, in 1837, on the
                    necessity of ending slavery in the 
                        District of Columbia
                    . In the audience was Joshua Giddings, a formidable attorney and
                    outspoken antislavery leader who was about to begin twenty years in the House of
                    Representatives. The next year, Case began his formal study of law under two of
                    the Reserve's other leading attorneys, Benjamin Wade and R. P. Ranney. At
                    the beginning of a long political career that would take him to the United
                    States Senate, Wade was then leading a fight in the Ohio
                    legislature to repeal the state's black laws and to defeat attempts to
                    tighten state laws governing fugitive slaves.3
                
                    2According to Mark Neely, Allen County Democrats'
                        racial fears accounted for Lincoln's unpopularity. Neely is quoted in
                        the Fort Wayne News-Sentinel, November 13, 1982. John D.
                        Beatty argues that Fort Wayne Democrats strongly opposed Lincoln's 1864
                        draft and feared the administration's use of government powers.
                        "Fort Wayne in the Civil War Era 1855 - 1870," in John D. Beatty,
                        ed., History of Fort Wayne and Allen County
                                (Evansville,
                                Ind., 2006). See also Beatty, "'The
                        Douglas' Has Come!': Stephen A. Douglas and the Presidential
                        Campaign of 1860 in Fort Wayne, Indiana," Old Fort
                            News 72 no. 2 (2009); and Kerry Hubartt, "City Sent Thousands
                        to Civil War Front Lines," Fort Wayne News-Sentinel,
                        April 11, 2011.
                    3W. W. Williams, History of Ashtabula
                            County, Ohio (Philadelphia, 1878), 34;
                        G. W. Julian, The Life of Joshua R. Giddings
                                (Chicago, 1892), 45; A. G. Riddle,
                        "Rise of Anti-Slavery Sentiment in the Western Reserve," roll 8,
                        box 51, Wilbur H. Siebert Collection Microfilm Edition, MIC 192, Ohio
                        Historical Society Archives/Library, Columbus,
                                Ohio (hereafter Siebert Collection); G. L.
                        Dumaree, "The 'Underground Railroad' in the Western Reserve
                        of Ohio," roll 12, box 60, Siebert Collection; "Death of Colonel
                        Case," Fort Wayne Daily Gazette, July 2, 1883;
                        "Hon. Charles Case, Reminiscences of One of the Original
                        Abolitionists," Fort Wayne Gazette, February 27,
                        1873; Jane H. Pease and William H. Pease, Bound with Them in
                            Chains: A Biographical History of the Antislavery Movement
                                (Westport, Conn.,
                        1972), 257; Douglas A. Gamble, "Joshua Giddings and the Ohio
                        Abolitionists: A Study in Radical Politics," Ohio
                            History 88 (Winter 1979), 49; H. L. Trefousse, Benjamin Franklin Wade: Radical Republican from Ohio
                                (New York, 1963), 34.
                

                
                In his first years in legal practice, Case already evinced the anti-slavery
                    philosophy of Giddings and Wade. As Congressman Case later recalled of his early
                    antislavery position: When it was comparatively
                        unpopular to be called an anti-slavery man, my sentiments were never
                        concealed; and, sir, as to the inherent right or wrong of these questions, I
                        have not changed my opinions from that day to this. His reputation
                    grew as a result of his successful defense of a fugitive slave named Clarke in
                    1842. By the end of the decade, Case had followed his mentors into politics.
                    Acquisition of territories as a result of the Mexican War had created new fears
                    that slavery would expand west. Convinced that the existing political parties
                    were bowing to southern demands, in 1848 Case joined Giddings and other
                    defecting Ohio Whigs in organizing the Free Soil Party, whose platform
                    emphasized that prosperity was only available in the free social system of the
                    North. That summer, he served as a delegate to the national convention in
                            Buffalo that nominated Martin Van Buren for
                    president. At about the same time, Case moved to Bryan in the northwest corner
                    of Ohio, where he edited a Free Soil newspaper and
                    campaigned against the spread of slavery.4
                Case's decision to move to Fort Wayne
                    in 1850 was likely made for both personal and professional reasons. Benjamin S.
                    Woodworth, a friend from student days, had started a medical practice in the
                    northern Indiana town four years earlier. The promise of
                    economic growth would also have appealed to the thirty-three-year-old attorney
                    with a wife and three young children to support. After the first railroad came
                    through in 1852, the town of some 5,000 citizens began to transition from a
                    significant hub on the Wabash & Erie
                        Canal to a major midwestern rail center. Newcomers
                    from eastern states and from Germany were arriving daily.
                
                    4Congressional Globe, 35th Cong., 2d Sess. 981 (1859);
                            Fort Wayne Gazette, February 27, 1873. Case explained
                        his political background in letters published October 5, 1854, in the Fort Wayne Times and The (Fort Wayne)
                            Standard.
                
                
                At this early point in his career, Case practiced with two of the town's
                    leading lawyers, Joseph Edgerton and James Worden. Since settling in the town in
                    1843, Edgerton had promoted the development of canals and had already acquired
                    significant wealth as a land speculator. In 1850, he now turned his attention to
                    bringing railroads through the area and likely anticipated a growing legal
                    practice. Case and Edgerton advertised their "special attention to Land
                    Agency, and the Selecting and Collecting of Debts in any part of
                            Indiana" with a practice in both state and
                    federal courts. Within a year, Case formed a partnership with James Worden, the
                    Allen County prosecutor. Like many other citizens in the West, Case also began a
                    pattern of buying and selling local property.5
                Case found the residents of Fort Wayne sharply divided
                    over slavery. The opinion expressed in January 1850 in the Fort
                        Wayne Sentinel, the town's Democratic newspaper, captured the
                    reluctance of many to challenge the growing demands of southern states. It was
                    better to repress the question of slavery, the Sentinel's
                    editor argued, better not to stir the "monomania" and
                    "fanaticism" that was taking hold of southern members of Congress. In
                    October, Congress passed the Omnibus Bill, and optimists hoped that its
                    compromises would stem southern aggression. California was
                    to come into the Union as a free state; the decision to allow slavery in the
                    vast New
                            Mexico territory would be deferred; the slave trade
                    would be abolished in the 
                        District of Columbia
                    . "The territorial slavery question is settled," wrote the
                        Fort Wayne Times on October 10, 1850, ignoring the deep
                    revulsion created by another part of the compromise bill, the Fugitive Slave
                        Law.6
                Across political allegiances, many Fort Wayne
                    citizens found the harsh provisions in the new slave law morally repulsive. The
                        Sentinel deemed it "obnoxious" and a
                    "godsend to the abolitionists, in giving them something by which to keep up
                    the agitation on that everlasting slavery topic." Case considered it
                    "a law of unparalleled injustice and cruelty," "a nauseous
                    cup" forced on northerners to prevent disunion. Local religious leaders
                    reminded citizens that Christians had an obligation to help those in need, even
                    if that meant disobeying the law. Moreover, many northerners felt that allowing
                    federal commissioners to transport fugitive slaves across state lines and
                    denying slaves representation in court violated a common sense of justice. Fines
                    as great as 
                        5Fort Wayne Times, August 8,
                            1850; Fort Wayne Daily Gazette, July 2, 1883.
                        6Fort Wayne Sentinel, January 5,
                            1850; Fort Wayne Times, October 10, 1850.
                    
                     $1,000, six months imprisonment, and heavy
                    civil damages were seen to unfairly penalize those who followed their religious
                        beliefs.7
                Despite uneasiness over the new law, Fort Wayne
                    citizens shared a widespread exhaustion among Hoosiers over race-related issues.
                    Like voters across the state, they overwhelmingly approved the 1850-1851 state
                    constitutional convention's controversial Article XIII, which prohibited
                    African Americans from moving into the state. Furthermore, blacks already living
                    in the state prior to November 1851 were required to sign a formal register as a
                    testimony of their earlier residence. Case was among the minority who objected
                    on principle. Years later in a speech in the House of Representatives, he
                    recalled the similarity of his vote on Article XIII with his vote on the
                    constitution proposed for Oregon's admission to statehood.
                    He believed that African Americans had legal rights under the U.S. Constitution,
                    and both votes were "a question of humanity."8
                Widespread opposition to the Fugitive Slave Law was nevertheless evident during
                    the summer of 1851, when both Whig and Democratic candidates for the Tenth
                    Congressional District seat pledged to repeal the act if they were elected. Such
                    a direct promise was not surprising from Whig candidate Samuel Brenton, a
                    well-known minister of the Methodist Episcopal Church, a denomination strongly
                    on record against slavery. Indicating a shift in popular opinion, Democratic
                    candidate Judge James W. Borden took a similar position. Even in traditionally
                    Democratic Allen
                            County, Brenton had a strong showing, reportedly
                    drawing first-time voters from "the most secluded corners of
                    backwoods." When the votes were counted for the fourteen counties
                    comprising the district, Brenton showed a narrow three-hundred-vote victory.9
                
                    7Fort Wayne Sentinel, October 19,
                        1850; The Standard, August 3, 1854. A helpful summary of
                        the provisions is in H. Robert Baker, The Rescue of Joshua
                            Glover: A Fugitive Slave, the Constitution, and the Coming of the Civil
                            War (Athens, Ohio,
                        2006), 52. On reaction to the law in Indiana, see
                        Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                            1850-1880 (Indianapolis,
                                Ind., 1965), 50-51.
                    8Congressional Globe, 35th Cong., 2d Sess. 981 (1859).
                        On Article XIII of the 1851 Indiana Constitution, see Emma Lou Thornbrough,
                            The Negro in Indiana Before 1900: A Study of a
                            Minority (1985; Bloomington, Ind., 1993),
                        63-73.
                    9Fort Wayne Sentinel, July 19, 1851;
                            Fort Wayne Times, July 24, September 4, 1851; Indiana True Democrat, July 31, 1851. In 1851, the Tenth
                        Congressional District included fourteen counties: Adams, Allen,
                                Blackford, DeKalb,
                                Delaware, Grant,
                                Huntington, Jay,
                                LaGrange, Noble,
                                Randolph, Steuben,
                                Wells, and Whitley.
                
                
                Brenton's first term in the U.S. Congress was limited to only one year under
                    the calendar in the revised Indiana constitution. Although he was widely
                    applauded for his principled service and was renominated in 1852, he lost to the
                    Democratic candidate, likely due to the disintegration of the Whig Party. In the
                    national elections, Democrat Franklin Pierce took the reins as president with a
                    somber pledge to uphold all provisions of the 1850 compromise. During this
                    period of relative national calm, Case served on Fort
                        Wayne's first school board and joined
                    temperance supporters in pushing for state legislation to prohibit the
                    manufacture and sale of whiskey. For a short period he served as co-editor of
                    the local movement's campaign newspaper, The
                        Prohibitionist.10
                When Congress passed Sen. Stephen A. Douglas's Kansas-Nebraska Act at the
                    end of May 1854, Case was pulled into a long-feared political storm. Northerners
                    were stunned by the bill's repeal of the Missouri Compromise. The newly
                    formed territories of Kansas and Nebraska were now subject to popular sovereignty, a
                    policy whereby voters would decide if slavery was to be allowed. While Douglas
                    and his supporters tried to assure the country that this policy would fairly
                    settle the slavery issue, northerners were convinced that the slave power had
                    won an astounding victory. The Missouri Compromise had been considered a sacred
                    trust. In Fort Wayne, as across the North, waves of
                    protests swiftly began a political revolution.11
                Within days, Case and other opposition leaders launched a newspaper to oppose the
                    unlimited spread of slavery threatened by the Kansas-Nebraska Act. In its June 1
                    debut, The Standard announced the editors' intention to
                    discuss "the question of Slavery, so far as we of the north are interested
                    in it, in all its bearings, fairly and truthfully it is hoped." Taking its
                    support for reform still further, The Standard promised to be
                    "unequivocally and prominently the advocate of 'Equal Rights'
                    opposing whatever conflicts with such rights, whether it be Involuntary 
                        10Baker, The Rescue of Joshua
                                Glover, 55. Following defeat of a funding referendum to build
                            the town's first public school, Case and two fellow board
                            members-banker Hugh McCulloch and former mayor William Stewart-resigned.
                            John D. Beatty, "A City Takes Root: Fort Wayne's Pioneer
                            Development 1819-1855, in Beatty, ed., History of Fort
                                Wayne and Allen County, 38. Case's co-editors on The Prohibitionist were fellow attorneys Lindley M.
                            Ninde and John Hough Jr. Fort Wayne Times, May 31,
                            1854.
                        11On Douglas's motives and the political
                            fallout within the Democratic Party, see Allan Nevins, Ordeal of the Union: A House Dividing, 1852-1857 (
                                    New York, 1947), 2:102,
                            157; and Foner, Free Soil, Free Labor; Free Men,
                            155-62.
                    
                     Personal Servitude, or any other violation
                    of the doctrine, of 'equal and exact justice to all men."' While
                    the editors would also give attention to other reforms of the day-especially
                    temperance and universal education-the newspaper's emphasis was clearly on
                    the issue of slavery.12
                Standard publisher Daniel W. Burroughs was a Vermont native, Baptist minister, and bookstore owner
                    who dabbled in homeopathic cures. As an inspector for the local board of health
                    and the sealer of weights and measures, he was also a trusted public servant.
                    Burroughs seemed to have been best known about town, however, as a passionate
                    reformer who had organized early temperance societies. In 1846, he had led the
                    regional Baptist association in denouncing the sin of slavery, thus putting
                    Baptists in northeast Indiana on record, alongside
                    Presbyterians and Methodists, as part of the evangelical antislavery crusade.
                    Moreover, Burroughs was believed to participate in the clandestine work of the
                    Underground Railroad. Any newspaper skills that he lacked, he found in the young
                    attorney Charles Case.13
                As editor during the Standard's first months in the summer
                    of 1854, Case brought issues relating to slavery and the Kansas-Nebraska Act
                    before his readers by reprinting stories from other newspapers. He also reported
                    in detail on local affairs, including the meetings organizing the new
                    People's political party. Following journalistic practices of the day, he
                    wrote from a strong personal bias. Case's report of a widely publicized
                    fugitive slave case, for example, conveyed a deep outrage over the increased
                    power of slave states. The man Anthony Burns, has been
                        sent back to servitude. We have full accounts of the affair from the time of
                        his arrest until we (the free Sovereigns of the whole North we
                            mean) marched him between double columns of troops surrounded by a
                        hundred deputy Marshalls armed with swords and revolvers, from the Boston
                        Slave-pen to Long Wharf, and on board the U.S. vessel which carried him back
                        to 'Old Virginia!'
                    
                        12The Standard, June 1, 1854;
                            Peggy Seigel, "The Fort Wayne Standard: A Reform
                            Newspaper in the 1850s Storm," Indiana Magazine of
                                History 47 (September 2001), 169-89.
                        13Peggy Seigel, "Fort Wayne's Road to
                            Freedom: Another Look at the Underground Railroad," Old Fort News 73 no. 2 (2010), 9.
                    
                     Case told readers that he had spared them
                    the full details, unable to reconcile the event to his concept of a free
                    America. "For the present it is enough to say, that Slavery has
                    triumphed," he wrote. "When within forty years past, was it otherwise?
                    When will it be otherwise, so long as such mockery of all justice as the
                    Fugitive Slave law, remains the law of the Land?" Several weeks later, Case
                    pointed out the irony of celebrating freedom on the Fourth of July when more
                    than three million African Americans were legally enslaved. Case described the
                    groans "into the ears of Freedom's God" that told "the story
                    of a nation's confessed Hypocrisy . . . . Strange progress have we made
                    since July fourth Seventeen hundred and seventy six! "14
                In early August, Case hailed a recent legal victory in Wisconsin as "the first judicial blow to the
                    monstrous" Fugitive Slave Law. The widely publicized case carried
                    significance on two levels. First, the Wisconsin Supreme Court had acquitted
                    prominent abolitionist attorney Sherman Booth of charges of promoting the escape
                    of a fugitive slave. What Case recognized as cause for even greater celebration
                    was the upholding of the defense argument regarding states' rights.
                    Reversing the doctrine used by southerners to justify slavery, the court agreed
                    that northern states were not legally bound to sanction slavery. Because each
                    state had power over slavery, the Fugitive Slave Law was unconstitutional and
                    could not be enforced. Furthermore, the court had upheld the opinion on appeal.
                    "Years hence," Case wrote of this landmark decision, "the year
                    1854... shall furnish a bright page amidst its general darkness."15
                By July 1854, Case found himself in the middle of local efforts to defeat the
                    pro-Kansas-Nebraska Democrats in the coming fall elections. On July 1, a large
                    opposition group made up of men from several political parties came together in
                    a mass meeting. Attendees appointed Case to a committee to choose officers, to
                    draw up resolutions, and then to argue for their approval. Reflecting on the
                    surprisingly large and enthusiastic crowd packed into the county courthouse,
                    Case wrote of their earnest attention to Brenton's remarks and "the
                    hearty and oft repeated cheers, which greeted all the speakers." After each
                    call for a vote on a resolution, the crowd responded with "loud
                    unanimous" shouts of 
                        14Nevins, Ordeal of the Union,
                            2:152; The Standard, June 8, July 6, 1854.
                        15The Standard, August 3, 1854.
                            See Baker, The Rescue of Joshua Glover, for a detailed
                            analysis of the legal proceedings and the series of challenges in
                            following years.
                    
                     approval. United in a common cause, Whigs,
                    anti-Nebraska Democrats, Free Soilers, and Know Nothings pledged to restore the
                    compromise of 1820, to oppose recognition of slavery as a national institution
                    sanctioned by the federal government, and to "never consent to any
                    compromise with slavery." In its final business, the meeting appointed Case
                    to a central committee to organize township anti-Nebraska
                    associations and encouraged everyone to attend the upcoming mass state meeting
                    "of the people" in Indianapolis.16
                In his last weeks as The Standard's editor, Case used the
                    paper to campaign for the new anti-Nebraska party. He
                    stressed the urgency of current events, telling readers that proslavery settlers
                    moving into Kansas had promised bloodshed to anyone who
                    opposed the introduction of slavery. In a series of editorials under the heading
                    "Keep it before the People," Case attacked the Democratic Party's
                    reversal of its earlier positions against slavery extension. At their recent
                    national convention in Baltimore, Democrats had
                    pledged "to resist all attempts at renewing, in Congress or out of it, the
                    agitation of the question." "Keep it before the People," Case
                    wrote: "The Democracy were right in 1849, when they - Resolved, That the
                    institution of slavery ought not to be introduced into any territory where it
                    does not exist."17
                In September, the new People's Party unanimously nominated Brenton for
                    another term as Tenth District representative. Case accepted the nomination for
                            Allen
                            County representative to the state legislature. In
                    the October elections, Brenton defeated the Democratic incumbent in seven out of
                    the district's eight counties. Statewide, People's Party candidates
                    took nine out of eleven seats in the U.S. House of Representatives, showing
                    formidable strength in all but the southern third of the state. People's
                    candidates also won control of the Indiana House. In Allen
                        County, however, Brenton and Case both lost.18
                
                    16The Standard, July 6, July 13,
                        1854. Ten thousand "freemen of Indiana"
                        attended the meeting, according to the Fort Wayne Daily
                            Times, July 16, 1855. On the People's Party and the subsequent
                        formation of the Republican Party in Indiana, see
                        Charles Zimmerman, "The Origin and Rise of the Republican Party in
                        Indiana from 1854 to 1860," Indiana Magazine of
                            History 13 (September 1917), 211-69.
                    17The Standard, August 3, 1854. On
                        settlement in Kansas after the 1854 act, see Nevins, Ordeal of the Union, 2:307-312.
                    18The Tenth Congressional District now included
                                Allen
                            , DeKalb,
                                Elkhart, Koskiosko,
                                LaGrange, Noble,
                                Steuben, and Whitley
                        Counties.
                

                
                According to the editor of The Times, Brenton's defeat in
                            Fort Wayne was due to the importation of
                    out-of-district voters, a frequent form of election fraud. Other explanations
                    seem equally likely. Brenton and Case had both supported the recently passed
                    state prohibition law, which divided local voters, particularly the town's
                    German Americans. Many immigrant voters opposed slavery in western territories,
                    but restricting the manufacture and sale of alcohol ran counter to their
                    cultural traditions. Furthermore, German Americans distrusted the faction of
                    anti-immigration Know Nothings within the People's Party.19
                At the end of July 1855, James P. Brown, a young man from Ohio
                    described as "mulatto," was arrested under Article XIII of the revised
                    Indiana Constitution and brought before Allen County Circuit Court Judge James
                    Borden. Borden was a prominent Democrat who four years earlier had served as one
                    of the county's two representatives to the state constitutional convention.
                    Now, as judge of the Court of Common Pleas, Borden was tasked with enforcing the
                    provisions of the new state constitution. Case and Lindley Ninde, another
                    attorney known for his strong Free Soil views, volunteered to represent the
                        defendant.20
                Case argued that Brown did not meet the narrow definitions of "negro, a full
                    blooded African" or "mulatto," a person half-black and
                    half-white, intended by Article XIII. Furthermore, he claimed that since there
                    was no proof of Brown's race, there was no justification for his arrest.
                    The prosecutor insisted on the meanings of "negro" and
                    "mulatto" as defined by Indiana's
                    black laws. Under these laws, persons with as little as one-eighth
                    "negro" blood were denied basic civil rights such as testifying
                    against a white person, voting, or serving in the militia. In what was
                    considered a major departure from his political colleagues, 
                        19The Standard, September 7,
                            October 19, 1854; Fort Wayne Times, September 14,
                            1854, January 4, 1855; Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil
                                War Era, 67; Nevins, Ordeal of the Union,
                            2:128. Richard L. May points out that because the Kansas-Nebraska Bill
                            denied suffrage to naturalized citizens settling in Kansas, recent German immigrants would not
                            have favored the bill. May, "Notes on Formation of the Republican
                            Party in Fort Wayne, Indiana 1852 - 1858," Old Fort
                                News 30 no. 1 (1967), 6-10.
                        20Lindley Ninde was an Allen
                                    County delegate to the Free Soil state
                            convention in Indianapolis on May
                            17, 1852. One of the resolutions adopted was "That the notorious
                            13th article of the recently adopted Constitution of this State is not
                            only a palpable violation, but a direct contradiction of the principles
                            avowed in the first article of that instrument, and of the principles
                            avowed in the Federal constitution, which declare that all men are
                            created equal." The Indiana True Democrat, May
                            27, 1852.
                    
                     Judge Borden agreed with Case's
                    position and ordered Brown to be discharged.21
                The detailed coverage in The Times was a barometer of public
                    opinion. Like many northerners, the newspaper's editor, John Dawson, had
                    conflicting attitudes about race. While he adamantly opposed the extension of
                    slavery, he attacked abolitionists as troublemakers and ridiculed their advocacy
                    of social equality. Nevertheless, he drew a strong line against the enforcement
                    of laws that threatened basic concepts of social justice. He praised Case as
                    "a friend of humanity and liberty." He described Article XIII as an
                    "atrocious" law "that would shame the tyranny of
                            
                            Austria or the oppression of Turkey" and that "made a man guilty for
                    wearing a black skin, when he has no power to make it white." Dawson also
                    praised the local African American community, noting "their quiet, orderly,
                    yet anxious watching of the whole proceedings." Moreover, he stressed that
                    his views were shared by the wider community and noted that many of his readers
                    had expressed "aid and sympathy. "22
                In Fort
                            Wayne, as across the nation, events in the
                    spring of 1856 created a sense of alarm. South Carolina Rep. Preston Brooks
                    viciously attacked Sen. Charles Sumner of Massachusetts
                    in the Senate chamber. Despite the paralyzing severity of Sumner's
                    injuries, House members failed to raise the necessary two-thirds vote to expel
                    Brooks. In Kansas, proslavery and free-state settlers claimed
                    control over separate territorial governments at Lecompton and Topeka.
                    President Pierce, siding with proslavery forces, ordered more than 500 federal
                    troops to the area, but they did little to keep the peace. In November 1855,
                    over 1,500 "border ruffians" from Missouri marched
                    on the free-soil town of Lawrence. After the first group
                    was persuaded by proslavery Gov. Wilson Shannon 
                        21An 1853 state law declared that no person
                            "having one-eighth or more of Negro blood" could testify in
                            any case involving a white person. Thornbrough, The Negro
                                in Indiana, 123.
                        22Fort Wayne Times, August 2, 3,
                            9, October 29, 1855. The Standard, September 14, 1854,
                            published a detailed report on Indiana's black laws, attempting to increase
                            public awareness of and sympathy for the free black population in the
                            state. For studies of Fort
                                Wayne antislavery religious leaders, see
                            George R. Mather, Frontier Faith: The Story of the Pioneer
                                Congregations of Fort Wayne, Indiana, 1820-1860
                                    (Fort Wayne,
                                    Ind., 1992); Peggy Seigel,
                            "Who's Hiding in our Basements? Abolitionists and the
                            Underground Railroad in Allen County, Indiana Reconsidered," Old Fort News 60 no. 2 (2003). In 1860, Congressman
                            Schuyler Colfax, representative from South
                                Bend, remembered that even in the
                            "Democratic county of Allen
                            County," Article XIII was not enforced.
                            Congressional Globe, 36th Cong., 1st Sess. 1903 (1860).
                    
                    
                    
                        "Liberty, the fair maid of Kansas, in the hands of the 'border
                            ruffians,' 1856. President Franklin Pierce stands in the middle
                            over the figure of Kansas, as Sen. Stephen
                            Douglas (far right) and James Buchanan (far left) join him and their
                            fellow "border ruffians" attacking anti-slavery settlers in
                            the territory. Courtesy, Rare Book and Special Collections
                            Division, Library of Congress
                     to disperse, another group of 800 formed in May 1856 and rampaged
                    through Lawrence, destroying buildings and looting.
                    Violence escalated a few days after the attack on Lawrence, when antislavery zealot John Brown led
                    seven men in a massacre of proslavery settlers at Pottawatomie
                        Creek. Brown and his men split the skulls of five of
                    their victims and then hacked their bodies to pieces. Kansas
                    was in the midst of a brutal civil conflict.23
                Moral outrage and fear over events in Kansas ignited the
                    North. By the summer of 1856, the remnants of the Whig Party had come together
                    with many Free Soilers and Know Nothings, and some anti-Nebraska Democrats, to
                    form the new Republican Party. Early in June, Brenton and Case spoke before
                    "tremendous" audiences about "Free Kansas and its
                    incidents," attracting "enthusiasm" that "far exceeded any
                    thing yet witnessed in Fort Wayne." When
                    Republicans met in Philadelphia in the same
                    month for their first national convention, they committed themselves 
                        23Nevins, Ordeal of the Union,
                            2:434-36, 449; James M. McPherson, Battle Cry of Freedom:
                                The Civil War Era (New
                                York, 1988), chap. 5.
                    
                     to the "preservation of republican
                    institutions" and the return to "the principles of Democracy"
                    articulated in the Declaration of Independence. They demanded the admission of
                            Kansas as a free state and the prohibition of the
                    spread of slavery, assailing the institution as a "relic of
                    barbarism." Delegates chose the dashing explorer John Fremont as their
                    nominee for president, hoping that they had found a leader "to command
                    respect and crystallize into one solid mass the popular elements of hostility to
                    the Democratic ticket."24
                In the summer of 1856, Case led district Republican campaigns, everywhere drawing
                    spontaneous crowds. He shared the podium with gubernatorial nominee Oliver P.
                    Morton; he crisscrossed the district stumping for Brenton and Frmont. Young men
                    on horseback formed Frmont Clubs; Case spoke at rallies with local bands and
                    glee clubs, and a large presence of women and children. Again and again, Case
                    "stirred the blood of every auditor as he depicted the brutal outrages in
                            Kansas and the corruption of the [Pierce]
                    Administration in 
                        Washington
                    ." In the Tenth District, as acrossIndiana, the Frmont campaign "touched the
                    popular heart" and took on the aspect of a religious crusade. Against this
                    tide of enthusiasm, Democrats portrayed Frmont and the Republicans as
                    "disunionists" and tried to convince voters that James Buchanan would
                    bring peace to Kansas. Campaign banners promised "Buchanan,
                    Breckenridge and Free Kansas." The career politician known as "Old
                    Functionary" had served the Pierce administration as minister to
                            England; his separation from the Kansas-Nebraska
                    crisis worked strongly to his advantage. 25
                When the election returns came back in October, Republicans in
                            Fort Wayne had some cause for celebration.
                    Voter turnout had been at an all-time high. Brenton was elected for a third
                    term, now for the Republican Party, and Morton won the governorship for the new
                    party's state ticket. While Fort Wayne
                    voters supported Buchanan as the "safe" 
                        24Fort Wayne Daily Times, June
                            6, 1856; New York Daily Times, June 21, 1856; Nevins,
                                Ordeal of the Union, 2:449, 460; Riddleberger, George Washington Julian, Radical Republican, 115;
                            Potter, Lincoln and His Party in the Secession Crisis,
                            2.
                        25G. W. Julian, Political
                                Recollections ( Chicago, 1884), 152; Fort Wayne
                                Daily Times, July 9, 1856; Fort Wayne Weekly
                                Times, July 17, September 18, 1856; Mark W. Summers, The Plundering Generation: Corruption and the Crisis of the
                                Union, 1849-1861 (New
                                York, 1984), 240. McPherson describes
                            Buchanan as a "colorless and safe" candidate, who
                            "carried no taint of responsibility for the mess in
                                    Kansas." On Frmont and Buchanan and
                            the 1856 campaign, see McPherson, Battle Cry of
                                Freedom, 155-62.
                    
                    
                    
                        "The Great Republican Reform Party, calling on their
                            candidate," 1856. Republican presidential nominee John Frmont and
                            his followers-depicted, from right to left, as an African American, a
                            Catholic priest, a supporter of Free Love, a socialist, a cigar-smoking
                            suffragette, and a temperance advocate-struck many voters as too
                            radical, and James Buchanan became the next president. Courtesy,
                            Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress
                     candidate over Frmont by a roughly two-to-one ratio, Buchanan won
                            Indiana by a narrower margin, his statewide
                    support diluted by third-party candidate Millard Fillmore on a Know Nothing
                    ticket. Hoosier Republicans also contended that thousands of fraudulent votes
                    had been cast statewide for Buchanan by migratory Irish railroad workers.
                    Encouraged by Frmont's victories in eleven of the fifteen northern states,
                    Republicans expected their party to gain strength by the next presidential
                        election.26
                
                    26George R. Mather, "Samuel S. Brenton Clergyman
                        and Congressman," Old Fort News 52 no. 1 (1989);
                        Nevins, Ordeal of the Union, 2:501-510; Julian, Political Recollections, 157; G. Stanley Hood,
                        "Political History of Allen County," in Beatty, ed., History of Fort Wayne and Allen County, 291. Buchanan won
                                Indiana with 118,672 votes to 94,376 votes for
                        Frmont and 22,836 for Fillmore. Thornbrough, Indiana in the
                            Civil War Era, 76.
                
                
                The lame duck session of the 34th Congress, from December 1856 through March
                    1857, might have been used to heal the nation's wounds, but instead,
                    President Pierce's continued support for proslavery factions in
                            Kansas brought greater partisanship. Furthermore,
                    by his inauguration in early March, Buchanan had put together an administration
                    that favored southern interests. Within days of the new president taking office,
                    the Supreme Court's Dred Scott decision polarized the
                    nation. Slaves were recognized as property no different from any other; free
                    African Americans had no rights recognized under the Constitution; and
                    slaveholders could now take slaves into all new territories. Northerners
                    justifiably feared that slavery would soon become a national institution. The
                    more immediate concern, however, was whether or not the Buchanan administration
                    would enforce Douglas's policy of popular sovereignty in Kansas
                    with an honest election or bring Kansas into the
                    Union as a slave state under the Lecompton constitution, widely regarded by
                    northerners as a fraud.27
                As Congress adjourned in March 1857, Indiana's Tenth District had added
                    worries. Their respected Republican congressman, Samuel Brenton, unexpectedly
                    died at the age of 47. By August, Case was deep into the political stream as the
                    Republican candidate in a special election called to decide Brenton's
                    former seat. His Democratic opponent was none other than his early law partner,
                    James L. Worden, now Allen County circuit court judge.
                Throughout his late summer and fall campaign, Case seemed to walk on thin ice. He
                    had won the Republican nomination at a special convention on the third vote with
                    a very slim majority. John Dawson, the editor of The Fort Wayne
                        Times, wrote that the choice was "not as we desired it."
                    Case's reputation as an abolitionist was a political disadvantage. Local
                    Democrats attempted to defuse the Kansas conflict by
                    emphasizing that free-soil settlers were a growing majority. They also appealed
                    to racial prejudices by affirming support of the Dred Scott
                    decision and opposing "the revolting doctrine that seeks to elevate the
                    Negro in his social and political relations, to an equality with the white
                        man."28
                Appearing with Worden before a large Fort Wayne
                    audience on August 20, Case focused on what he saw as the key issue-the role of
                        
                        27Don E. Fehrenbacher, The Dred Scott
                                Case: Its Significance in American Law and Politics
                                    (New York, 1978).
                        28Fort Wayne Times, August 20,
                            1857.
                    
                     the federal government regarding slavery.
                    In conformity with the 1856 Republican platform, he believed that the federal
                    government had power to restrict slavery to states where it already existed and
                    to prevent its further extension. He attacked the Dred Scott
                    decision by citing its inconsistencies with long years of judicial precedent.
                    The next week, The Times published a letter from Isaac
                    Jenkinson, a local Republican leader, entitled "Is Case an
                    Abolitionist?" Reviewing the candidate's position on slavery over the
                    past nine years, Jenkinson argued that Case's views were consistent with
                    those of the Democratic Party prior to the Kansas-Nebraska Act. Case had an
                    "unsullied moral character," Jenkinson wrote, a "commanding
                    ability," and "above all a deep hold...on the hearts and affections of
                    all classes of the people." When election returns came in, Case won by
                    eight hundred votes.29
                In the late fall and early winter of 1857, President Buchanan committed what
                    historian Kenneth Stampp has memorably labeled as "one of the most tragic
                    miscalculations any President has ever made." In November, Buchanan
                    reversed his policy that the full Kansas constitution
                    be presented to voters in an open and free election. Instead, he now supported
                    the decision of the recent proslavery convention in Lecompton to ask voters to
                    approve slavery with a simple vote for or against. Approval would bring
                    immediate statehood. If voters rejected slavery, those slaves already in the
                    territory would be allowed to remain. Moreover, the constitution could not be
                    revoked until 1864. In his annual message to Congress on December 8, Buchanan
                    blamed the Kansas crisis on free-state voters who boycotted
                    elections, and he stood by the legitimacy of the Lecompton convention. Only
                    admission of Kansas during the present term of Congress, he
                    warned, would dissipate the "dark and ominous clouds" threatening the
                        nation.30
                In the early weeks of the 35th Congress, freshman congressman Case witnessed the
                    split in the Democratic Party as Douglas sympathizers broke away from Buchanan
                    Democrats. Douglas Democrats now stood with other northerners in agreement that
                    the Lecompton constitution 
                        29Fort Wayne Times, August 20,
                            27, 1857. Jenkinson signed the letter "I.J." Case's
                            victory came with what was described as a light turnout by Democrats.
                                Fort Wayne Sentinel, October 17, 1857.
                        30Kenneth M. Stampp, America in 1857:
                                A Nation on the Brink (New
                                York, 1990), 281-82, 299-300, 325. Reports
                            of fraudulent elections of delegates to the Lecompton convention further
                            undermined the convention's legitimacy.
                    
                     was a fraud which denied a free election to
                            Kansas settlers, most of whom had expressed their
                    opposition to slavery. As a freshman and a "Black" Republican, Case
                    was kept in the background of the contentious congressional arena. Buchanan
                    supporters controlled committee assignments and access to the floor. Filibusters
                    extended for days at a time, blocking efforts of special committees to
                    investigate, among other issues, the Lecompton vote and administration attempts
                    to peddle influence. One all-night filibuster that extended from February 5 into
                    the early hours of the next day disintegrated into a brawl that made national
                        headlines.31
                In the early evening of March 10, 1858, Case gained the House floor for the first
                    time. Hours before, Speaker James Orr had denied the hearing of a minority
                    report of a select committee looking into charges that then-president-elect
                    Buchanan had intervened during the Supreme Court's deliberations on the Dred Scott case. The charges seemed to be supported by
                    comments that Buchanan had made regarding the case in his inaugural address-days
                    before the Court's decision was announced. Congressmen were angry, weary,
                    and impatient to adjourn. As Case gained the floor, he met objections not from
                    Democrats but from fellow Republicans. Galusha Grow of Pennsylvania moved that the House adjourn; Israel
                    Washburn of Maine expressed hope that Case's speech would
                    not run over a half hour; Edwin B. Morgan of New York argued a
                    point of order that there was no quorum. Thomas Florence, Democrat of
                            Pennsylvania, serving as chairman, overruled the
                    point of order. Morgan, neither willing to back down nor to take his seat,
                    insisted on his position and after lengthy give-and-take, a roll call determined
                    that a quorum was not present. The House adjourned for the day, and Case had to
                    wait until the next day for his maiden speech.32
                
                    31Case was appointed to the lackluster Committee on
                        Invalid Pensions. The Congressional Globe described the fight between
                        Galusha Grow of Pennsylvania and South Carolina Democrat Lawrence Keitt as a
                        "violent personal altercation" that led to "the greatest
                        possible confusion." Congressional Globe, 35th Cong., 1st Sess. 603
                        (1858); James T. DuBois and Gertrude S. Matthews, Galusha A.
                            Grow: Father of the Homestead Law (Boston, 1917), 172-78; "A Graphic
                        Descriptive Sketch of the Scrimmage In Congress," New York
                            Times, February 11, 1858.
                    32Congressional Globe, 35th Cong., 1st Sess. 1042,
                        1058-59 (1858). This incident is referred to in Case's reminiscences,
                        published in the Fort Wayne Gazette, February 27, 1873. On
                        Buchanan and charges of his intervention in the Dred Scott
                        decision, see Stampp, America in 1857, 90-93,
                        105-106.
                
                
                When he rose to speak on March 11, Case delivered a lengthy address on the
                            Kansas problem. Case explained that he felt
                    compelled to respond to Democratic Rep. James Hughes's endorsement of the
                    Lecompton constitution and its "startling statements and bitter
                    charges." His purpose was neither to restate positions already made nor to
                    discuss the institution of slavery, which he had long abhorred and condemned.
                    Instead, he intended to restrict his remarks to the "rights of
                    freemen" in Kansas. While "every sentence" of the
                    president's message had been "provocative" and
                    "acrimonious," Case argued that Buchanan's charge that free-state
                    settlers were rebels grated especially "harshly on American ears." He
                    reminded the president and House members that these settlers were their kinsmen;
                    many were "old-fashioned Democrats." Moreover, free-state settlers who
                    backed the Topeka constitution, like the American colonists who rose up against
                    the British, had the right to consent to "fundamental laws" that were
                    "to be imposed upon them." Buchanan and his predecessor Pierce were
                    responsible for "a catalogue of crime such as has disgraced no other
                    civilized land in the nineteenth century." Hoping that his words would
                    reach his constituents back home, Case warned that voters would remember
                    Buchanan's address and "pronounce a verdict upon its author similar to
                    that long since pronounced by posterity on those who libeled the patriots of
                    revolutionary times."33
                On March 23, the Senate approved the admission of Kansas to the Union
                    under the Lecompton constitution. The fight then raged in the House. On the
                    first of April, the House dealt the administration a blow when it passed the
                    compromise Crittenden-Montgomery Bill. Under this bill, the entire Lecompton
                    constitution would be submitted to voters in a supervised election. If defeated,
                    a new constitutional convention would be called. Gridlock resulted, however,
                    when the Senate refused to agree to the new provisions. The administration
                    fought to save face with a bill proposed by Indiana Rep. William H. English, an
                    anti-Lecompton Democrat. The so-called English bill offered Kansas
                    settlers immediate statehood provided they accept a smaller land grant to use
                    for building schools; a vote for the bill, however, would still be an indirect
                    vote for the Lecompton constitution. By the end of April, the English bill
                    cleared 
                        33Congressional Globe, 35th Cong., 1st Sess.
                            1079-84 (1858). Democrat James Hughes represented the Third District of
                                    Indiana. He was defeated in the next
                            election. Hughes's speech referenced by Case was given on February
                            2.
                    
                     the Senate, then passed in the House with a
                    vote of 112 to 103. Case, together with fellow Indiana Republicans Schuyler
                    Colfax, David Kilgore, John U. Pettit, and James Wilson voted with the minority
                    opposition. For the time being, the administration had won a bitter victory in
                    its misguided effort to solve the Kansas crisis.34
                By the time that the House recessed on June 11, members had been frequently
                    missing roll calls, evidently seeking respite from the weeks of contentious
                    debates and late night sessions. The sergeant at arms was assigned to arrest
                    absent members at the theatre, at dinner parties, or at their boarding houses.
                    On May 17, Case was one of dozens of members returned to the House floor and
                    interrogated by the speaker. Many of the congressmen, Case included, found the
                    situation amusing. Responding to the summons, he replied that he had had a
                    "very good" excuse. He had left almost an hour after debate had ended
                    to go home for his dinner. When he returned, the House doors were closed, and,
                    he added: "A man has to eat in 
                        Washington
                     as everywhere else." Upon the request of fellow Republican
                    Benjamin Leiter, Case was "discharged on the payment of fees."35
                When Case returned to Fort Wayne near the end of
                    June, the Kansas crisis was again the single burning issue.
                    Constituents welcomed him home with a brass band procession through the downtown
                    streets. Across the district, he recounted his story of the passage of the
                    Crittenden-Montgomery Bill-"when the people triumphed" in the
                    House-and he described the stillness in the chamber as the "unbought people
                    took their triumph in silence." He also related the contrasting "most
                    boisterous uproar in the House and galleries" when the administration
                    succeeded in passing the English bill. He left unsaid that Buchanan's
                    victory had again split the Democratic Party and thereby strengthened the
                    Republican voting block.36
                At the Tenth District Republican convention August 13 in Kendallville, delegates reaffirmed the
                    national party's 1856 principle that 
                        34All 92 Republicans voted for the
                            Crittenden-Montgomery Bill. Congressional Globe, 35th Cong., 1st Sess.
                            1437 (1858). The vote on the English amendment appears in the Journal of the House of Representatives, 35th Cong.,
                            1st Sess. 719. On details of the original Crittenden bill, the
                            Crittenden-Montgomery substitute bill, and the amended English bill, see
                            Stampp, America in 1857, 326-29.
                        35Congressional Globe, 35th Cong., 1st Sess. 2145
                            (1858).
                        36(Fort Wayne) Weekly
                            Republican, June 23, 1858.
                    
                     slavery was sectional and that
                    "Freedom [was] National." They repudiated the Dred Scott
                        decision, arguing that the court had no authority to sanction slavery
                    in government territories. They endorsed a campaign that clearly focused on the
                    Buchanan administration's attempts to force the Lecompton constitution on
                    the people of Kansas. The delegates "heartily"
                    approved the course of their "present worthy member" and, on the first
                    ballot, they chose Case as their party's nominee for the U.S. Congress,
                    even though Elkhart County delegates had alleged that
                            Allen
                            County was unfairly favored. Amidst "shouts of
                    applause," Case was declared the convention's unanimous choice.37
                For the next two months, Case canvassed the district attacking the Democratic
                    record on the Kansas crisis. No doubt his campaign was
                    strengthened when, at the end of August, Kansas voters
                    overwhelmingly voted down the English bill, adding further evidence of their
                    unwillingness to be brought in as a slave state. Case also demonstrated again
                    his effectiveness before large crowds. Local supporters credited him with
                    thoroughly demolishing "every inch of ground" old-line Democrats
                    claimed "to stand upon." In the middle of October, as election day
                    approached, Case spoke of the dream northerners shared of social mobility in the
                    western territories: "Let every friend of free labor, free speech and free
                    thought, vote for Charles Case for a seat in Congress." Like other radical
                    Republicans who personally supported abolition, Case, in his campaign speeches,
                    emphasized how free western territories would benefit whites. He pledged that he
                    was "in favor of the Territories of the United States being kept free for
                    the use of white men . . . . If you are in favor of free white men occupying the
                    Territories of the U. States, vote for Charles Case for Congress." In a
                    town that was widely known as a Democratic stronghold, Case avoided the
                    liability of race issues.38
                On October 20, Case won a majority of votes against the Democratic candidate in
                    five of the district's eight counties. Although Fort
                        Wayne had gone Democratic, his opponent, Reuben
                    Dawson, had defeated him by only 251 votes. Overall, Republicans had great
                    reason for celebration. Charles Case had been re-elected "by about double
                    the majority heretofore given to any nominee of [their] party," and 
                        37Weekly Republican, August 18,
                            1858.
                        38On August 2, under strictly controlled
                            elections, Kansas voters overwhelmingly
                            rejected the English bill, thereby blocking the spread of slavery and
                            postponing statehood. Stampp, America in 1857, 328-29;
                                Weekly Republican, September 1, October 13,
                            1858.
                    
                     Republicans had won seven out of
                            Indiana's eleven congressional districts.
                    Across the nation, Republican victories gave a majority of seats in the 36th
                    Congress to the young party.39
                When the lame duck session of the 35th Congress convened in early December,
                    sectional bitterness deepened over Kansas and the Dred Scott decision. Republicans, aided by disaffected
                    Democrats, relentlessly attacked the Buchanan administration's role in the
                    Lecompton vote and blocked efforts to acquire new slave territory in
                            Mexico and Cuba. Northern
                    congressmen found still more reasons for alarm. During the summer, two ships
                    carrying kidnapped Africans had reached southern ports. On August 29, 1858, the
                        Echo, a slave ship caught off the coast of
                            Cuba with a cargo of 318 Africans, was brought
                    into the Charleston, South
                        Carolina, harbor. More recently on November 28, the
                    Wanderer had carried 409 kidnapped Africans to Jekyll
                            Island, Georgia.
                With southern congressmen bickering over appropriations for the return of
                    kidnapped Africans to Liberia and for their future care,
                    Case spoke out against the hypocrisy of such a discussion when millions of
                    slaves and free blacks in the United States were
                    deliberately kept in ignorance. With deep cynicism, he argued that this education of free negroes ... seems to be at war with
                        the sentiment of the age-that sentiment sometimes embodied in State
                        constitutions where they are excluded from the soil, and from all appeal to
                        the courts, whereby the free negro is completely animalized and outlawed, so
                        that if the policy were to be universally adopted, he would find no spot
                        this side of Heaven on which to rest his foot. As Congress grew
                    "eloquent on 'the horrors of the middle passage,"' Case
                    continued, "let us blush that almost beneath the flag that floats from this
                    Capitol we have, not a middle passage, but a passage that tells its tale of
                    suffering in scarred hands and much-scarred backs." Case went on to point
                    out that "such stories of misery are current advertisements in newspapers
                    of our Federal capital." Attacking the racist laws of 
                        39Weekly Republican, October 20,
                            27, 1858. In addition to Case, David Kilgore, James Wilson, Schuyler
                            Colfax, and John U. Pettit were re-elected; William M. Dunn and Albert
                            G. Porter were elected to a first term.
                    
                     the day, Case argued that "it is in
                    many instances criminal for Africans to learn, and for white men to teach them.
                    If these home laws are right, why should we have a different policy
                        abroad?"40
                In February, as the House debated the admission of Oregon
                    to statehood, Case took what appeared to be an inconsistent position. Like many
                    fellow Republicans, he condemned provisions in the territorial constitution
                    which excluded African Americans from moving into the state and denied their
                    rights to criminal justice. Nevertheless, he believed that admission of
                            Oregon under such a constitution was preferable to
                    citizens remaining subject to the corrupt proslavery territorial legislature.
                    Because the denial of legal rights to African Americans was a "clear
                    violation of the letter and spirit of the Federal Constitution," Case
                    argued, the territorial constitution would become meaningless. When
                            Oregon statehood was put to the vote, Case sided
                    with a small majority, separating from antislavery leaders Giddings, Lovejoy,
                    and Grow.41 In the closing weeks of the 35th Congress, Case
                    might have found some solace in being part of a strengthened opposition party.
                    With fellow Republicans, he had called attention to the administration's
                    "notoriously lax" enforcement of international slave trade laws. In
                    defending the rights of African Americans to education and legal justice, he had
                    appealed to the nation's conscience. He could look forward to being part of
                    the majority party in the next Congress. More than ever, however, Case and his
                    fellow Republicans looked ahead to a Republican presidential victory in 1860 as
                    the only means to curb slavery's expansion and bring about national
                    reconciliation. Voters in the swing states of Pennsylvania,
                            New
                            Jersey, Indiana, and
                            Illinois would likely decide the nation's
                    fate. Before leaving 
                        Washington
                    , Case, along with sixty-seven other Republicans, endorsed a book to
                    be distributed throughout these crucial states (and the South) with the hope of
                    educating voters on the crippling effects of slavery.42
                When the new Congress convened on December 6, 1859, a book titled The Impending Crisis of the South: How to Meet It, written by
                    southerner Hinton R. Helper, became political fodder for southern Democrats.
                        
                        40Congressional Globe, 35th Cong., 2d Sess. 615
                            (1859). Foner's discussion of Republican racial ideology is helpful
                            for understanding Case's political strategy. See Foner, Free Soil, Free Labor; Free Men, 261-300.
                        41Congressional Globe, 35th Cong., 2d Sess. 981,
                            1011 (1859). The vote on Oregon
                            statehood was 114 in favor and 103 opposed.
                        42Dawson's Daily Times,
                            December 8, 9, 10, 1859.
                    
                     They charged John Sherman, a moderate Ohio
                    Republican and the popular choice for House speaker, with treason for having
                    endorsed it. Coming just weeks after the execution of John Brown for his raid on
                    the military arsenal at Harper's Ferry, southerners were in no mood to
                    yield ground. For two months, they blocked Sherman's election. Finally, on
                    February 1, after forty-four votes, House members chose New Jersey Rep. William
                    Pennington as speaker. Although elected as a Republican, Pennington won some
                    southern supporters for his pledge to not interfere with slavery in the
                        territories.43
                After this attempt to organize, the House once again fell into disorder. Members
                    claimed that they were sickened by the shouting and jeering from spectators in
                    the crowded galleries. Southerners accused Republicans of treason, fanaticism,
                    and conspiracy; they threatened to withdraw from the Union. Republicans, with
                    cause, felt personally endangered. They insisted on their intent not to
                    interfere with slavery where it already existed. At the same time, they led
                    initiatives to limit the broad reach of Buchanan's powers. Over vehement
                    opposition, the House approved resolutions introduced by John Covode,
                    abolitionist Republican from Pennsylvania, to form a
                    committee to investigate the president's actions during the previous
                        Congress.44
                Prospects for Kansas statehood looked good on April 12, when the
                    House passed a bill for admission under the recent Wyandotte constitution. The
                    Committee on Territories, led by Rep. Grow, set as their next goal organizing
                    governments for new territories to be carved out of the immense areas of
                            New
                            Mexico, Utah, and
                            Nebraska. On May 12, Grow introduced a bill to
                    organize Idaho-which he considered the most important
                    territory-"to make that a test of the sense of the House."45
                
                    43David Brown, Southern Outcast: Hinton
                            Rowan Helper and The Impending Crisis of the South
                                (Baton Rouge,
                                La., 2006).
                    44On April 5, 1860, southern Congressmen hurled
                        insults and clicked their pistols at Illinois Rep. Owen Lovejoy while he
                        delivered an impassioned speech. Physical violence was narrowly avoided.
                        Edward Magdol, Owen Lovejoy: Abolitionist in Congress
                                (New Brunswick,
                                N.J., 1967), 234. The Covode Committee spent
                        the spring and summer of 1860 investigating Buchanan and submitted its
                        report, detailing the corruption of the administration, on June 16. See
                        "President Buchanan and the Report of the Covode Committee," New York Times, June 20, 1860.
                    45Congressional Globe, 36th Cong., 1st Sess. 2080
                        (1860). The Wyandotte constitution, based on the Kansas constitutional convention of July 1859,
                        prohibited slavery in the state. See the entry for Wyandotte Constitution in
                        the online "Kansapedia" at http://www.kshs.org/kansapedia/.
                
                
                Now serving on the Committee on Territories, Case took the floor to add his
                    support for formal government organization for the more than 20,000 people
                    living in the vast Idaho territory. Outside of the jurisdiction of
                    the federal government, they were more than six hundred miles from the nearest
                    territorial capital in Kansas. Case countered Democratic
                    objections to the bill's provision for popular sovereignty, a position that
                    was now highly controversial. As he had reminded Indiana voters
                    during his recent campaign, the bill repeated "the doctrine of the
                    Democratic party of the North no longer ago than 1854." Republicans were
                    nevertheless unable to generate sufficient momentum to move forward against
                    southern accusations that they were deliberately provoking agitation over
                    slavery. As a result, the bill to organize Idaho was formally
                    tabled by a vote of 91 to 82.46
                During the third week in June, as Case was about to leave 
                        Washington
                    , the Tenth District Republican convention met in
                            Kendallville to choose its fall nominee for
                    U.S. Representative. Through a combination of circumstances, party leaders
                    selected William Mitchell, a moderate and obscure nominee from
                            Noble
                            County, to replace Case. Allen County Republicans
                    publicly stated that it was time to give northern counties the choice of a
                    candidate. Mirroring the national party's support for Abraham Lincoln, the
                    moderate candidate for president, Indiana Republicans likely considered Case a
                    political liability. The party leadership, however, was not content to have Case
                    retire from public service. Just days after the Kendallville convention, they named him pro
                    tem judge of the Court of Common Pleas for northern Indiana.47
                Although Case was to return for the lame duck session of Congress in December,
                    delegates formally acknowledged his retirement with 
                        46Case drew heavily from speeches of Indiana
                            Democrat William H. English. Congressional Globe, 36th Cong., 1st Sess.
                            2082, 2085 (1860).
                        47Foner discusses the Republican Party's
                            concern to attract moderate voters in the 1860 election. See Foner, Free Soil, Free Labor, Free Men, 130-34. Thornbrough
                            also emphasizes the "expediency" of Indiana Republicans who
                            "did not intend that victory should elude them because of any taint
                            of radicalism or abolitionism"-a resolve that applied to Lincoln as
                            well, probably, as to Case. Thornbrough, Indiana in the
                                Civil War Era, 85-87. Case may also have had family obligations
                            which made his absence from Fort
                                Wayne difficult. By the summer of 1860,
                            Case and his wife Jane Tappan Case had six children. One of their sons,
                            six-year-old Charles Bosworth Case, may have been seriously ill, for he
                            died August 20. Fort Wayne & Allen County, Indiana, Area Obituary
                            Index 1841-1899, Allen County Public Library Genealogy Databases; Fort Wayne Daily Times, June 23, 1860.
                    
                     solemn praise: "Resolved, That we look
                    with pride upon our able, eloquent and efficient Representative in Congress from
                    this District, the Hon. Charles Case; that we fully approve his official course,
                    and that personally and politically he will ever bear with him our respect and
                    admiration." The following week, the Daily Times
                    published a letter from "A Citizen" who wrote: It is really gratifying in these days of political
                        degeneracy and official dereliction to be permitted to join with the
                        multitude in demonstrations of respect to a faithful public servant and an
                        able representative of the rights and interests of a free
                        people in the most dignified deliberative body in the world, and say of him
                        that he has well earned the distinguished applaud, "Well done good and
                        faithful servant."48
                Back in Fort Wayne, Case joined Allen County
                    Republicans on the campaign trail. To the Republicans' advantage, Lincoln
                    would face two Democrats on the fall ballot, northern favorite Sen. Stephen A.
                    Douglas, and Vice President John C. Breckinridge of Kentucky. In addition, the Constitutional Union Party
                    had nominated John Bell, a conservative former senator from Tennessee who remained neutral on slavery. Republicans
                    were running against the Buchanan administration's record, targeting
                    working class Democrats, and promising immigrant and native-born voters their
                    support for homesteading laws.49
                Before a large audience packed into Colerick's Hall in July, Case shared
                    vivid details of the Buchanan administration's corruption, which, he warned
                    his listeners, would lead the country to certain ruin. Case promised that the
                    Republicans regarded working men as "citizens, co-equal in rights,
                    privileges and power with any of the millionaires of the country." He also
                    lamented that Democratic Senators had recently defeated a bill to set apart
                    western lands for homesteading. Case's evening speech concluded with a
                    procession to his home led by the local 
                        48Fort Wayne Weekly Times, June
                            27, 1860; Fort Wayne Daily Times, June 23, July 7,
                            1860.
                        49In contrast to its 1856 platform, the Republican
                            Party in 1860 projected a more moderate position against slavery. The
                            platform emphasized a protective tariff, a homestead act, and the
                            absolute right of each state "to order and control its own domestic
                            institutions." Potter, Lincoln and His Party in the
                                Secession Crisis, 30-31; McPherson, Battle Cry of
                                Freedom, 189-93.
                    
                     Lincoln Wide Awakes, who had formed
                    themselves into a marching brass band.50
                During the next few months, Case and fellow Republicans courted German American
                    voters with extravagantly staged events that included bonfires, processions of
                    Wide Awakes with flaming torches, and German bands. On at least three occasions,
                    enthusiastic campaigners raised poles to symbolize "the attachment of
                    hundreds to principles which heretofore they refused to endorse." The most
                    impressive pole, 204 feet 7 inches tall, was hoisted by local German Republicans
                    in front of Turner Hall on August 31. In addition to these festivities,
                    Republicans twice drew crowds of a thousand people, mostly German, to
                    Colerick's Hall to hear the acclaimed hero of the 1848 German revolution,
                    Carl Schurz of Wisconsin. A popular and zealous Lincoln
                    campaigner, Schurz was on his sweep through German communities across
                            Indiana. Holding his audiences' attention for
                    a reported two hours, he plucked "to pieces Senator Douglas's new
                    sophistries - or rather his old sophistries revived and readjusted to his
                    requirements as a presidential candidate facing both ways, North and
                        South."51
                Case's campaigning throughout the summer and fall undoubtedly contributed to
                    the historic Republican victories of 1860. In the state elections in
                    mid-October, Allen County gave the Democratic candidates a
                    small four-hundred-vote majority, a marked decline from earlier elections.
                    Republican candidate Mitchell won a solid victory throughout the Tenth District.
                    Republicans took seven of the ten congressional seats for Indiana and elected their candidate for governor,
                    Henry S. Lane. Exuberant over their "political revolution,"
                            Fort Wayne citizens turned 
                        50Fort Wayne Daily Times, July
                            18, 1860. The Wide Awakes were primarily young, working-class men, who
                            formed military-style marching groups in towns and cities across the
                            North in support of Lincoln's candidacy. Jon Grinspan,
                            "'Young Men for War': The Wide Awakes and Lincoln's
                            1860 Presidential Campaign," Journal of American
                                History 96 (September 2009), 357-78.
                        51Schurz's speeches in Fort
                                    Wayne on August 10 and September 28
                            predictably created hostility in the Democratic camp. His speech on
                            August 10 was interrupted by someone hurling a large cabbage through a
                            window, forcibly striking Peter Bailey, a local Republican leader, on
                            the back of the neck. Distorting the incident, the Democratic Sentinel
                            alleged that Schurz called fellow countrymen "cabbage heads."
                            On August 29, the German Republican Club elected officers in Turner
                            Hall: C. F. G. Meyer, president; L. E. Grove, vice president; G. J.
                            Neubert, secretary; and Peter Kline, treasurer. Neubert was editor of
                            the Indiana Staatszeitung. Fort Wayne
                                Daily Times, July 20, August 11, 30, September 1, 4, 5, 26, 29,
                            1860; Carl Schurz, The Reminiscences of Carl Schurz,
                            vol. 2, 1852-1863 (New York, 1913), 163;
                            Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 93-94;
                            Beatty, "The Douglas' Has Come!" 4, 10.
                    
                     out for a torchlight procession. On the eve
                    of the presidential election, November 5, Republicans conducted a similar parade
                    to the courthouse. Reflecting his continued popularity, Case gave the last
                    speech of the campaign.52
                On the following morning, The Daily News reported that
                    "Abraham Lincoln is elected President of the United States to take the oath
                    of Office on 4th March 1861." While Allen County voters
                    had supported Douglas over Lincoln by a roughly three-to-two margin, Lincoln had
                    won the state. "Republicans Be Glad!" editor Dawson proclaimed. He
                    cautiously added, "But let Wisdom and Urbanity be the governing principle
                    in your gladness." The long Democratic hold over the White House and
                    Congress had been broken. By the time Case returned for the lame duck session of
                    Congress in early December, however, the country was rapidly descending into
                        disunion.53
                In the interim between Lincoln's election and the reconvening of Congress on
                    December 4, seven states in the Deep South began formal procedures to secede
                    from the Union. Longtime threats, considered ploys to strengthen the power of
                    slave states, became a reality. On the opening day of the House, Isaac Morris,
                    an anti-Lecompton Democrat from Illinois,
                    immediately called for a unanimous pledge of loyalty to the Union, insisting
                    that Lincoln's election did not justify secession. Virginia Democrat
                    Alexander R. Boteler moved to create a special committee of one representative
                    from each state to consider President Buchanan's recent message relating to
                    the nation's crisis. Soon one representative after another offered
                    resolutions hoping to slow the secession movement, promote negotiations, and
                    somehow conciliate the South.54
                Case broke away from his more moderate colleagues to pursue an unpopular stand
                    against compromise. In a lengthy letter dated December 7 to the Daily Times, Case defended his vote against the formation of the
                    so-called Committee of 33 that the majority of House members had supported. He
                    was convinced that decisions to secede were irrevocable, even if secession meant
                    "self ruin" and the end of slavery. 
                        52Fort Wayne Daily Times, July
                            20, August 11, September 3, 14, October 1, 10, 12, November 1, 6,
                            1860.
                        53Fort Wayne Daily News,
                            November 7, 1860; G. Stanley Hood, "Political History of Allen
                            County," in Beatty, ed., History of Fort Wayne and
                                Allen County, 292.
                        54Potter, Lincoln and His Party in
                                the Secession Crisis, 46, 75; Congressional Globe, 36th Cong.,
                            2d Sess. 6 (1860).
                    
                     Buchanan, a "weak and vacillating
                    man," would be unable to prevent civil war. Furthermore, Case believed that
                    the Committee of 33 would call for a constitutional amendment strengthening
                    slavery that would provoke further conflict: To sustain
                        me now, comes the conviction, that the great political organization with
                        which I act has done nothing to warrant present distrust, or to produce
                        prevailing financial distress .... I can therefore only see my way clear by
                        adhering to the Union - insisting that no essential principle on which it is
                        based shall be compromised away, and that the Federal Constitution and laws
                        shall be respected and observed. Case was the only Indiana
                    Republican to oppose the bill.55
                Through December, Republicans took generally conciliatory positions as southern
                    representatives resigned from committee assignments and confirmed their
                    intentions to follow the will of their states' secession conventions. On
                    December 18, bowing to mounting pressure, Sen. John J. Crittenden of
                            Kentucky introduced a series of Constitutional
                    amendments that stunned Republicans. The six measures included proposals to
                    extend slavery into territories south of the 36-degree 30-minute line and to
                    guarantee that Congress would never interfere with slavery where it currently
                    existed. Two days later, South Carolina became the
                    first state to formally separate from the Union; others soon followed in its
                    wake. By the middle of January 1861, the House Committee of 33, under Ohio
                    Republican Chairman Thomas Corwin, still hoping for some reconciliation,
                    proposed resolutions contained in the Crittenden Amendments along with a
                    resolution to admit New Mexico as a slave state.
                    Ironically, at the end of the month, the House announced that President Buchanan
                    had approved the bill for admission of Kansas to statehood.
                    The conclusion of a battle that had long divided the country now was received
                    "with slight applause on the floor and in the galleries."56
                
                    55The December 4 vote to establish the Committee of 33
                        was 145 in favor and 38 opposed. Sixteen of the twenty-two Congressmen
                        present from southern states abstained from voting. Congressional Globe,
                        36th Cong., 2d Sess. 6 (1860); Potter, Lincoln and His Party in
                            the Secession Crisis, 90; Fort Wayne Daily Times,
                        December 29, 1860. Dawson delayed printing Case's letter, perhaps
                        because of the editor's opposition to Case's position.
                    56Congressional Globe, 36th Cong., 2d Sess. 646
                        (1860).
                
                
                During these weeks of crisis, Republicans seemed to lack a common policy. They
                    were leaderless and increasingly open to appeasing southern extremists; some
                    held on to the hope that southern Union supporters would block further secession
                    and perhaps bring the "fire eaters" back. Congressmen were continually
                    flooded with petitions in support of the Crittenden Amendments. At the end of
                    January, the Virginia legislature invited delegates from each
                    of the states to meet in 
                        Washington
                     to negotiate a plan to save the Union. Until the middle of
                    December, President-elect Lincoln remained mostly silent, his policies largely
                    enigmatic. As David Potter argues, however, when the very survival of the nation
                    was at stake, Lincoln asserted his opposition to compromise and thus shaped
                    Republican policy. By mid-January, as they considered the report from the
                    Committee of 33, House Republicans followed Lincoln's guidance and began a
                    steady effort to reaffirm their principles against the expansion of slavery57
                Case helped build the "backbone" that encouraged more moderate
                    Republicans to resist compromise. In a February 8 speech, he laid out a rebuttal
                    of "every inch of ground" used as justification for secession. Case
                    reminded House members that twelve years earlier, in 1848, Whigs, Democrats, and
                    Free Soil men had shared the current Republican policy prohibiting slavery in
                    territories. "Who, for that cause, then threatened to destroy the
                    Government? Who then thought it a sufficient reason for interfering with the
                    Union, that parties in the North were committed to the policy of making all the
                    Territories free?" he asked. Case reviewed selections from the writings of
                    Thomas Jefferson and Henry Clay that expressed the "doctrine of the
                    'irrepressible conflict"' in words stronger than any
                    "employed by any member of the Republican party." In point after
                    point, he emphasized that current arguments justifying secession were nothing
                    new. The real cause of southern secession was the election of a president
                    "opposed to the extension of chattel slavery," as Case declared:
                        These alleged causes of disunion are a sham, a mere
                        pretense; while the real object of those who would destroy the Government is
                        to retain power by dissolving in advance and forever 
                            57Potter, Lincoln and His Party
                                    in the Secession Crisis, ix, 46, 132-33, 177. On December
                                10 and December 13, Lincoln wrote to William Kellogg and Elihu B.
                                Washburne, both of Illinois, urging them to
                                avoid any compromise over the extension of slavery. Hans L.
                                Trefousse, The Radical Republicans: Lincoln's
                                    Vanguard for Racial Justice (Baton
                                        Rouge, La., 1968), 141-42,167; Magdol, Owen Lovejoy, 270.
                        
                         ever all connection with an
                        Administration whose policy will be adverse to their own. Expressing
                    no intention of passing judgment on slaveholders, Case insisted that the
                    institution of slavery "has already as much strength in this Confederacy as
                    I am willing to accord to it. To add to it one iota, may be giving it all the
                    power wanting, if indeed any be wanting, to enable it to completely destroy the
                    Government." In conclusion, he emphasized his commitment to preserving the
                    Constitution: "Believing that at this time we cannot improve the handiwork
                    of the fathers, mine shall be the last hand that shall undertake to erase or add
                    a single word."58
                During these same weeks, Case twice unsuccessfully attempted to introduce a bill
                    to provide aid to destitute settlers in Kansas. He was
                    serving on a special committee under Isaac Morris of Illinois to investigate fraud in the Department of the
                    Interior. In one of many corrupt practices under the Buchanan administration, $3
                    million in negotiable bonds kept in the Indian trust fund had been used in a
                    scheme to pay railroad contractors. On behalf of the committee, on February 12
                    Case submitted to the House a detailed report which was the result of lengthy
                    interviews, close investigations, and "extraordinary labors."59
                In the last days of the 36th Congress, the Committee of 33 called for a vote on a
                    series of resolutions designed to save the Union. Seven resolutions presented on
                    February 27 ranged from the repeal of personal liberty laws and the denial of
                    "any authority outside the slave States to interfere with slavery," to
                    measures to grant southerners additional protection of slavery under the
                    Constitution and to punish "attempts at lawless invasion of any
                    State." All passed with a vote of 136 to 53. Not surprisingly, Case was the
                    single Indiana Republican voting with the minority. The following day, a
                    separate vote was taken on the Constitutional amendment to prohibit Congress
                    from interfering with slavery where it already existed (Article XIII, the
                    so-called Corwin Amendment). Case, again voting with the minority in opposition,
                    was now joined by two other Indiana Republicans, John U. Pettit and James 
                        58Appendix to the Congressional Globe, 36th Cong.,
                            2d Sess. 185-89 (1861).
                        59Summers, The Plundering
                                Generation, 246; Congressional Globe, 36th Cong., 2d Sess. 874
                            (1861).
                    
                     Wilson. In the closing hours on March 1,
                    radical Republicans experienced some turnaround in their favor when a bill for
                    the admission of New Mexico was tabled. They helped
                    to defeat a contentious provision to transfer jurisdiction of fugitive slaves
                    back to the state from which they had escaped. In addition, they helped vote
                    down a motion to receive the propositions of the recent peace conference.60
                As the session drew to a close, northern representatives expressed concern over
                    defense of the forts in Charleston harbor and other government property, as well as the
                    need to raise militias to defend the Union. The House passed bills to organize
                    the new Nevada and Dakota territories. Casting a dark
                    shadow over all government business was the real prospect of civil war. As
                    Lincoln arrived in 
                        Washington
                     to prepare for his March 4 inauguration, the nation's survival
                    was uncertain.61
                For Charles Case, a new era was beginning as well. During the past decade,
                    including years of service in two of the nation's most historic Congresses,
                    he had defended the principles that he believed lay at the foundation of the
                    country. Standing with a minority against compromise as seven states from the
                    Deep South left the Union, he had incurred the wrath of many of his
                    contemporaries in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , and in Indiana. The editor of the Fort Wayne Daily Times wrote: "Indeed out here none but
                    abolitionists or ignorant men were against raising the Committee nor against
                    compromise. To be against compromise, liberal and general, is to be swept away
                    before public indignation." When Case returned home, there were no brass
                    bands or street processions. Fort
                    Wayne's mood was justifiably somber and
                        apprehensive.62
                By the summer of 1861, the nation faced another revolution, this time a military
                    rebellion against the Union by the Confederate States of America. By September,
                    Case and other local leaders had organized the 44th Indiana Volunteer Infantry.
                    As the regiment's adjutant general, he boarded a train for Camp Morton in
                            Indianapolis. In early 1862, the regiment
                        
                        60On the first vote, Article XIII failed to
                            receive the required support of two-thirds of the members present.
                            Following appeals for another vote, "great confusion in the
                            hall," and disputes on whether the required quorum was present, the
                            Corwin Amendment was again brought before the House. It passed by a vote
                            of 133 in favor, 65 opposed. Congressional Globe, 36th Cong., 2d Sess.
                            1263-1338 (1861); Fort Wayne Daily Times, March 1, 6,
                            1861.
                        61Lincoln made an unexpected appearance in the
                            House on February 25: "The President elect appearing in the House,
                            much confusion occurred in consequence of members crowding about him for
                            introductions." Congressional Globe, 36th Cong., 2d Sess. 1198
                            (1861).
                        62Fort Wayne Daily Times, March
                            1, 1861.
                    
                     fought in Tennessee at the
                    capture of Fort Donelson and in the Battle of Shiloh. In late 1864, now the
                    first colonel of the 129th Volunteer Regiment, Case participated in
                    Sherman's march through Georgia. He was mustered out with his
                    health broken by exposure and exhaustion. After the war he moved to
                            New Orleans to regain his health and again to
                    practice law. In his final years, he returned to 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , once again pursuing the profession that had been a lifelong
                        passion.63
                As memory of the Civil War faded, occasional articles in Fort
                        Wayne newspapers recalled Charles Case as "One
                    of the Original Abolitionists," "One of Our Citizens whom Fort Wayne
                    Delights to Honor," and "An Early Hoosier Statesman [who] Warred on
                    Slave Owners." Perhaps the most appropriate tribute to Case appeared in the
                        Fort Wayne Gazette in February 1873. A Congressional aide
                    during the years of crises leading up to the war remembered Case as one of the
                    men "who composed the original antislavery party," an abolitionist
                    "who always bitterly opposed slavery, but equally opposed any violation of
                    the law." Antislavery men "were few in number, but they were
                    dreadfully hard workers, and hung on to their principles and objects with
                    bulldog like tenacity, and they won in the end, after years of
                        persecution."64
                Charles Case's political career reminds us today of the underlying causes of
                    the tragic war fought 150 years ago. In his efforts to establish a moral compass
                    in his district, his state, and his nation, he stood as one of the leaders of a
                    debate over race and social justice that Fort Wayne
                    and the nation at large chose to ignore in the decades after the war.
                    Case's record deepens our appreciation of the long, difficult paths that
                    lead toward fulfillment of the promises of our free democracy.
                
                    63Robert Willey, The Iron 44th: The Story
                            of Company H of the 44th Indiana Volunteer Infantry as Told by the Men
                            of This Company in Letters Sent Home and to the Local Newspaper
                        (1980; Bloomington,
                                Ind., 2011), 6; John H. Rerick, The 44th Indiana Volunteer Infantry, History of Its Services in the War
                            of the Rebellion (LaGrange,
                                Ind., 1880), 261; Fort Wayne
                            Daily Gazette, June 3, 29, 1864, July 2, 1883; Fort
                            Wayne Journal-Gazette, September 29, 1912.
                    64Fort Wayne Gazette, February 27,
                        1873; Fort Wayne News-Sentinel, July 14, 1926.
                
            
            
            
                Making Herman B Wells Moral Development and Emotional Trauma in a
                            Boone County Boyhood
                JAMES H. CAPSHEW
                My first encounter with Herman Wells, in April 1977, was a job interview for the
                    position of houseman at the chancellor's residence. I was working my way
                    through college at Indiana University and was responding to a notice posted at
                    the student financial aid office. The receptionist in Owen Hall ushered me into
                    the expansive, high-ceilinged room, painted a pale blue, where the
                    septuagenarian chancellor sat working at a roomy desk. Tall bookcases lined
                    opposite walls; old paintings hung on the wall between. Every available surface
                    was cluttered with objets d'art and gewgaws. A bank of
                    open windows let in the springtime air, faintly perfumed with blossoming trees
                    and flowers.
                I strode to greet him, my hand outstretched. Noticing my entrance, Wells
                    struggled to rise from his chair, but he could not quite make it. With a rueful
                    smile, he grabbed my proffered hand and pulled firmly, slowing easing his bulk
                    upright. As he stood before me, a few inches shorter than my six feet, I noticed
                    his large head, with wavy white hair and a small mustache, bright blue eyes
                    beneath bushy eyebrows, an 
                        James H. Capshew is an associate professor in the Department of
                            History and Philosophy of Science at Indiana University, Bloomington. He
                            thanks IU colleagues R. Thomas Lenz of the Kelley School of Business for
                            valuable discussions on leadership development, Kelly A. Kish of the
                            President's Office for her thoughtful critique of an earlier draft,
                            and Eric T. Sandweiss for his indispensible guidance in shaping the
                            approach. His book, Herman B Wells: The Promise of the
                                American University, is forthcoming from Indiana University
                            Press.
                    
                     almost perfectly round, pregnant belly, and
                    tailor-made clothes. Fixing me with a relaxed and radiant smile, he introduced
                    himself and directed me to sit in the unusual three-cornered chair beside his
                    desk - a Colonial roundabout - providing me with a brief account of its
                    provenance.
                Wells proceeded to tell me about the history of the houseman tradition, which
                    dated to the beginning of his IU presidency in 1937, and explained the duties of
                    the position. Prompted by his questions, I told him about my studies in
                    psychology, my employment history, and growing up in Bloomington. He was pleased to know that my
                    father, a public accountant, had obtained his business education at IU in the
                    1950s. As the interview came to a close, Wells remarked, with a twinkle in his
                    eye, that I would have to pass muster with the house staff, too, in order to
                    gain employment. When I stood up to take my leave, I extended my hand to the
                    seated chancellor. Wells once again grasped it firmly to lever himself out of
                    the chair, all the while telling me how pleased he was to meet me. He never
                    spoke about this small gesture of mutual aid, and it took me a long time to
                    realize that, with this ritual exchange, he was inviting me into the Wells
                    circle. It was also my introduction to what I would later call his total lack of
                    self-consciousness.
                That radical un-self-consciousness was part and parcel of Wells's unselfish
                    approach to life and provided the foundation for his extraordinary career of
                    public service. His life spanned nearly the entire twentieth century, from his
                    birth in 1902 to his death in 2000, and he was associated with Indiana
                    University for nearly eighty years, beginning with his first student days in
                    1921. Joining the faculty in 1930, he was selected as president in 1937,
                    spending decade after decade in faithful, innovative leadership. During his
                    twenty-five years as university executive, he brought IU from its position as a
                    decent, if provincial, institution to the front ranks of American research
                    universities. He oversaw a tremendous expansion of enrollment, recruited a
                    faculty of talent and enthusiasm, and transformed the physical plant into a
                    campus of surpassing beauty and cultural achievement. His accomplishments cannot
                    be easily summarized because he lent a hand to everyone concerned about the
                    university and its academic community, and everything from program development
                    and administrative operations to advocating the interests of IU on the local,
                    state, national, and global levels. He gave unstinting support to Alfred C.
                    Kinsey's right to conduct his research without institutional interference;
                    vigorously encouraged Wilfred C. Bain's efforts to include opera in his
                    quest to improve the School of Music; and found innovative ways to fund the
                    Russian and Eastern European Institute, 
                    under Robert F Byrnes, as the first among a host of international area studies
                    programs. In 1962, when Wells was promoted to the new post of university
                    chancellor, he served as IU's educational ambassador, long-range planner,
                    and chief fundraiser. His contributions to the welfare of the university were
                    widely known, and he became the acknowledged paterfamilias of the great IU clan.
                    A legend in his own lifetime, his elevation to iconic status caused Wells some
                    private consternation.
                I graduated in 1979 with my baccalaureate degree and finished my work as a Wells
                    houseman. The following year, Wells presented me with an inscribed copy of his
                    new autobiography, Being Lucky. I remember reading through it
                    with enthusiasm, and marveled at the scope and range of his extraordinary
                    career. I especially enjoyed learning about his parents and his undergraduate
                    days at IU. But I was disappointed. Somehow the narrative did not capture the
                    personality of the man that I had come to know - his remarkable empathy and
                    interpersonal skills, his lack of ego, his sly sense of humor. Being Lucky was a recounting, with a few vivid descriptions, of a life
                    of public service by a dignified and humble individual.1
                By many accounts, Wells was a great man, with a great career that transformed one
                    of America's heartland universities into a player in national and global
                    scholarship and service. In seeking to understand such individuals, we often
                    look for great beginnings, or at least for some clue as to what lies in wait for
                    fuller expression. Embarking on my biography of Wells in 1999, I sought to
                    explore how and why an individual comes to embody an institution. My research
                    led naturally into questions relating to his childhood, family environment, and
                    psychosocial development into adulthood. For sources of information and clues to
                    his personal evolution, I drew on my association with Wells as an employee and a
                    member of his elective family, on interviews and consultations with other people
                    who knew and observed Wells, and on the documentary record, which is sparse for
                    his early years. Complicating my interpretive pursuit was Wells's nearly
                    total silence, either orally or in writing, regarding his personal feelings,
                    interpersonal relationships, and emotional trials. Here was a truly public man
                    who maintained a sphinx-like silence about his private life.2
                
                    1Herman B Wells, Being Lucky:
                            Reminiscences and Reflections (Bloomington, Ind., 1980).
                    2For a useful discussion of "greatness" in
                        historical context, see John C. Burnham, "Where Has Greatness
                        Gone?" Midwest Quarterly 27 (1985-86), 129-48.
                
                
                One of the few sources available was Being Lucky, which
                    presented a positive version of his early life in accordance with his persona as
                    a public servant. Based upon my personal acquaintance with Wells and my study of
                    individual psychology, I attempted to penetrate beyond the optimistic scrim of
                    his autobiography. I followed my hunches, combined them with information from
                    other sources, and pieced together significant episodes that shed light on the
                    development of this remarkable leader. I chose not to include such materials in
                    my biography, Herman B Wells: The Promise of the American
                        University, mainly because of the dearth of verifiable sources.3
                What follows is an interpretation of Wells's early life, as he matured from
                    a pre-teen to a young adult. In contrast to the benign and mostly sunny portrait
                    in Being Lucky, Wells faced a number of important challenges
                    to his emerging identity and sense of self, which threw him back on his own
                    resources, time and again. During and after these private trials, Wells made
                    some crucial choices that had significant later consequences for his personal
                    development, both as an individual and in relation to others.
                Herman learned early on to help with the household chores, which were
                    considerable living on ten acres in rural Jamestown,
                            Indiana. As an only child, he was expected to
                    assist his mother Bernice, a housewife, with the shopping and gardening. His
                    father Granville worked as a banker; his masculine demeanor was reserved and
                    undemonstrative.
                In 1914, shortly after the Indianapolis Daily Times penetrated
                    the Jamestown-area market, Herman wanted to buy a newspaper route. Realizing
                    that it might conflict with the schedule for the Jamestown Boys Band, for which
                    Herman played alto horn, his father initially said "no." Pestered by
                    his son, Granville eventually relented, figuring that it might provide a good
                    introduction to small-business management. To acquire the necessary capital,
                    Herman went to the bank with "whose workings he was so familiar"
                    because of his father's employment, and obtained a loan of eight
                        dollars.4
                
                    3James H. Capshew, Herman B Wells: The
                            Promise of the American University (Bloomington, Ind., 2012).
                    4Gerald R. Sherratt, "The Long Journey," The Delta of Sigma Nu Fraternity (Spring 1962), 141- 45,
                        quote p. 142.
                
                
                
                    Herman Wells with his collie Scottie, 1910s. Wells used this
                        photograph in his autobiography, Being Lucky, as part of
                        his depiction of his happy childhood. Courtesy of the author
                
                Herman faced stiff competition for subscribers. The daily Times
                    was a direct competitor with the Indianapolis News, both with
                    statewide coverage. The News, referred to as "The Great
                    Hoosier Daily," had the largest circulation of any Indiana newspaper. Since most local residents would
                    take only one daily paper (sometimes in addition to the weekly Jamestown Press), Herman had to persuade people to take the Times, or, if they already subscribed to the News, convince them to switch.
                The stout twelve-year-old turned out to be a natural salesman. He touted the Times so enthusiastically that he built up his route to more
                         than one hundred customers. The money
                    he earned went into the toy bank bought by his parents shortly after his birth
                    for his college fund. His success as a carrier was proudly noted by his parents,
                    and was soon incorporated into family lore.5
                Herman enjoyed accompanying his father on occasional visits to the
                            Jamestown bank, meeting his father's
                    coworkers, and puttering around with simple jobs. As Herman grew and spent more
                    time out of the household orbit, Granville took a real interest in teaching him
                    about his work in banking and fiduciary management. When Herman was thirteen,
                    Granville started giving his son more responsibility. During school holidays, he
                    learned to operate the bank's mechanical Burroughs Posting Machine, devised
                    to automate bookkeeping procedures. The bulky piece of equipment was designed
                    for a standing adult, so Herman had to perch upon a wooden box to reach the
                    keyboard. He was justifiably proud of his newfound skill, which was a real
                    contribution to the bank's operation, and pleased that he made his father
                    proud. His father boasted later that Herman "was practically raised in a
                        bank."6
                During adolescence, Herman's body grew taller and rounder. Not fond of
                    sports, he kept busy with school and work and other interests such as the civic
                    band. His mother suffered a serious attack of tuberculosis, a dread disease at
                    the time, but she recovered with no lasting effects. Family concern was
                    heightened because both Bernice and Granville had a brother and a sister who
                    died of the disease. This picture of Herman's pre-teen years comports with
                        Being Lucky's idealized account of his formation in
                    small-town Indiana.
                Granville, who had turned 40 in 1914, had achieved a measure of professional
                    success and financial stability, and he was universally admired for his
                    contributions to the local community. He had a dignified public persona, but at
                    home, he was often bedeviled by personal demons and suffered greatly from
                    melancholy moods. Herman later recalled: He was cordial
                        and courteous to every person with whom he came into contact, and yet there
                        was about him a reticence and reserve that appeared to be a part of his
                        general seriousness. 
                            5Ibid. In Being Lucky, 15,
                                Wells referred to the newspaper as the Indianapolis
                                    Times, although the name varied.
                            6Sherratt, "The Long Journey,"
                                142.
                        
                         People tended to be in awe of him, and
                        the expression of their affection was restrained by deep respect.
                    But Granville's punctiliousness had evolved into a consuming introspection,
                    and he ceaselessly worried about his responsibilities. A perfectionist, he felt
                    depressed when he was unable to meet his own high standards.7
                In August 1914, things had gotten so bad that something needed to be done to
                    alleviate Granville's nervous exhaustion. On the morning of August 26,
                    Granville got on the train to Martinsville, Indiana, to stay
                    for a few days at the Martinsville Sanitarium. The facility was perhaps the most
                    famous among those that touted the healing properties of the artesian wells that
                    dotted the area. His departure only added to the serious worries that plagued
                    his mother, Jane Wells. Her headaches and depression had become unbearable, but
                    she continued her daily routines despite numbing anguish. One evening, she
                    prepared dinner, perhaps including some of her famous home-baked bread, and sat
                    down to eat with her husband Isaac and visiting grandson Wayne Gill,
                    Herman's seven-year-old cousin.
                After the meal, Isaac and Wayne left the room while Jane cleared away the plates
                    and put everything in order. Then she left the house, went to a nearby
                    outbuilding, and fashioned a leather noose made of a harness line. Attaching the
                    other end of the leather line to a rafter, she climbed a stepladder, put the
                    noose around her neck, and swung off. Less than a half-hour passed before Isaac
                    and Wayne discovered her lifeless body.
                In a brief article, the Jamestown Press reported that "Ill
                    Health and Worry Caused Derangement Which Resulted in Death of Well Known
                    Woman." The Lebanon newspapers speculated
                    that "her sudden and rash deed" was due to worry about her son's
                    health, noting that Granville had left earlier that day for treatment at the
                    Martinsville Sanitarium. In her fifty-eight years, Jane Wells had buried a son
                    and a daughter, both victims of tuberculosis. In addition to Granville, she left
                    Earl, then a bachelor; daughter Roxie Revercomb; and three grandsons - Wayne
                    Gill, Gene Revercomb, and Herman Wells.8
                
                    7Wells, Being Lucky, 21.
                    8Jamestown Press, August 28, 1914;
                            Lebanon Pioneer, August 27, 1914; Lebanon
                            Reporter, August 27, 1914.
                
                
                The three young cousins were close companions during summer visits to their
                    grandparents' farm. Herman had recently turned twelve years old when his
                    grandmother died. Remembering her as a warm person, Herman later marveled about
                    the fact that she had made biscuits daily and bread regularly to please his
                    grandfather, who heaped scorn on "punk," his term for commercial
                        bread.9 Due to his advancing years, Isaac eventually
                    lived for a time with Granville and Bernice. He was a fun-loving raconteur who
                    relished cigars and whiskey. Isaac spoke his mind and could be sarcastic when
                    confronted with small-mindedness. Herman adored him and took delight in his
                    contrary ways.10
                Although the documentary record is thin, one can surmise that the death of Jane
                    Wells generated significant changes in Herman's family environment. It
                    weighed heavily on Granville's mind, deepening his natural reserve and
                    heightening his propensity to depression. Socially stigmatized, suicide was
                    often viewed as a constitutional condition that ran in families. One can easily
                    infer that Granville considered this possibility and that Herman, young as he
                    was, might have gotten some inkling of this likely family taint. Perhaps Herman
                    pondered the starkly different approaches to life represented by Jane and Isaac
                    Wells.
                Granville was able to maintain his stoic and competent public persona, but
                    remained withdrawn and morose at home. Herman had to grow up quickly to cope
                    with his father's mood disorder. His mother Bernice relied increasingly on
                    her son as a confidant and ally in managing Granville, and he willingly did all
                    he could do to please his parents. Herman pleased his father immensely by
                    continuing to assist at the Jamestown bank. He was a quick
                    study, with a knack for facts and figures. Small-town banks were a vital
                    institution in the economic life of rural America. They provided an array of
                    financial services to both individual customers and commercial clients, and
                    local bankers often dealt with matters of fiduciary delicacy and legal
                    substance. In addition to his cashier duties at the bank, Granville-who had read
                    law-was admitted to the Boone County bar, which made him a more
                    valuable employee, especially in the transaction of contracts and trusts. Young
                    Herman took 
                        9Besides recounting her baking skills, Wells only
                            said this about his grandmother: "Because she died when I was still
                            young, I have little memory of my grandmother Jane Emmert Wells except
                            to be conscious of the fact she was a dutiful and hardworking
                            wife." Wells, Being Lucky, 8.
                        10Later Wells took automobile trips with his
                            grandfather to visit distant relatives in Kentucky, calling it "a rare
                            privilege." Isaac died in 1934, at age 83. Ibid.
                    
                     it all in, from the technical details of
                    banking operations to the human issues of economic health and community
                    development.
                For Herman, keeping busy with productive work acquired a new urgency after his
                    grandmother's suicide and with his father's deepening depression. He
                    adapted to the uncomfortable situation, knowing that he was highly valued by his
                    parents. He worked harder -on his newspaper route, at the bank, on
                    schoolwork-and was able to keep anxiety at bay. As Herman matured, he was faced
                    with an essential tension between love for his father and the fear of being too
                    much like him. He developed heightened sensitivity to the feelings of others and
                    learned to guard the expression of his emotions.
                At the end of the summer of 1917, mumps, a common contagious viral disease that
                    infects the salivary glands, visited the Wells household. Both fifteen-year-old
                    Herman and his mother came down with it. A few months before, the family had
                    moved from the village of Jamestown to the county seat of
                            Lebanon when his father had taken up duties as
                    deputy treasurer of Boone County. Both Granville and
                    Bernice were cognizant of the advantages of the larger city, including an
                    excellent high school. Herman's entrance to Lebanon High School as a
                    sophomore was delayed for several weeks as he battled mumps and a troublesome
                    complication that affected some adolescent boys. In medical terminology, Wells
                    suffered from orchitis, an infection of the testes. Orchitis was a painful
                    condition, with scrotal swelling and extreme sensitivity to movement and touch.
                    It often impaired fertility, and, in some cases, led to sterility.11
                Wells's parents worried about their son's future, and no doubt wondered
                    whether he could have children. Although no contemporary records have come to
                    light, we know that Herman had ample time to contemplate his future as he slowly
                    recuperated. Most young men of his age had begun thinking about romance and
                    interpersonal relationships. What would he find in high school, once he
                    recovered enough to actually start attending?
                
                    11Wells suffered from groin pain for many years. In
                        January 1937, a prostatic examination was conducted on Wells by W. F.
                        Martin, M.D., at the Battle Creek Sanitarium, who reported, "He had
                        mumps and orchitis with partial atrophy of the right testicle which has
                        remained very sensitive and any pressure or manipulation causes pain."
                        The doctor advised removal if the pain "annoys him seriously and
                        continues," adding, "I am sure it is non-functioning and of no
                        value." Battle Creek Sanitarium to Herman B Wells, January 6, 1937,
                        File: Health, box 2, collection 75, Indiana University Archives,
                        Bloomington, Indiana. See also Capshew, Herman B Wells,
                        chaps. 12, 18.
                
                
                With no access to Wells's thoughts, we can observe his behavior and look for
                    clues to see how he dealt with the consequences of this physiological anomaly.
                    Although on the large side, Herman was an attractive individual, well-groomed,
                    courteous, and with a pleasant smile. Socially adept, he made friends easily. He
                    was able to translate the knowledge gained working in his father's bank to
                    business affairs at school, and he served his class as treasurer for the
                    yearbook, newspaper, theatrical productions, and fund-raising schemes.
                Although Wells was voted "Funniest" and "Best All-Around Boy"
                    by his senior class peers, he did have to dodge cruel jabs at his size and
                    weight. In The Cedars, the yearbook of Lebanon High School,
                    many jokes were made at his expense. The caption of his senior picture mixed
                    satire with praise: "Herman is known to the Hall of Fame for three
                    paramount reasons: first his minute size; second, his business head and
                    pecuniary wisdom; and third, his musical ability." The joke pages contained
                    a classified ad: "Be an Athlete - reduce your weight by my new method of
                    reduction. Prof. H.B. Wells, Suite 706, Trust Co. Bldg., Chicago, Ill." His
                    smiling face was the object of good-natured ribbing: "School Flower Garden
                    - Smiles - Herman Wells" and "The Ideal L.H.S. Boy - one with - Mouth
                    Like Herman Wells." In the yearbook, the name of every senior had a zany
                    limerick attached to it, save one that needed no further identification: Words would we waste if we told you this name; It
                        must be the 'Fat Boy' who out of Dickens came; Like a cherub
                        his smiles, All the money beguiles, And a blessing it is, since he
                        buys eats with same. The yearbook also included an exaggerated
                    drawing of an obese weightlifter with a sash across the chest reading
                    "Herman the Fat Boy." One final example of the textual teasing
                    appeared in the want ads section: "Wanted - someone to love a fat man -
                    Herman Wells." Wells left no record of his reaction to the persistent
                    teasing. Perhaps it was balanced out by his popularity, which was based on a
                    genuine respect for the young man and his many accomplishments.12
                
                    12Lebanon High School, The Cedars,
                        1920, pp. 20, 93, 101, 109, 113, 119.
                
                
                There is no evidence that Wells ever had a date, a romance, or any erotic
                    attachment in his three years of high school. Many years later, Wells explained
                    that he had simply been too busy: "With my studies, extracurricular
                    activities, and several hours of outside work, I had little time for dating,
                    dances, or social functions other than those held at school." As he looked
                    back much later, he saw that he made a successful transition to permanent
                    bachelorhood. In high school, he learned how to balance his perceived
                    unsuitability for intimacy with a need for affiliation and attachment. He became
                    a friend to all, and a useful one to boot. Always smiling, he reaped praise and
                    goodwill and was valued for his financial skills and business sense.13
                Herman's parents, both former elementary school teachers, expected him to go
                    to college. His father had attended the Normal School in Terre
                        Haute for a time but did not finish. In high
                    school, Herman had picked up the idea of going to business school, a recent
                    addition to the university curriculum, and decided to attend the University of
                    Illinois, home of the outstanding business school in the Midwest.
                Wells spent the summer after his high school graduation running a small bank in
                            Whitestown, a village of less than five
                    hundred located ten miles southeast of Lebanon. The
                    bank had been formed in competition with an established local bank in an era
                    when few rules governed bank charters and when Indiana averaged
                    more than ten banks to a county - nearly 1,100 banks across the state serving
                    ninety-two counties. With agricultural mechanization and farm consolidation
                    leading to heavy loan demands on banks, and with high commodity prices fueling
                    continued growth, the summer of 1920 was a boom time for Indiana farmers and bankers. Wells, just eighteen, was
                    able to save a substantial amount of money for college. He knew that although
                    his parents were supportive of college, they had slim means to help with
                        expenses.14
                In September, Wells went to Champaign and was directly
                    admitted into the business school. Together with a friend from
                            Lebanon, he found a room in a private
                    residence, where he was treated like a family member. "Even so," Wells
                    reported, "I was wretchedly homesick." He did 
                        13Wells, Being Lucky, 18.
                        14After World War I, rural areas that depended on
                            agriculture saw a drop in the price of farmland and farm products,
                            reversing an earlier inflationary trend caused by the worldwide shortage
                            of food during the war. The recession started in 1921 and continued
                            throughout the decade, with disastrous consequences for farm families
                            and rural economies. Ibid., 48-50.
                    
                     well academically but found the campus
                    "large, impersonal, and a little stifling." At times, he sat through
                    classes of five hundred fellow sstudents, and he later admitted that
                    "psychologically, I was never quite at home there."15
                At midyear, Wells was invited to pledge a fraternity, but he had already decided
                    to leave Illinois and transfer to Indiana. His father opposed the move, citing the
                    strength of the business school at Illinois and his
                    son's promising start. Wells countered that he expected to live and work in
                            Indiana, that many of his friends were already at
                    IU, and that his IU associations would prove valuable to his future. But the IU
                    School of Commerce and Finance was still a fledgling operation, having started
                    in the fall of 1920. Wells finally convinced his father-another step toward
                    forming an independent life.16
                The decision to try Indiana was shaped by his
                    homesickness at Illinois and his determination not to drop out and
                    disappoint his parents. Dealing with the homesickness caused him to look
                    elsewhere for comfort; a return to Lebanon would
                    have been unthinkable. At Indiana , Wells found a
                    "wonderfully stimulating, exciting spirit" pervading the verdant
                    woodland campus. The student body was about half the size of Illinois's 5,000, and the Bloomington environment was more intimate. The
                    place held "great charm and appeal" for Wells, and he immersed himself
                    with gusto in undergraduate life.17
                In 1922, at the end of his sophomore year (his first in Bloomington), Wells was offered a permanent job at
                    the Whitestown bank that had employed him
                    previously. The pay was generous-$200 a month, even more than the going rate for
                    college graduates. Wells was sorely tempted. It would mean giving up his vague
                    and unformed academic ambitions in favor of a respectable entry-level job in his
                    chosen field. His personal finances were tight, and a year-old nationwide
                    recession showed no signs of letting up. Although he had been captivated by
                            Indiana's spirit of place, he was willing to
                    forego additional experiences in Bloomington
                    for financial stability.
                Not surprisingly, his father was opposed to Herman taking the job, probably
                    worried that once his son got away from college, he would find 
                        15Ibid., 29-31.
                        16lbid.
                        17Ibid., 31, 33. See also Capshew, Herman B Wells, chap. 1.
                    
                     it difficult to return. For his part, Wells
                    understood that taking the job would mean an open break with his father. He
                    remained the dutiful son, acceded to his father's wish, and stayed in
                    school.
                With his direction set, at least for the next two years, Wells immersed himself
                    in college life - attending classes and studying, living and having fun at the
                    Sigma Nu chapter house, hanging out at the Book Nook eatery, and, on Sunday,
                    going to the First Methodist Church. He continued to exercise his talent for
                    making and keeping friends. He also developed his skills in economics and
                    business, in the classroom and beyond. He became a moneylender to his friends,
                    charging them a small amount of interest for temporary loans. According to one
                    of his fraternity friends, Wells bought a big armoire for his room at the
                    chapter house and did a brisk business storing tuxedos under lock and key. When
                    a brother came to claim his formal wear before a dance, Wells extracted
                        payment.18
                He served as Sigma Nu treasurer as well as Union Board treasurer, and was elected
                    Eminent Commander of his fraternity for his senior year to oversee fundraising
                    efforts for chapter house renovations. Thus he continued a pattern begun in high
                    school, serving the needs of the group through exercising his financial acumen.
                    And he continued another pattern - eschewing romantic or erotic relationships in
                    favor of platonic friendships.
                Wells did fall in love, as he reported later, but with a place, not a person. He
                    was fascinated by the university and loved its verdant setting, the community it
                    attracted, and the spirit of the place. He summarized his encounter with the genius loci of Indiana:
                    "Those years revealed a hitherto unimagined world to a small-town
                    boy." Through his undergraduate experience, Wells entered into a fellowship
                    beyond his family of origin. He felt a sense of belonging to the university,
                    whose ideals and traditions captivated his interest. Alma
                        mater promised to be an inexhaustible resource and an endless source of
                    delight, independent of but approved by his parents.19
                Those college days became a touchstone for Wells's future. In the midst of
                    navigating the difficult circumstances of his youth, the undergraduate 
                        18James Elliott, interview with author, June 2,
                            2005.
                        19Wells, Being Lucky, 42; James
                            H. Capshew, "Encounter with Genius Loci: Herman Wells at/and/of
                            Indiana University," Perspectives in the History of
                                Higher Education 26 (2011), 193-222.
                    
                     Wells felt at home and glimpsed a vision of
                    academic community at Indiana. Collegiate life provided a
                    universe of possibilities to him, as well as a nurturing context to expand his
                    interpersonal skills and social abilities in a unique direction.
                In his autobiography, Wells vividly sketched the intellectual atmosphere at IU in
                    the 1920s. He noted some of the figures who had provided him with literary
                    sustenance, including novelists Willa Cather, Carl Van Vechten, Edith Wharton,
                    Zona Gale, and Sherwood Anderson. These authors and others, in his words,
                    "opened new vistas of the human condition and revealed Huneker's
                    'pathos of distance.'"20 James Huneker was a
                    journalist and critic who reviewed music, art, and drama. The title phrase of
                    his book The Pathos of Distance: A Book of a Thousand and One
                        Moments (1913) was borrowed from Friedrich Nietzsche's
                    philosophical writings, relating to the differences between self and other that
                    provide a basis for critical judgment. Huneker simplified the concept to apply
                    to aesthetics: "Distance lends pathos, bathes in rosy enchantments the
                    simplest events of a mean past; is the painter, in a word, who with skillful,
                    consoling touches disguises all that was sordid in our youth."21 In Nietzsche's ethics of virtue, however, the term
                    can also refer not only to critical judgments about the external world but also
                    to the process of human improvement through self-fashioning. Taken in this way,
                    it offers a tool for identifying, refining, and integrating disparate parts of
                    the self through self-discipline and self-understanding. The task is difficult
                    and never ending.22 This self-fashioning allows the
                    individual "to develop a signature, an individuality, by working with,
                    reshaping, and exploring the possibilities contained in and presented by raw
                    materials that we did not choose."23
                Wells, like everyone else, did not choose the circumstances of his birth, nor the
                    contingencies that both blessed and assailed his biological family. But once he
                    found himself at Indiana, he discovered resources that would aid
                    his moral, emotional, and cognitive development. The 
                        20Wells, Being Lucky, 42.
                        21James Huneker, The Pathos of
                                Distance: A Book of a Thousand and One Moments
                                    (New York, 1913),
                            332.
                        22Nietzsche referred to the method of
                            "transforming the self into a work of art, of giving style to
                            one's own existence." Marinus Schoeman, "Generosity as a
                            Central Virtue in Nietzsche's Ethics," South
                                African Journal of Philosophy 26 no. 1 (2007), 17-30, quote p.
                            20.
                        23Bonnie Honig, Political Theory and
                                the Displacement of Politics (Ithaca, N.Y.,
                            1993), 62.
                    
                     campus milieu, oriented as it was toward
                    intellectual discovery and mastery, was conducive to this development, as was
                    the structure of extracurricular activities, which rewarded social
                    experimentation and exacted relatively low costs.
                After graduation in 1924 he went home to Boone County,
                    returning to work at his father's bank and living with his parents for two
                    more years. In 1926 he left home again, this time for good, to pursue a
                    master's degree in economics at IU. It would take another four years before
                    he got his foot on the academic ladder, as an instructor in economics at the
                    university. As he progressed administratively, to dean in 1935 and acting
                    president in 1937, he proved to be a talented executive as well as a discerning
                    ally and exponent of Indiana's genius
                        loci.
                As president of Indiana University from 1937 to 1962, Wells embodied the caring
                    heart of a great institution. He rejoiced in the development of scholarship,
                    both by students and faculty, and was always looking for ways that the
                    university could serve the needs of the state and the nation. On the other hand,
                    he was often the chief official mourner when a member of the IU family passed
                    away. The collective grief of World War II was personalized by the death of
                    politician Wendell Willkie in October 1944 and of journalist Ernie Pyle six
                    months later. Striking closer to home was the demise of Wells's closest
                    friend and sole confidant, IU vice president and treasurer Ward Biddle, in May
                    1946. Biddle had mentored Wells for over twenty years. Two years later, in early
                    March 1948, the president was on a mission to restore the German education
                    system when news came that writer Ross Lockridge Jr. had committed suicide in
                            Bloomington, just two months after the
                    publication of his brilliant novel Raintree County. The season
                    of death was not over yet for Wells, however. On March 20, 1948, his father
                    Granville swallowed poison in an attempt to take his own life. He died later
                    that day in the hospital, aged 73.
                In taking on his adult role as university leader and the head of the great
                    Indiana University clan, Wells redeemed his father's parental deficiencies.
                    He chose to accentuate the man's many positive qualities-his
                    civic-mindedness, his deep sense of honesty and fairness, his chosen role as a
                    trustworthy fiduciary-and to emulate them. The negative attributes - the
                    self-centeredness of Granville's black moods, his inability to engage on
                    the domestic front, his suicidal end-Wells took care to mitigate or avoid in his
                    own life.
                
                The two great stresses-one social and one physiological-of his childhood did not
                    cripple Wells, but made him stronger as he navigated to adulthood. Looking for
                    love and approval outside of his nuclear family led him to enlarge his talent
                    for friendship. Able to smile and keep moving through his own psychological
                    storms, he discovered acceptance, joy, and solace in friends and colleagues.
                    Whatever residue of youthful disappointment and hurt remained, Wells transformed
                    it through a private alchemy. The affable and charming educator learned to
                    adapt, doing the best with what he had, in the place he was, and found his
                    vocation in serving others.
            
            
            
                REVIEWS
                Baynard Rush Hall
                    His Story By Dixie Kline Richardson
                            (Bloomington, Ind.: D.K.
                    Richardson, 2009. Pp. xxv, 329. Notes. $21.95. Order from
                    www.pendandbrushoriginals.com.)
                Dixie Kline Richardson confesses that for thirty-five years, she has been in love
                    with Baynard Hall, who died in 1863. She further claims to know him perhaps
                    "as well as he can be known" (p. v). Her infatuation with Hall, the
                    first principal and faculty member of Indiana University, is evident throughout
                    the text, which offers a sympathetic and thorough account of Hall's life as
                    well as an engaging look into his eyewitness portrayal of Indiana in the early 1800s.
                In 1824, Hall and his family settled just north of the territory known as the New
                    Purchase, which had recently been obtained through a treaty signed with local
                    Indian tribes. Although Hall never lived on those treaty lands, he titled his
                    book The New Purchase: or, Seven and a Half Years in the Far
                        West. The book, first published in 1843, offers a rare depiction of
                    early Indiana life, including the dialect of the local
                    citizens, their food, their travel challenges, and the illnesses they endured.
                    It also provides a brief history of the formation of Indiana University; of its
                    first president, Andrew Wylie; and of the "Faculty Wars" that
                    threatened the existence of the new college.
                Hall's book is a historical treasure, and because he was an educated man,
                    his reflections provide a particularly valuable window into Indiana's early history. Nevertheless,
                    Hall's prose style is ponderous. Richardson acknowledges that his
                    "deliberate jumble of time and his unintentional forgetfulness make it
                    virtually impossible to outline events in strict chronological terms" (p.
                    103). In addition, Hall uses thinly disguised pseudonyms for all his major
                    characters and locations (including two pen names for himself), and he fails to
                    distinguish between fictitious and factual accounts. As a result, even the most
                         diligent reader can easily become
                    bogged down in Hall's text.
                Yet Richardson clearly accomplishes her goal of reinvigorating interest in Hall
                    and his book. She breathes new life into Hall's history by lifting
                    captivating accounts from his cumbersome rhetoric. The reader is treated to
                    humorous vignettes, such as the description of one of the Halls's earliest
                    encounters with their new Indiana neighbors, who served corn
                    pones "hard enough to do execution from cannon" during one night spent
                    in a "miserable cabin...a barbarous rectangle of unhewed and unbarked
                    logs" (pp.52-53). Poignant accounts, including the burial of an Indian baby
                    and the loss of loved ones to scarlet fever, illuminate the hardships of life
                    that are otherwise buried in Hall's prose. Throughout, Richardson places
                    Hall's story into historical context, and she includes many anecdotes that
                    significantly add to Hall's memories of events.
                By meticulously documenting Hall's life story and offering insight into his
                    personal trials, Richardson hopes to "set the record straight" on a
                    man she believes to have been "misunderstood, misjudged, and misread"
                    (p. i). Whether or not she succeeds in accomplishing that goal will depend on
                    the views of her readers, some of whom, for example, may consider Hall's
                    harsh depiction of IU president Andrew Wylie unforgivable.
                A brief listing and description of the editions of Hall's book (including
                    James Woodburn's 1916 centennial edition), would have been helpful. The
                    lack of in-text citation is the only other detraction from this otherwise
                    impressive addition to Indiana history.
                GAYLE A. WILLIAMS recently retired from her position as an assistant dean of
                    academic affairs in University College at Indiana University Purdue University
                    Indianapolis. She is the author of the "Biography of David Starr
                    Jordan," in the online Dictionary of Unitarian and
                        Universalist Biography; "Andrew Wylie and Religion at Indiana
                    University, 1824-1851: Nonsectarianism and Democracy," Indiana
                        Magazine of History, March 2003; and her dissertation,
                    "Nonsectarianism and the Secularization of Indiana University,
                    1820-1891," 2001.
            
            
                Shadow of Shiloh
                    Major General Lew Wallace in the Civil War By Gail
                    Stephens (Indianapolis: Indiana
                    Historical Society Press, 2010. Pp. xiii, 301. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $27.95.)
                "Who was Lew Wallace," asks Gail Stephens, in her recent biography of
                    the famed author and Civil War soldier. "First and foremost," she  answers, he was an "adventurous and
                    intelligent man," yet he sometimes played "fast and loose with the
                    truth" (p. 237). In life and letters, Wallace used war as an opportunity to
                    acquire fame and fortune. His 1906 autobiography, while wonderfully descriptive,
                    remains "maddeningly lacking" in important details.
                Although author of the highly acclaimed Ben-Hur: A Tale of the
                        Christ, Wallace is best known for having gotten lost on the way to the
                    Battle of Shiloh (April 6-7, 1862). Confused by contradictory orders to proceed
                    via conflicting routes, Wallace and the men of the 11th Indiana Regiment arrived
                    at the battlefield on the evening of April 6, too late in the day to be useful
                    to Gen. Ulysses S. Grant. Gen. Don Carlos Buell, who arrived the same evening,
                    ferried his soldiers of the Army of the Ohio across the swollen Tennessee River and
                    launched an offensive the following morning which turned the tide of the battle
                    and resulted in the Union's victory.
                Wallace became the scapegoat for the Union's near failure at Shiloh,
                    particularly when Northerners learned of the horrifying number of casualties.
                    Gen. Henry Halleck placed considerable blame on Wallace, arguing that his
                    incompetence in not arriving at the battlefield until evening nearly cost Grant
                    his army. Two months later, Wallace was reassigned to defend
                            Cincinnati against Confederate Gen. Braxton
                    Bragg's possible invasion of Kentucky. He
                    continued to redeem himself when he managed to delay Jubal Early's raid on 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , at the Battle of Monocacy (July 9, 1864) near
                            Frederick, Maryland. Though
                    his troops were defeated, Wallace's stand allowed 
                        Washington
                     defenses time to prepare to defend the city. Grant relieved him
                    days after the battle but later reinstated him.
                Stephens provides an insightful, albeit brief, account of the native Hoosier and
                    his long life after the Civil War. She portrays him as an ambitious scholar,
                    gifted in oratory and with pen. In 1843, at the age of sixteen, Wallace worked
                    in the Marion
                            County clerk's office and wrote speeches for
                    legislators in his spare time. He expanded his literary pursuits with a novel
                    about the Spanish conquest of Mexico, which was later published as The Fair God (1873). Although he joined the Indianapolis militia, he was more interested
                    in studying law, the profession of his father and older brother. The outbreak of
                    the Mexican War inspired him to volunteer for the military. After the war, he
                    returned to Indiana where he practiced law. By the mid-1850s,
                    an interest in politics drew him into elective office. He became a prominent
                    Democrat and was elected to the Indiana Senate for one term. When the Civil War
                    erupted, he accepted a commission as colonel of the 11th Indiana Volunteer
                    Infantry. After the war, Wallace's legal acumen made him an ideal member of
                    both the military commission that  tried the
                    Abraham Lincoln conspirators and the court-martial board that condemned
                            Andersonville commandant Henry Wirz. In 1880,
                        Ben-Hur, his greatest literary accomplishment, became a
                    best-selling novel and earned him considerable fame. Over time, however,
                    Wallace's literary achievements would be eclipsed by the controversy
                    associated with his late arrival at one of the Civil War's greatest
                    battles.
                Well-researched, insightfully argued, and lucidly written, Stephens's
                    perceptive account of Lew Wallace provides a wonderful addition to the growing
                    literature on Hoosiers in the Civil War. Her story reminds us of how the events
                    of a single day can overshadow a person's lifelong achievements.
                STEPHEN D. ENGLE is Professor of History at Florida Atlantic University. He
                    is the co-author of The American Civil War: This Mighty Scourge of
                        War (2003).
            
            
                Hanna's Town
                    A Little World We Have Lost By W. William Wimberly
                    II (Indianapolis: Indiana Historical Society
                    Press, 2010. Pp. ix, 356. Illustrations, notes. $24.95.)
                William Wimberly, retired Presbyterian minister and author of Hanna's Town, grew up in Wabash,
                            Indiana, surrounded by the "uniquely
                    gorgeous" nineteenth-century buildings that rise on the bluff above the
                    commercial district. With the perspective of a returned native son, Wimberly
                    undertakes a journey back to the years when this "acropolis" was
                    created. His purpose is to uncover the spirit of this earlier town in order to
                    explain the origins of Wabash's unusual, almost
                    religious, sense of pride and confidence.
                The author's leisurely journey begins in 1902 with the unheralded transfer
                    of the remains of town founder Hugh Hanna from the old cemetery near the
                        Wabash River to a
                    new site on higher ground. The story then moves backward to the 1826 Treaty of
                    Paradise Springs, which opened the Miami Indians' land to white developers,
                    and to the arrival of Hanna in 1835. In a roughly chronological progression,
                    Wimberly narrates the digging of the Wabash and Erie Canal and the growth
                    of the town's commercial area. He relates the townfolks' great
                    patriotic fervor to save the Union, in battle and on the home front. With
                    visceral detail, the author slogs through muddy streets and views historic fires
                    and floods. Along the way, church leaders, educators, and women's club
                    leaders tame the wilderness; civic fathers build the first courthouse and its
                    later grand replacement. Local villains and 
                    tabloid-variety scandals unfold. Material structures seem to replace community
                    members in importance as railroads arrive and palatial homes appear on the hill.
                    Almost inadvertently, it seems, Civil War veterans carry out their dream of a
                    fitting memorial by building one of the town's greatest jewels, the
                    magnificent Memorial Hall, next to the courthouse.
                Within this broad context, Wimberly introduces compelling individuals who
                    contributed to the town's spirit. The more interesting include town father
                    Hugh Hanna; New School Presbyterian minister Rev. James Thomson; Dr. James Ford,
                    physician and local Renaissance man; newspaper crusader Naaman Fletcher;
                    Catherine Caldwell, Civil War home front leader; lawyer and political leader J.
                    D. Connor; educator Adelaide Steele Baylor; and physician and Spanish American
                    War heroine Dr. Rosa Kidd Beere. Miami Chief Richardville and Indian traders are
                    particularly well researched. Likewise, Wimberly's narrative is
                    strengthened by accounts of the town's nineteenth-century Jewish and
                    African American communities.
                Readers interested in Indiana's pioneers will
                    appreciate Hanna's Town for its exhaustive research.
                    Likewise, historic preservationists will benefit from its detailed description
                    of nineteenth-century architecture. Less patient readers, however, may question
                    the author's narrative digressions. More importantly, readers may find
                    Wimberly's ambitious search for the underlying spirit of his town too
                    incomplete.
                Two occasions in particular raise intriguing questions about the town-and in
                    particular, its residents' attitudes regarding race and the meaning of the
                    Civil War. In January 1866, townsfolk gave a reception and dance to honor
                    Indiana African American veterans of the horrific battles of
                            Petersburg, Virginia. While
                    the town was in the habit of welcoming returning soldiers, the interracial event
                    was "especially poignant" and "graciously hosted by a mostly
                    white community" (pp. 166-67). With further probing, Wimberly might connect
                    this celebration to the ministries of local churches opposed to slavery
                    (especially the New School Presbyterians) and to local Republicans'
                    interpretation of the Declaration of Independence. In 1899, more than thirty
                    years after the war, when veterans dedicated Memorial Hall, had townspeople kept
                    the affirmation of liberty and racial justice alive? Was Memorial Hall intended
                    to represent more than the veterans' own heroism and sacrifice in their
                    fight to save the Union?
                Finally, Wimberly's journey seems to end not at the new cemetery on top of
                    the bluff, but rather at the statue of Abraham Lincoln dedicated in 1932 on the
                    courthouse square. Symbolizing a commitment to compassion and justice, Lincoln
                    speaks to the town's proud past and points the way to the future.
                
                PEGGY SEIGEI'S article on Charles Beecher, a New School Presbyterian
                    minister in Fort Wayne, appeared in the
                    December 2010 issue of the IMH. Her research interests also include Indiana
                    Civil War nurses, the Underground Railroad, and the suffrage movement in
                            Fort Wayne.
            
            
                Gary, The Most American of All Cities
                    By S. Paul O'Hara (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2011. Pp.
                    x, 195. Notes, bibliography, index. Paperbound, $19.95.)
                The history of Gary, Indiana, is
                    punctuated by extremes. In the early twentieth century, the city was home to the
                    world's largest integrated steel mill complex, the Gary Works. During the
                    1960s, it became one of the nation's premier showcases for African American
                    political empowerment. By century's end, few places in the
                            United
                            States displayed more severe symptoms of urban
                    distress. Because of these exceptional circumstances, the city was frequently
                    invoked in debates and discussions about the course of America's progress.
                    Paul O'Hara takes full advantage of this prolific commentary in a book that
                    explores America's shifting views about industrial capitalism through the
                    lens of Gary. While other scholars have chronicled the
                    unfolding of industrial development, social reform, racial politics, and
                    environmental activism within this fascinating city, O'Hara is the first to
                    examine Gary as an idea or, perhaps more accurately,
                    as a palimpsest upon which the rest of the nation projected its hopes, fears,
                    convictions, and assumptions. To this end, O'Hara reveals
                            Gary from the outside in, through the eyes of
                    journalists, novelists, filmmakers, and other observers who either visited the
                    steel town or passed through. As O'Hara deftly demonstrates, it was these
                    image makers who vaulted Gary to national prominence and
                    allowed its history to narrate American culture in the twentieth century.
                The book's organization corresponds to three sequential phases of public
                    discussion, each guided by a distinctive set of themes and tropes. Early
                    commentary responded to the United States Steel Corporation's novel use of
                    geography to resolve the tension between industrial capitalism and social
                    harmony. Among admirers, Gary's location on
                            Chicago's distant metropolitan periphery
                    and the internal demarcation of residential and work spaces inspired utopian
                    visions of industrial efficiency and effective social planning. Critics,
                    however, viewed the steel company's laissez-faire stance toward civic
                    affairs as an abnegation of corporate responsibility. This physical separation
                    of mill and town continued to influence public perceptions in subsequent
                    decades.  While the Gary Works trumpeted the
                    triumphs of mass production technology, the town's messy social scene
                    evoked frontier imagery. Alternatively, the town was a beacon of individual
                    opportunity and an unruly den of iniquity. After World War II, political
                    corruption, crime, racial discord, and de-industrialization produced a tale of
                    declension.
                Actors external to Gary dominate O'Hara's
                    analysis, but the author is careful to contrast national perspectives with
                    internally generated responses that flattered the city with an emphasis on
                    ethnic solidarity, a noble work ethic, and gritty masculinity. Taken together,
                    these conflicting narratives flesh out a self-portrait of America as it
                    struggled to reconcile a powerful manufacturing economy with a complicated array
                    of social repercussions. Although O'Hara insists that these narratives
                    trace the "ways Americans understood and felt about industrialism and
                    industrial spaces," (p. 4) the real storyline here is that concerns about
                    racial conflict in the late twentieth century displaced and disfigured a
                    national conversation about industrial capitalism.
                O'Hara has produced a highly readable and engaging account appropriate for
                    adoption in courses about twentieth-century American culture and urban history.
                    Readers of this journal may be amused to learn that as far back as 1912,
                            Gary was set off from the rest of the state in
                    the public imagination. As a creation of monopoly capitalism,
                            Chicago's eastern appendage was
                    considered anti-thetical to the spirit of truly free enterprise for which not
                    only the "real" America but the "real" Indiana stood.
                ANDREW HURLEY is Professor of History at the University of Missouri-St.
                    Louis. His most recent book is Beyond Preservation: Using Public
                        History to Revitalize Inner Cities (2010).
            
            
                A New Nation of Goods
                    The Material Culture of Early America By David
                    Jaffee (Philadelphia: University of
                    Pennsylvania Press, 2010. Pp. [xvi], 400. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $45.00.)
                A New Nation of Goods is a detailed yet wide-ranging study of
                    the manufacture and consumption of material goods in the provincial northeastern
                            United
                            States between 1775 and 1850-a period after
                    provincial elites' embrace of genteel goods, but before the materialization
                    of Victorian bourgeois culture. David Jaffee investigates the vital role played
                    by New England's provincial craftsmen in facilitating the emerging middle
                         class's embrace of gentility. As
                    its title suggests, Jaffee's work is both a sequel and a rebuttal to
                    historians (most notably T. H. Breen, in his 1986 essay "An Empire of
                    Goods") who have maintained that American culture was forged in
                    metropolitan ports during the colonial period. Instead, Jaffee maintains that an
                    American taste formed in rural New England after the American Revolution, as
                    producers modified elite goods in order to appeal to growing ranks of middling
                    consumers, formulating new methods of production and distribution along the
                    way.
                To support this broad claim, Jaffee focuses on four types of goods: clocks,
                    portraits / daguerreotypes, chairs, and books. He presents these artifacts not
                    as nave-or folk-interpretations of established metropolitan types (still the
                    dominant view), but rather as unique design solutions that stemmed from
                    craftsmen's embrace of new techniques of mass production alongside
                    "the concurrent development of a flexible marketing system" (p. 181).
                    Jaffee argues that the itinerant peddlers, booksellers, and portraitists who
                    brought consumer goods to New England's gentry and middling sorts fueled
                    the production of ever more goods and simultaneously educated purchasers about
                    the material demands of gentility. Looking beyond the well-studied factories of
                            Lowell, Massachusetts, he demonstrates that
                    "industrialization took place outside the factory system" (p.
                    187).
                The strength of Jaffee's work lies in his deft illumination of a more fluid,
                    "grassroots" (p. 296) form of industrialization, as individual
                    artisans took advantage of waterpower, available labor, and technological
                    innovation to forge regional ties and increase production. Chairs produced in
                            Sterling, Massachusetts, in the 1820s might be assembled from wood
                    cut by waterpower in one city, legs turned on a lathe in a workshop in a
                    different city, and rush seats woven by women in surrounding farmhouses. In the
                    1850s, as manufacturing began to consolidate and the mobile, small-scale
                    entrepreneur was replaced with "a more hierarchical structure" (p.
                    296), Jaffee argues that middle-class consumers eschewed their independent
                    gentility, becoming reliant on metropolitan tastes and bound to urban centers of
                    production like New York City.
                Although readers will appreciate Jaffee's deft interweaving of the important
                    articles he has assembled over his career, his synthesis fails to elucidate
                    fully the connections between aesthetic choices and class identity.
                    Jaffee's concept of "hybrid" products that melded metropolitan
                    styles with local demand is suggestive, but is never fully developed. Why did
                    provincial middling consumers prefer stenciled chairs and meticulously
                    delineated portraits? Of all the goods used by colonial elites, why did middling
                    folks select clocks, chairs, and portraits as the constellation required for
                    gentility? If emulation  drove consumer
                    demand, then why did provincial consumers often purchase goods that looked
                    strikingly different from those used by metropolitan elites? Jaffee is hampered
                    in answering these questions by his loose and shifting definitions of the social
                    groups that constituted the emerging middle class, and by his selection of
                    illustrations. (There are no close-ups that allow readers to follow construction
                    details or decorative elements.) Despite these drawbacks, readers will
                    appreciate Jaffee's penetrating glimpse into the overlooked gap between the
                    consumer revolution and mass production and will come to appreciate the
                    important role played by small New England towns in crafting a new nation of
                    goods.
                JENNIFER VAN HORN is Visiting Assistant Professor in Interdisciplinary
                    Studies at Towson University. She specializes in early American art and material
                    culture and is currently at work on a book manuscript, "Civility in a New
                    World: Material Culture and the Making of America 1740- 1780."
            
            
                Hearts Beating for Liberty
                    Women Abolitionists in the Old Northwest By Stacey
                    Robertson (Chapel Hill: University of
                    North Carolina Press, 2010. Pp. xiv, 303. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $39.95.)
                In Hearts Beating for Liberty, Stacey Robertson argues that
                    western women held a distinctive place in the antislavery movement. Distanced
                    from the eastern split between the Garrisonian and anti-Garrisonian factions,
                    western women forged a unique antislavery stance that Robertson characterizes as
                    pragmatic, goal-oriented, and based on mixed-sex cooperation.
                Radical Garrisonians in the West were far more isolated and marginalized than
                    those in the East. Out of necessity, they built coalitions with Liberty Party
                    advocates (political abolitionists), church-based antislavery colleagues, and
                    those who helped fugitive slaves on the Underground Railroad. Robertson argues
                    that western Garrisonians had no choice but to cooperate with the various
                    anti-slavery factions while moderating their own radicalism. After all, she
                    states, Ohio, Indiana, and
                            Illinois residents were generally more
                    conservative, more hostile to women's rights, and more racist in terms of
                    their Black Laws than those in the East. Since most westerners shunned
                    controversial Garrisonian positions like disunionism, nonvoting, and
                    women's rights, western antislavery activists developed a more flexible
                    approach based on forging coalitions and making compromises.
                
                Robertson argues that the rural nature of the Old Northwest also determined which
                    types of abolitionism gained a foothold there. The free produce movement, for
                    example, worked well in the West, where a boycott of slave-made goods was less
                    of a sacrifice to rural farm families who did not rely on store-bought luxury
                    goods to begin with. Quaker men and women worked together to create relatively
                    successful free-produce publications and stores throughout the region. Robertson
                    points out, however, that "advocacy of free produce often meant increasing
                    women's unpaid 'morally pure' labor in the home. So while
                    boycotting slave-made produce might help immediate emancipation, it also
                    reinforced the binary of women as moral domestics and men as paid players in the
                    marketplace" (p. 68).
                Some western abolitionist women also adopted the antislavery fair, which the
                    Garrisonian Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society had turned into a lucrative
                    fund-raiser. Western women were attracted to the fairs as respectable activities
                    that seemed to fall safely within "a traditional feminine framework"
                    of crafts, food, and charity (p. 97). Although most of their fairs did not raise
                    much money, Robertson suggests that they did help the participants gain
                    fellowship and support each other.
                The Liberty Party accepted women as fund-raisers, supporters, and
                    behind-the-scenes organizers, but not as independent members. Robertson
                    concludes that Liberty Party women's "partisan knowledge and
                    participation did not necessarily lead them to advocate woman's rights or
                    woman's suffrage, but it did challenge the prevalent association of
                    politics with masculinity" (p. 65). Western abolitionist women focused less
                    on suffrage and more on practical issues that could be linked to concrete
                    improvements in their communities, such as equal education and dress reform.
                    Although very few western women adopted the Bloomer costume since it was too
                    controversial, they were open to general dress reform ideas that promoted more
                    comfortable clothes and boots, thereby allowing women greater mobility and
                    flexibility in their rural terrain.
                When Garrisonian Abby Kelley lectured in Ohio in the mid-1840s,
                    she inspired many women to become abolitionists. She found, however, that they
                    focused on only certain priorities that meshed best with their region; one was
                    the laudable goal of promoting education for free blacks. Several women
                    abolitionists taught in black schools, braving hostility and violence from the
                    dominant white society. Initially, Robertson's claim that western women
                    established a unique approach, "including a non-Garrisonian focus on
                    challenging racial inequality in the law and social settings," seems a bit
                    jarring (p. 129). After all, the Garrisonians Sarah and Angelina Grimk
                    developed close friendships with African Americans, invited a mixed-race group
                    of friends  to Angelina's wedding to
                    Theodore Weld, and fought against racial prejudice in the North. However, as
                    Robertson rightly points out, eastern Garrisonians such as Maria Weston Chapman
                    actually chided their western sisters for aiding fugitive slaves, describing
                    this life-saving work as a distraction and a mere palliative that would not help
                    achieve their true goal-an end to the evil system of slavery. Black and white
                    western abolitionist women ignored these rigid strictures and gained hands-on
                    experience in interracial cooperation as they fed and clothed the many fugitive
                    slaves whom they met and cared for. They also worked in interracial coalitions
                    to attack the region's Black Laws that restricted the rights of free
                    blacks.
                Hearts Beating for Liberty is a useful addition to the
                    antislavery literature, providing the first full-length study of abolitionist
                    women in the West.
                ALISON M. PARKER is chair of the history department at the College at
                    Brockport, State University of New York. She is the author of Articulating Rights: Nineteenth-Century American Women on Race, Reform, and
                        the State (2010) and co-editor of the "Gender and Race in American
                    History" book series for the University of Rochester Press.
            
            
                Army at Home
                    Women and the Civil War on the Northern Home Front By
                    Judith Giesberg (Chapel Hill: University of
                    North Carolina Press, 2009. Pp. xi, 232. Charts, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $35.00.)
                This is an ambitious book. As Judith Giesberg correctly explains, while
                    historians have extensively examined Southern women and middle-class Northern
                    women during the Civil War, there has been relatively little work on
                    working-class, rural, immigrant, or African American women in the North during
                    the conflict. The author uses a series of case studies to explore how different
                    types of Northern women, who often left little written record, experienced the
                    Civil War. Giesberg seeks to blur the distinctions between battlefield and home
                    front while simultaneously demonstrating how these women and the war affected
                    each other.
                Giesberg's case studies are wide-ranging thematically, including women
                    managing farms alone, seeking aid in relief shelters, working in munitions
                    factories, struggling to integrate street cars, and journeying to reclaim
                    soldiers' bodies. Their geographical range is more limited-the
                    author's subjects live in rural Pennsylvania
                    and the cities of Boston, 
                    Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, New York, 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , and San Francisco. Had Giesberg
                    explained how and why she chose these locations and the particular women on
                    which she focuses, she would have aided the reader in understanding how
                    representative these case studies are and would have strengthened her assertions
                    about how Northern women in general acted and thought during the war.
                The book raises two constant themes: that "the line separating the
                    battlefield from the home front had ... eroded during the war," and that
                    Northern and Southern women often experienced the conflict in similar ways (p.
                    16). In a needed corrective, Giesberg directly challenges Gary Gallagher's
                    argument that Southern women were distinctive in their enthusiastic support of
                    the Confederacy despite considerable wartime deprivation. She rightly insists
                    that the conflict deeply affected many Northern women, who in turn helped shape
                    the course of the war. Still, Giesberg may go too far, for real differences
                    remained between the difficulties faced by families on the Northern home front
                    and Union armies rampaging through the South. Her arguments-that "though
                    popular images sought to create a sense of distance between home and the war,
                    women exposed that separation as largely imaginary," or that female
                    munitions workers were "blurring the line between soldier and
                    civilian"-sometimes feel strained (pp. 9, 76).
                Giesberg ambitiously engages a wide variety of theoretical models in a relatively
                    short book. James Scott's concept of "infrapolitics," for
                    example, informs her discussion of how Northern women imagined free-labor
                    nationalism. She states that the "book examines alternative wartime
                    geography" and that "the Civil War changed the way people on the home
                    front saw space and moved through it" (pp. 10, 164). None of the
                    theoretical models, however, is fully developed.
                The critiques above arise only because Giesberg has written an ambitious book in
                    a relatively new field. This is the kind of work that provokes more questions
                    than it provides answers, exactly what the scholarship needs at this time.
                    Giesberg should be applauded for pushing the boundaries of scholarship and
                    helping to set the path for future research about women on the Northern home
                    front during the Civil War.
                ANDREW SLAP is an associate professor of history at East Tennessee State
                    University. He is the author of The Doom of Reconstruction: The
                        Liberal Republicans in the Civil War Era (2007) and is currently
                    working on a book about African American communities along the Mississippi River in
                    the nineteenth century.
            
            
            
                The Good Men Who Won the War
                    Army of the Cumberland Veterans and Emancipation Memory
                    By Robert Hunt (Tuscaloosa: University of
                    Alabama Press, 2010. Pp. ix, 178. Illustrations, appendix, notes, index.
                    $36.00.)
                Creating a Confederate Kentucky
                    The Lost Cause and Civil War Memory in a Border State By
                    Anne E. Marshall (Chapel Hill: University of
                    North Carolina Press, 2010. Pp. xii, 233. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $35.00.)
                Robert Hunt's The Good Men Who Won the War and Anne E.
                    Marshall's Creating a Confederate Kentucky each emphasize
                    how certain aspects of the Civil War were (and are) remembered. Considered
                    together, these books demonstrate the potential and the problems of a
                    memory-history paradigm, which on one level is simply a way of treating any and
                    all well-worn Civil War topics over again (the old book was about Sherman's
                    March, the new one is about the memory of Sherman's
                    March-in some cases, a distinction without a difference). Fortunately, these two
                    works have a great deal to offer on both sides of the fact-memory relationship.
                    Both are worth reading-together or separately.
                Hunt's primary research is conducted in regimental histories and memoirs
                    written by former soldiers who served in the Army of the Cumberland, mostly men
                    from Ohio, Illinois, and
                            Indiana. He carefully limits his sources,
                    achieving very sharp focus. His goal-fully realized in this meticulous work-is
                    "to evaluate how the authors included emancipation in their interpretation
                    of the North's victory in the Civil War" (p. 1). Since the original,
                    announced purpose of the war was to the preserve the Union through a limited
                    campaign, every Union soldier had to come to grips with the big change to a
                    program of total war that destroyed the institution of slavery.
                In an epilogue, Hunt briefly develops his theories of the present-day American
                    way of war, which he sees as an extension and development of the hard
                    war/emancipation pattern traced for the first time in our history by the Union
                    Army, as exemplified by the Army of the Cumberland. The Cumberlanders remembered
                    and justified their total warfare "as an emancipation event" (p. 139).
                    Their goodness, their reputations as citizen-soldiers depended on it; it
                    constituted the point of the Civil War for them and for their nation.
                Marshall deals with the question of whether Kentucky became a Confederate state
                    after the war was over. Although Kentucky never
                    seceded, although the state contributed many more troops to the Union Army than
                         to the Confederacy, the answer-as
                    Marshall demonstrates with massive evidence-is yes. After establishing that
                            Kentucky was probably more rebellious than the
                    Rebels, Marshall traces the impact of this extraordinary development in the
                    Commonwealth up to 1935 (in detail) and to the present (briefly)-with research
                    into Civil War memorial activity, the production of monuments, the staging of
                    conventions, and literature. The strongest aspect of this book is its scrutiny
                    of the development of a cultural memory that is simply false, the assumption or
                    pretense that Kentucky was a member of the Confederacy, with all
                    the paraphernalia of legends, memorials, propaganda, organizations, and laws
                    needed to support an erroneous narrative of Kentucky on the
                    losing side of the Civil War.
                Marshall's work is flawed by instances of careless research. For example,
                    she identifies the first president of Berea College as Charles Fairchild (p.
                    118) (his name was Edward Henry Fairchild-Charles was his son.) She states that
                    William Goodell Frost was president of Oberlin College before he became
                    president of Berea College (p. 119), when he was a professor at Oberlin, not a
                    president; she also mentions the "fact" that John G. Fee was a
                    Methodist minister (p. 13), but Fee was never a Methodist, nor did that
                    denomination influence his thinking. Given her themes and subject matter, she
                    could not afford such evident mistakes, the presence of which suggests that
                    there might be more.
                Hunt validates the memories of his carefully selected authors, comparing what
                    they remembered to what actually happened. He constructs a collective memory
                    from the narratives of the former soldiers, but the bases for his theorizing are
                    always personal, firsthand stories (and opinions) of men who served in the Army
                    of the Cumberland, men who were calling upon their own experiences. So
                    "memory" in Hunt's book means what we ordinarily mean by the
                    word. The former soldiers of the Army of the Cumberland are presented,
                    basically, as reliable witnesses, trying to come to terms with their remembered
                    wartime experiences in ways that illuminate "what actually
                    happened."
                Marshall's sources are more diverse than Hunt's, as she explores
                    "the strange ways in which Kentuckians remembered the Civil War" (p.
                    xi). In fact, "remembered" is the wrong word. "Memory" in
                        Creating a Confederate Kentucky covers a wide spectrum of
                    lying, sentimentalizing, ignoring, covering up, forgetting, mythologizing,
                    believing your grandmother, and so on, through the various means by which human
                    beings delude themselves and others, creating powerful illusions that may last
                    for generations and beyond. A high percentage of Marshall's selected
                    authors are not reporting from first-hand experience-are not, in fact,
                    remembering. The creation of Confederate Kentucky involved a virtual  eradication of "what actually happened."
                    So Marshall, unlike Hunt, does not validate the accounts she explores-instead,
                    she repeatedly reveals how "Civil War Memory" does not square with the
                    facts. And, ironically, she wants her readers to remember what the actors in her
                    narrative forgot.
                The most significant common feature of these two books is not, however, their
                    consideration of memory versus facts. More strikingly, both authors discover
                    racism as the prevalent motivation in the alterations that Civil War
                    "memory" performs on history. The Cumberland soldiers claimed the
                    moral victory of emancipation without facing the failure of Reconstruction or
                    the position of freed slaves in postwar America; because the system of slavery
                    was destroyed by it, Kentuckians, by and large, rejected the Union cause that
                    they had formerly supported. Both Hunt and Marshall explore the role that
                    whiteness played in shaping these two quite different views of the Civil War. As
                    it turned out, the winners and the losers had one common lapse of
                    "memory" that would not be dealt with directly until the civil rights
                    era. What will we remember next?
                RICHARD SEARS is Tripp Professor of the Humanities, Berea College (retired).
                    He is the author of Camp Nelson: A Civil War History (2002);
                    and A Utopian Experiment in Kentucky: Integration and Social
                        Equality at Berea, 1866-1904 (1996).
            
            
                Elizabeth Cady Stanton
                    An American Life By Lori D. Ginzberg
                            (New
                            York: Hill and Wang, 2009. Pp. 254.
                    Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Paperbound, $16.00.)
                Through a detailed and engaging biography, Lori Ginzberg has attempted to
                    humanize the larger-than-life women's rights reformer, Elizabeth Cady
                    Stanton. Culling rich primary resources, Ginzberg explores Stanton's often
                    strained personal relationships, her ever-changing reform activities, and the
                    complicated connections between the two. Additionally, Ginzberg attempts to
                    place Stanton and her activism within the context of evolving conceptions of
                    gender within the dynamic nineteenth-century political debates over both
                    women's and African American rights that, as Ginzberg aptly shows, both
                    unified and polarized reformers themselves. Stanton was, in Ginzberg's
                    telling, an "extraordinary American who, in many respects, lived a very
                    ordinary life" (p. 8).
                Ginzberg argues that Stanton was one of the first reformers to devote  her considerable intellectual and persuasive powers
                    exclusively to the cause of women's rights and that, in the process, she
                    came to define feminism and feminist reforms for generations. However, as
                    Ginzberg ably demonstrates, Stanton was also a mother who struggled with the
                    demands of raising a large family, a wife who mourned a strained and distant
                    relationship with her husband, a friend who frequently misunderstood the needs
                    of those who cared most about her, and a woman who loved comfort and luxury to
                    the point of hypocrisy.
                The greatest contribution of this work lies in its early chapters, where Ginzberg
                    explores Stanton's attraction to reform movements, her involvement in the
                    abolitionist cause, and her integral role in the women's rights movement up
                    to the passage of the Fifteenth Amendment. Particularly valuable is
                    Ginzberg's exploration of a number of prevalent myths surrounding
                    Stanton's childhood and early reform activities and their impact on her
                    ultimate women's rights work. Ginzberg contends that Stanton's own
                    fastidious editing of her papers resulted in inaccurate accounts of the
                    reformer's early activism, including the well-known gender discrimination
                    that she faced on her honeymoon at the World Anti-Slavery Convention. The result
                    of such changes was to inflate her importance within, and her dedication to, the
                    abolitionist movement. Through the use of exceptional primary research, Ginzberg
                    successfully presents the image of a woman at times blinded by her own
                    dedication to the cause of women's rights and never truly invested in
                    abolition, making it logical for Stanton to argue against the cause of African
                    American rights when she saw the Fifteenth Amendment as detrimental to
                    women's suffrage.
                Sadly, the subsequent chapters examining the period from 1868 to the end of
                    Stanton's life in 1902 are not as detailed or as brilliant as the first
                    section of the work. However, they still provide interesting insights into the
                    early functioning of the National Women's Suffrage Association, the writing
                    of the Women's Bible, and Stanton's other extensive women's
                    rights activism during this period. Ginzberg's gift for culling a wide
                    variety of primary sources is also prevalent in these chapters, as she explores
                    Stanton's complicated personal and professional relationship with Susan B.
                    Anthony, the reactions of other reformers to her personality and her activism,
                    as well as her strained and at times heartbreaking connections to her
                    family.
                Overall, Elizabeth Cady Stanton: An American Life provides a
                    valuable contribution to nineteenth-century American reform history. Lori
                    Ginzberg fills a substantial need in the historiography of the women's
                    rights movement, providing a well-researched and accessible biography, and ably
                    demonstrating that Elizabeth  Cady Stanton
                    was at once a remarkable intellectual, a vastly influential reformer, and a
                    complex and flawed human being.
                MICHELE GRIGSBY COFFEY is Visiting Assistant Professor of History and
                    Southern Studies at the University of Mississippi.
            
            
                Hamlin Garland, Prairie Radical
                    Writings from the 1890s Edited by Donald Pizer
                            (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 2010.
                    Pp. xxvii, 162. Notes, index. $45.00.)
                Hamlin Garland's standing in contemporary American literary studies rests
                    largely on his tales of the Middle Border found in Main-Travelled
                        Roads (1891), a collection of short stories that present an honest and
                    often excoriating portrait of midwestern farm life in the 1880s. For a while he
                    was an essential reference point in the history and teaching of American realism
                    and naturalism, but his stock fell sharply in the culture wars of the 1970s and
                    '80s, and it has only been with the recovery of local color writing and
                    regionalism in the last twenty years that his name has begun to creep back into
                    mainstream academic discussion. Donald Pizer's collection attempts to
                    contribute to this small resurrection of Garland's reputation, and does so
                    not by reiterating his position within the field of regional fiction but by
                    bringing together for the first time a series of his writings from the late
                    1880s and '90s-the "first act" of his career, before he turned to
                    writing more conventional romantic novels-that reveal him as an engaged and
                    sometimes radical political writer.
                The figure that emerges in these pages is, however, not always entirely
                    persuasive. After a typically thorough and informative introduction from Pizer
                    that emphasizes the personal motivations behind Garland's work and that
                    highlights, especially, the importance of Henry George and Herbert Spencer to
                    his intellectual formation, the book splits into two sections: four examples of
                    his Middle Border fiction not previously collected, and a small but indicative
                    selection of "Social, Political, and Critical Writing" that captures
                    the anger and vigor of Garland's early life. The fiction is a welcome
                    addition to Garland scholarship and will prove invaluable to a fuller picture of
                    his literary output, but does present a vision of midwestern farm life that can
                    be forbiddingly hopeless. The first story, "A Common Case" (1888),
                    tells of a work-worn woman dying from cancer whose delirious and desperate final
                    moments are spent denouncing her entire life, particularly her husband;
                    "John Boyle's Conclusion" (also 1888), whose eponymous character
                    is driven to suicide by failed crops and 
                    unbearable poverty, brings to mind Michael Lesy's Wisconsin
                        Death Trip (1973). The feminist sympathies apparent in much of
                    Garland's writing-his novel Rose of Dutcher's Coolly
                    (1895) tackles the issue of the "New Woman" head on-are in full flow
                    in the other two stories, "A Prairie Heroine" (1891) and "The
                    Land of the Straddle-Bug" (1894-95). The latter of these is probably the
                    most daring, telling of an extramarital affair that not only goes unpunished but
                    is effectively celebrated as a legitimate act of rebellion by a heroine trapped
                    in intolerable circumstances. While these stories retain something of their
                    original power, their political didacticism and bleak bitterness can render them
                    difficult pills to swallow for any modern reader.
                The political and critical writings strike a more hopeful note-Garland's
                    views on land tax, independent theater, women's suffrage, and literary
                    sectionalism all get an airing-but do not always hold together as coherent
                    manifestos for his staunchly held beliefs. The radical Garland being presented
                    here can feel more like a reactionary nativist in "Literary Emancipation of
                    the West" (1893), while Pizer's sense that Garland developed a
                    "full-blown aesthetic creed" (p. 93) during the 1880s hardly holds up.
                    His most coherent expression of his literary and artistic theory appeared in Crumbling Idols (1894) but, as with William Dean
                    Howells's own notions of realism-something Garland celebrated in his essay
                    "Mr. Howells's Latest Novels" (1890), also included in
                    Pizer's collection-it barely stands up to scrutiny. There is undoubtedly an
                    ardent and committed political figure revealed in these works, perhaps more so
                    than previously acknowledged, but not necessarily a thinker who deserves to be
                    taken a great deal more seriously.
                Pizer has gathered together an important collection, and for those interested in
                    midwestern or nineteenth-century fiction, or even early Populist politics, it
                    brings together an important set of texts that have long been almost
                    inaccessible. The volume may not catapult Garland into a place of greater
                    importance within intellectual history, but it does provide an illuminating
                    approach to the impassioned and fractious issues that swirled around American
                    life in the tumultuous 1890s.
                MARK STOREY is Associate Lecturer in American Literature at the University
                    of Nottingham. His work on American fiction has appeared in the Journal of American Studies and Nineteenth-Century Literature, and he
                    is the author of Rural Fictions, Urban Realities: A Geography of
                        Postbellum American Literature (forthcoming).
            
            
            
                The William Howard Taft Presidency
                    By Lewis L. Gould (Lawrence:
                    University Press of Kansas, 2009. Pp. xv, 269. Illustrations, notes,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $34.95.)
                Helen Taft
                    Our Musical First Lady By Lewis L. Gould
                            (Lawrence: University Press of Kansas, 2010.
                    Pp. viii, 220. Illustrations, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $34.95.)
                Lewis L. Gould, author of many distinguished works of political history, has used
                    his voluminous knowledge of the Progressive Era and the Republican Party to
                    produce two succinct works that offer a definitive view of the overlooked
                    presidency of William Howard Taft. Sandwiched between the charismatic Theodore
                    Roosevelt and the idealistic Woodrow Wilson, the ponderous, three-hundred-pound
                    Taft generally has been written off as a lackluster chief executive. Gould,
                    however, calls attention to his abilities and integrity, painting an absorbing
                    picture of the downward spiral of a presidency that floundered in part because
                    of inadequate political advisors. In this volume from the American Presidency
                    series, Gould reassesses Taft's administration in a well-argued work that
                    shows how Taft's relationship with his chief patron, Roosevelt, soured in a
                    series of relatively minor misunderstandings that included distrust between the
                    wives of the two leaders.
                The book provides a fascinating object lesson in how not to function successfully
                    as president in spite of good intentions and a profound belief in following the
                    U.S. Constitution and existing law. Taft's genial nature, which perhaps led
                    him to procrastinate, seemingly obscured his recognition of the need to plan his
                    public utterances more carefully. His compulsion to take lengthy speech-making
                    trips may have gratified his need for polite applause but did not serve him well
                    politically in the long run. Unlike T.R., his ebullient predecessor, Taft lacked
                    the ability to mesmerize his audiences, and perhaps some of the key issues
                    during his administration-such as complicated arguments over the tariff,
                    reciprocal trade agreements with Canada, and his support for a controversial
                    secretary of the interior who disagreed with Roosevelt's conservation
                    policies-did not lend themselves to exciting pronouncements. At any rate, he
                    failed to stir public sentiment as Roosevelt had, and he lacked his
                    predecessor's adeptness at public relations.
                Gould's companion work on Helen Taft, part of the Modern First Ladies series
                    of which he is the editor, introduces readers to a sprightly, strong-willed
                    woman who played  bridge for money, and
                    smoked and drank even after Prohibition, to her husband's dismay. Although
                    Helen Taft previously has been pictured as the power behind the throne, Gould
                    points out that her husband, who valued her counsel highly, was just as
                    ambitious as she. While Helen Taft's stroke in 1909 greatly diminished her
                    plans to expand the role of first lady into one of enhanced social and cultural
                    prominence, Gould offers the first extensive look at her extraordinary efforts
                    to bring acclaimed musicians to the White House. This book shows that she should
                    be remembered for more than simply overseeing the planting of Washington's
                    notable cherry trees.
                Taken together, these histories illuminate the years from 1908 to 1912, when a
                    somewhat ill-starred couple occupied 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. Yet, as Gould
                    notes, Taft exhibited little bitterness when he came in a distant third in the
                    presidential election of 1912 and Wilson emerged victorious, with Roosevelt,
                    running as a third party candidate, coming in second. The press of the day did
                    not view the Taft presidency as a failure and, after these reading these books,
                    the modern reader is likely to have the same opinion. As Gould expressed it,
                    "there was a sense that ... Taft had done his best for his country"
                    (p. 201 in The William Howard Taft Presidency). Taft went on
                    to become chief justice of the United States. One wishes for
                    such civility in politics today.
                MAURINE H. BEASLEY is Professor Emerita of Journalism at the University of
                    Maryland College Park. She is the author of Eleanor Roosevelt:
                        Transitional First Lady (2010).
            
            
                Imprisoned in a Luminous Glare
                    Photography and the African American Freedom Struggle By
                    Leigh Raiford (Chapel Hill: University of
                    North Carolina Press, 2011. Pp. xiii, 293. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $45.00.)
                Leigh Raiford's new book, Imprisoned in a Luminous Glare,
                    is a close examination of the role of the photograph in capturing the history of
                    black social movements in the United States. Raiford's
                    approach focuses on the agency of the photograph and the act of photography, not
                    only in documenting the legacy of racism but also in shaping public cognition of
                    the "black body, the black eye, and black memory" (p. 9). This
                    argument is of particular importance as it locates these three points as sites
                    of political and social resistance within the trajectory of the civil rights
                    struggle in the United States. Raiford cites many resources in
                    her research, but  the influence of Stuart
                    Hall on her thinking cannot go unnoticed. Hall writes about the nation's
                    civil rights movement as a struggle over the rights of representation,
                    controlled by the forces that granted authorship in ascribing meaning to the
                    black body, the black eye, and the black memory. Raiford adapts Hall's
                    theory by adding that until the time of photography, that authorship (or agency)
                    rested with the oppressive forces of the racist white power structure.
                Black Americans were highly conscious of the representative function of the
                    photographic image, as they were a population that was highly misrepresented by
                    that image since its introduction to the United States in the mid-nineteenth
                    century. As Raiford points out, through the black American freedom struggle,
                    images became a means of negating the gaze of popular culture, and of
                    re-authoring the figure, vision, and memory of African Americans in the modern
                    world. The reclamation of the image, as simple as it sounds, is a highly
                    contested and revolutionary act that is inextricable from the visualization of
                    social and political movements of black people in the United
                        States. Definitely, this book is a must-read for my
                    students.
                DEBORAH WILLIS is Professor and Chair of Photography and Imaging at the
                    Tisch School of the Arts at New York University.
            
            
                For All the World to See
                    Visual Culture and the Struggle for Civil Rights By
                    Maurice Berger (New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 2010. Pp. xv, 206.
                    Illustrations, notes, index. $39.95.)
                The premise of Maurice Berger's For All the World to See
                    is that visual culture, particularly mass media such as picture magazines,
                    advertising, television, and motion pictures, was integral to the modern civil
                    rights movement. Not only did visual images document the movement, Berger
                    argues, but they also actively shaped the fight for civil rights through various
                    modes of persuasion, manipulation, or reprimand. While Berger's thesis is
                    not groundbreaking, the book is a solid, synthetic, non-theoretical work that
                    provides an easily digestible thematic history of civil-rights-related African
                    American imagery from approximately the 1930s until the 1970s.
                For All the World to See is a companion book to a traveling
                    exhibition and a website, both jointly organized by the Center for Art, Design
                    and Visual Culture (CADVC) at the University of Maryland Baltimore County (where
                    Berger is a senior research scholar) and the not-yet-open Smithsonian National
                    Museum of African  American History and
                    Culture. While not a catalog, the book includes a broad array of images from the
                    exhibition including advertisements, racist "black memorabilia,"
                    sports collectibles, book covers, photographs, stills from motion pictures and
                    television, and an occasional work of fine art. Much of the imagery is drawn
                    from the collection of the Civil Rights Archive at CADVC, which Berger helped to
                    create.
                The primary strength of For All the World to See is its attempt
                    to understand the simultaneity and interconnectivity of a range of aspects of
                    civil rights visual culture. By considering many different kinds of images,
                    Berger reinforces the notion that change was being wrought on many levels-from
                    nationally circulated African American magazines like Ebony
                    and Jet to affiliate television stations that broadcast
                    extremely local African American talk shows including Like It
                        Is, still running on WABC in New York City;
                    from angry cartoons by Emory Douglas in the Black Panther
                    newspaper to family snapshots taken by African Americans all over the
                            United
                            States. The title For All the World
                        to See, a paraphrase of Mamie Till Mobley's statement, "Let
                    the world see what I've seen" (p. 101), made to a mortician who
                    offered to make up the face of her slain son, Emmett Till, emphasizes the true
                    power that civil rights images could wield.
                However, the topic of the book is an enormous one, and thus its strength also
                    becomes its weakness. For All the World to See includes an
                    eclectic and sometimes uneven group of images. For example, in an attempt to
                    provide context for the more radical visual culture produced at the height of
                    the movement, Berger provides an opening chapter that discusses a smattering of
                    stereotyped black imagery. This is well-worn territory that might have been
                    summarized in order to leave room for a more thorough examination of
                    lesser-known objects such as sports memorabilia (including a Jackie Robinson toy
                    bank) or the lunchbox collectible depicting Diahann Carroll, produced to promote
                    the NBC television show Julia. In addition, Berger's
                    discussion of images and objects can be exasperatingly thin. Examples include
                    the bizarre racist shirt from the early 1960s made of material apparently
                    printed with images depicting primitive Africans (cannibals?) that is barely
                    explored in the text and a discussion of Rupert Garcia's poster No More O' This Shit (1969) that seems entirely oblivious
                    to the fact that the character in the picture is an appropriation of Rastus, the
                    Cream of Wheat advertising icon. Despite such shortcomings, For All
                        the World to See presents an excellent general introduction to the
                    primacy of images during the modern civil rights movement.
                ELLEN DAUGHERTY is Associate Professor of Art History at the Memphis College
                    of Art in Memphis, Tennessee.  She is the author of the recent article
                    "Negotiating the Veil: Tuskegee's Booker T Washington
                        Monument," in the journal American Art.
            
            
                The American College Town
                    By Blake Gumprecht (Amherst:
                    University of Massachusetts Press, 2009. Pp. 468. Illustrations, index.
                    Paperbound, $28.95.)
                Geographer Blake Gumprecht's The American College Town is
                    a curious blend of history, social science, and valentine. A native of
                            Wilmington, Delaware,
                    Gumprecht recalls that he spent a substantial part of his youth wandering the
                    streets of nearby Newark, as well as the lawns and
                    corridors of Newark's principal institution, the
                    University of Delaware. In later years Gumprecht fell into the nomadic existence
                    characteristic of many professors-in-the-making, spending time in, among other
                    university communities, Lawrence, Kansas,
                    and Norman, Oklahoma. One
                    learns of this personal history by reading Gumprecht's intently
                    autobiographical preface. When Gumprecht rolls out his more scholarly narrative
                    in chapter one, this reader was struck by the amorphousness of the analytical
                    enterprise: "Much of what makes college towns unusual and interesting
                    cannot be quantified in any meaningful way" (p. 4).
                But as a resolute social scientist, Gumprecht does indeed build The
                        American College Town on a research design: using a student population
                    threshold of 20 percent of the total local population and excluding cities with
                    a population in excess of 350,000, he collected data on 60 of 305 so-defined
                    college towns across the United States (among them,
                            Bloomington and Greencastle, Indiana). In
                    practice, eight of the ten chapters in The American College
                        Town are thematically focused case studies ("the campus as public
                    space," "stadium culture," "town vs. gown," and so on).
                    Interestingly, the eight academic institutions profiled in these chapters-the
                    University of Oklahoma, Cornell University, Kansas State University, the
                    University of California Davis, the University of Georgia, Auburn University,
                    the University of Michigan, and the University of Delaware-include not a single
                    college, that is, if one accepts the characteristic definition of colleges as
                    smaller institutions focused on undergraduate training. Nor-in large part due to
                    the size of the universities that Gumprecht studies-does he really engage with
                    any towns. Norman, Ithaca,
                            Manhattan, Davis,
                            Athens, Auburn,
                            Ann
                            Arbor, and Newark are all
                    small cities.
                Thus Gumprecht, whose animating purpose is as attributable to nostalgia as it is
                    to a clear analytical  program, has written
                    a book dominated by the sort of university community many find to be essentially
                    uncaptivating. Nevertheless, this volume has its charms. Several of
                    Gumprecht's historical narratives are fascinating, such as his account of
                    successive University of Oklahoma presidents' efforts to use campus
                    physical improvements as a means to win public approbation no less than state
                    legislative appropriation. Equally interesting is his discussion of the
                    residential development of Ithaca, New
                        York, serving, respectively, fraternities and
                    sororities, "unaffiliated" students, and faculty. In other instances,
                    such as his protracted "on the one hand, but on the other hand"
                    assessment of high-tech business development in Ann
                        Arbor, Michigan,
                    Gumprecht loses track of his main analytical thread, i.e., the continuities
                    linking otherwise disparate university communities. Indeed, this tale of eight
                    small university cities ultimately leaves one to wonder: Aren't these
                    places fully as different from one another as any other eight municipalities
                    across the United
                            States?
                There is, however, a sure market for The American College Town
                    in the group of communities receiving in-depth, and frequently affectionate,
                    attention from the author. As a rule, Gumprecht's prose is easy to digest,
                    and on many occasions his fact-finding turns up marvelous anecdotes, such as the
                            Norman, Oklahoma, tale
                    reputing that Frank Lloyd Wright- on a tour of the OU campus characterized the
                    predominant architectural style as Cherokee Gothic.
                LARRY BENNETT teaches in the political science department at DePaul
                    University. His most recent book is The Third City: Chicago and
                        American Urbanism (2010).
            
            
                Capitalizing on Change
                    A Social Historyof Business By Stanley Buder
                            (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina
                    Press, 2009. Pp. x, 541. Illustrations,photographs, notes, index.
                    $45.00.)
                In the introduction to this sweeping survey of and fulsome ode to American-style
                    capitalism, Stanley Buder argues that "business history is best served by
                    being placed in a broad context that considers social as well as economic
                    developments, and yet this has rarely been done." This task he promises to
                    undertake in his three-part exploration of the "ever-changing social
                    contract of business with the American polity" (pp. 4, 6). Buder also
                    assures his readers that he will move well beyond the confines of earlier
                    entrepreneurial and institutional approaches to business history.
                
                Few who have labored in the social and cultural history of business over the past
                    four decades would dispute the need for a new synthesis of business history.
                    Unfortunately, they will not find it in the pages that follow Buder's
                    introductory chapter. Indeed, Capitalizing on Change fails to
                    appreciate the wealth of scholarship produced over the last forty years, those
                    many monographs that move beyond earlier models and embrace broader social
                    contexts. Instead, Buder presents a fairly traditional narrative of American
                    business and political history, one that simply revisits most of the same
                    entrepreneurial figures, institutional changes, and political signposts
                    identified in earlier surveys, including those found in the more nuanced,
                    synthetic works of Robert Heilbroner, and Mansel Blackford and Austin Kerr.
                    Buder also seems oblivious to Thomas Cochran's famous clarion calls
                    (especially his 1976 Business in American Life) for deeper
                    explorations of American business as a significant social institution on par
                    with the family, religion, and education, and of the ways in which American
                    assumptions about business have shaped cultural values and power relationships
                    over time. Indeed, Buder only mentions Cochran in passing (p. 221), where he
                    also finally acknowledges Olivier Zunz, just one among many scholars over the
                    past four decades who have worked to link business institutions with social
                    developments, labor/social problems, and the intricate webs of
                    government-business-power relations. Business as social history has traveled in
                    many exciting directions, including into works that seek to address the everyday
                    realities of the vast majority of Americans; that employ bottom-up strategies to
                    understand the evolving relationship between American government, business,
                    labor, and society; and that place American developments within a much broader
                    global context. Unfortunately, Buder seems to have read few if any of these
                    works, evidenced by endnotes that rarely mention articles and books published
                    after 1980.
                Rather than synthesizing significant work in new business history, Buder's
                    book simply reinforces the standard tropes and myths associated with the
                    "self-made" entrepreneur (with the usual suspects-Carnegie,
                    Rockefeller, Vanderbilt, and others-taking center stage), while also continuing
                    to hail the United
                            States as an exceptional nation of white men who
                    triumphed through grit and hard work. In this book, we learn nothing about the
                    engendering of business, about race and the economy, about business and the
                    environment; we learn precious little about the role of the government in
                    pre-World War II America.
                Even a passing glance at recent literature would have forced Buder to revisit his
                    arguments about the self-made American and the central myths of American
                    exceptionalism and its attendant meritocracy, or about the connection between
                    business success  and larger cultural,
                    political, and social aspirations and networks. A walk through journals devoted
                    to business and social history over the past forty years reveals a host of
                    business successes and failures, among people from various
                    ethnic, racial, and gender groups who contributed to and challenged the American
                    business model over time, who created larger connections between business, the
                    government, consumption patterns, and everyday life. Moreover, Buder does not
                    engage the gale-force winds that have accompanied American entrepreneurship and
                    global capitalism since infancy, including economic booms and busts, credit
                    dependency, planned obsolescence, and widening disparities in wealth.
                    Incredibly, he claims that the speculative fever of the 1920s emerged as the
                    first time in history when the American people lived beyond their means (p.
                    236), that Cold War policies never sought to advance American economic goals and
                    that the United
                            States fostered "free trade" solely to
                    help others (pp. 392-94), and that "thriving on chaos" emerged for the
                    first time in the 1990s (p. 365).
                Although Buder's book provides an updated survey of American business
                    history, one that pays welcome attention to the post-1970s era, we still need a
                    new synthesis that actually embraces the social history of business from the
                    colonial era forward.
                JOCELYN WILLS is Associate Professor of History at Brooklyn College, City
                    University of New York. She is the author of Boosters, Hustlers,
                        and Speculators: Entrepreneurial Culture and the Rise of Minneapolis and St.
                        Paul, 1849-1883 (2005).
            
        
        
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
        
    
