
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 30, Issue 1, pages 1-115. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:30+issue:1+year:1934&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Northwest: Gift or Conquest?∗
            
            By JAMES ALTON JAMES
            
            With the surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown, October, 19, 1781, the Revolution east of the mountains
                    was really at an end. Instructions issued to Sir Guy Carleton as he was setting out to take command
                    in America contain evidence of this fact. He was directed to transfer the garrison at 
                        New York
                     to 
                        Halifax
                     and the garrisons at 
                        Charleston
                     and Savannah were to be withdrawn.
            But during the last months of 1781 and for a year thereafter, control over the West was still in the
                    balance. Early in December, the numerous recommendations from Western officials were taken up by the
                    legislature of 
                        Virginia
                    . While the members were fully aware of the critical situation, they were powerless to
                    assume the burdens of an offensive warfare with an empty treasury and with paper money depreciated
                    to the ratio of 1,000 to I.1 Legislative regulations and the imposition of
                    additional taxes were resorted to with the hope of restoring lost credit. But contributions for the
                    support of the army under General Nathaniel 
                        Greene
                     and the campaign against Cornwallis had drained the state of its resources. The
                    extended territory from which collections were to be made rendered immediate relief through taxation
                    well-night impossible. Governor Benjamin Harrison was forced to answer the appeal of General 
                        Greene
                     for relief as follows: "The credit of the State is lost and we have not a
                    shilling in the Treasury. The powers formerly given to embody and inarch the militia of the State
                    are no longer continued to us, 
                  
                     ∗ This paper was read at the Saturday Afternoon Session of
                            the Annual Indiana History Conference which was held at the Claypool Hotel in 
                                Indianapolis
                             on Dec. 8-9, 1933.
                  
                     1 Draper Mss., 51J98.
               
                     nor can we impress what may be necessary for you or even for
                    ourselves. Invasion has nearly drained us of our Stock of Provisions and Refreshments of all kinds
                    necessary for an army. As this is not an exaggerated but a true state of our situation I leave you
                    to judge whether any great Dependance can for the present be placed on this State."2
            
            In council with his officers and the three 
                        Kentucky County
                     lieutenants early in September, Clark still clung to his objective to march against the
                    Indians by way of the 
                        Wabash
                     or the Miami and then to 
                        Detroit
                    . While insisting upon the maintenance of the garrison at the Falls, they likewise
                    recommended that a fort should be built at the mouth of the 
                        Kentucky
                    , and urged the assembling of a strong force for the reduction of 
                        Detroit
                     in the spring. Clark still advocated an expedition up the 
                        Wabash
                     against the Indian tribes for it was among them that British emissaries seemed to be
                    most strongly intrenched. He saw in such a move the capture of 
                        Detroit
                     and the possession of Lake 
                        Erie
                    ; control of the savages and preservation of the 
                        Kentucky
                     settlements; retention of power over the 
                        Illinois
                    , both Spanish and American; and ultimate influence on the terms of peace.3 It seems probable that he had in his possession the message from Colonel Arthur 
                        Campbell
                    , written a month earlier, in which he stated that peace might be expected within a few
                    months. This message concludes with language strikingly resembling that of Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     in the peace preliminaries, seven and a half months later: "I wish we could
                    carry our arms to the banks of Lake 
                        Erie
                    , before a cessation would take place; to attempt it farther, might be risking too much.
                    For 
                        Canada
                     confined to its ancient limits may serve our present turn: altho' every true
                    American must acknowledge the advantages that would accrue, could 
                        Canada
                     be added to the Union."4
            
            During the fall and winter, British leaders renewed their efforts to gain control of all the
                    northwestern tribes. Clark's preparations, his evasive answers to their inquiries and
                    messages to the enemy had caused more than one-half of the tribes to make overtures for peace.5 Typical of these reports was 
                  
                     2Harrison Letter Book, 1781, 32. Jan. 21, 1782.
                  
                     3 Clark to Governor Thomas Nelson, Oct. 1, 1781, in George Rogers Clark Papers, 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Historical Collections, III, 605-608.
                  
                     4 Col. Arthur 
                                Campbell
                             to Clark, Sept. 3, 1781, in Clark Papers. ibid., 695. Colonel 
                                Campbell
                             was stationed at 
                                Washington
                            , Pa.
                  
                     5 Shane Papers, in Draper Mss., XVI, 37.
               
                     one sent to the court at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , early in December, calling for a thorough enforcement of the laws. Peace, Clark said,
                    was shortly to be expected since Cornwallis with his entire army had surrendered and 
                        Clinton
                     had lost 3,000 men. "
                        Charleston
                    ," he declared, "is, besieged and I think by this time it has
                    surrendered with all the English troops; so that there will scarcely remain an Englishman on the
                    continent except those who are prisoners."6
            
            Late in February, 1782, chiefs of the Shawnee, Wyandot, Delawares, and ten other tribes were brought
                    to 
                        Detroit
                    . They were instructed to make no attack until towards spring. As a feint, small parties
                    were sent forward to steal horses and commit minor depredations, in order to put settlers off their
                    guard until the coming of the main expedition, which was to capture Fort Nelson and the other posts
                    and at a single blow lay waste the whole frontier. As expressed by Clark, "the designs of
                    the 
                        Detroit
                     Gentry is reduced to a certainty. They have their eye on this and the Spanish 
                        Illinois
                    ."7 Promise for the success of such a plan was greater
                    because of the arrival at 
                        Detroit
                     of Rocheblave, Lamothe, and other captured leaders who were all anxious to retrieve
                    their former disasters by recapturing the 
                        Illinois
                     country and 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            Fully aware that the task was one of the most difficult he had undertaken, Clark pushed his
                    preparations vigorously for foiling this attack which he was assured would be directed against Fort
                    Nelson. "If we should be so fortunate as to repel this invasion without too great a loss to
                    ourselves," he wrote while strengthening the various means of defense, "the
                    Indians will all scatter to their different countries and give a fair opportunity for a valuable
                    stroke to be made among them."
            Assuming a portion of the expense himself, Clark gave special attention to the construction of four
                    armed galleys with the design of using them to control navigation at the mouth of the 
                        Ohio
                    . By the end of May, one of these boats with a seventy-three foot keel was completed.
                    When fully equipped, it was to be manned with 110 men and was to carry a six 
                  
                     6
                            
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer Collections, X, 548.
                  
                     7 Clark to Governor Benjamin Harrison, May 2, 1782, in Clark Papers, 
                                    Illinois
                                 Historical Collections, XIX, 64.
               
                     pounder, two fours and a two pounder. Obstacles in carrying out
                    his plans were continuous.
            Clark's preparations had in the usual manner been magnified by British leaders.
                            
                  Kaskaskia, Vincennes, Piqua
                had familiarized
                    them with his penchant for the seemingly impossible. It was reported that he was about to march with
                    a large army for the capture of 
                        Detroit
                    . To add to their alarm, the first intelligence reached them, in early April, of the
                    surrender of Cornwallis. It was rumored, also, that the Iroquois were about to make peace with the
                    Americans. There was no hope for assistance from 
                        Montreal
                     since British authorities were aware that any troops to be spared would be needed for
                    the defense of 
                        Clinton
                     at 
                        New York
                    . General Haldimand, anticipating the necessity of holding 
                        Detroit
                    , in the event of peace, ordered the collection of sufficient provisions to enable the
                    garrison to withstand a formidable assault. Immense treasure was granted the Indians by officials
                    and discipline was relaxed, for as stated: "Indians must be used to prevent the inroads of
                    the Virginians and they must be delicately managed to prevent their favoring those rebels."
            In early June, 1782, occurred the defeat of Colonel William Crawford, friend of 
                        Washington
                    , who was advancing from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     at the head of 480 mounted men against the Wyandot and Shawnee villages on the Sandusky
                    River. So leisurely had they advanced that upon arrival at the first of the towns, spies having
                    dogged their footsteps, they were confronted with a force of rangers, volunteers and Indians
                    hurriedly brought to the defense by Captain William Caldwell. After a two days battle, the
                    Americans, under the mistaken impression that the enemy was greatly superior in numbers, began a
                    retreat which ended in hopeless confusion. Among the fifty men killed or missing was Colonel
                    Crawford. He, with others, was put to death with the extreme of torture.8
            
            By the middle of August, Captains 
                        Caldwell
                     and McKee with a force of 300 Indians and rangers, eluding the vigilance of John Todd,
                    succeeded in crossing the 
                        Ohio
                     and bringing on the disaster at the Blue Licks.9 Todd lost his life
                    in this ill-starred affair. Other leaders, in petitioning Governor Harrison, 
                  
                     8 The Delawares justified their fiendish performances as a retaliation
                            for the cruelties their relatives had undergone at the hands of backwoodsmen in the Moravian
                            Massacre. See James A. James, Life of George Rogers Clark (
                                Chicago
                            , 1928), 236, 264.
                  
                     9 For this battle consult, ibid., 268-275.
               
                     strove to shift the blame to Clark for his failure to build other
                    fortified posts in addition to Fort Nelson. Replying to a rebuke from the Governor, Clark maintained
                    that the completion of this fort had saved the Western country, and that the disaster of the Blue
                    Licks was due to the conduct "extremely reprehensible" of leaders who were
                    attempting to offset, their former neglect of duty.
            Early in September, 
                        Caldwell
                     was again at the upper Sandusky where he awaited the coming of a rumored expedition
                    from Fort Pitt. 
                        Detroit
                     officials, anticipating that he would be forced to retreat before so formidable an
                    enemy and that the Shawnee would be unable to withstand an attack by Clark, prepared a second line
                    of defense which would cover the retreat. As usual, Major De Peyster overcome with fear at the rumor
                    of the approach of the enemy, was ready to sacrifice his Indian allies. He wrote Captain McKee as
                    follows: "By the accounts of their force, in the present sickly state of the Rangers, and
                    the Indians being so much distressed, I fear you will be obliged to retreat at least until you are
                    joined by the Miamies. I have sent all the Indians I could muster, particularly the Ottawas of the
                    Miami River…. You must be sensible that my soldiers are little acquainted with wood
                    fighting and ill equipped for it withall. I have therefore only ordered them to take post where they
                    can secure ammunition and provisions and support you in case you are obliged to retreat, which I
                    hope will still not be the case."10
            
            Once more, using tactics now made familiar to us by Marshal Foch, a grand attack was to be launched
                    following a desperate defensive. Clark was to attack the Shawnee strongholds. General Irvine was to
                    advance from Fort Pitt against Sandusky. Nine hundred men were to be sent also against the Genesee
                    towns.
            Kentuckians responded quickly to Clark's call for a retaliatory expedition. Parched meal and
                    buffalo beef were readily collected but other supplies were procured with difficulty. The credit of
                    the state was worthless and creditors who had already advanced all of their property were then
                    beseeching Clark to aid them in adjusting their claims. Among them was Pollock whose agents had
                    gained but slight consideration from 
                        Virginia
                    .
            
               
                  10 Oct. 1, 1782. In 
                     
                                Michigan
                             Pioneer Collections, X, 651.
            
            
            "I am heartily sorry that you should meet with such disappointments in the settlement of
                    your accounts," Clark writes Pollock. "I have already taken every step in my power
                    to get the Creditors of the State paid to no effect….
            "Except what the state owes me am not worth, a Spanish dollar, I wish it was in my power to
                    follow your proposition to step forth and save my country from the disgrace that is likely to fall
                    on her. If you could point out the means nothing would give me such pleasure, and fully recompense
                    all the uneasiness I have suffr'd on account of those persons. Many whom I know have
                    advanced on the faith of Government."11 Clark finally exchanged 3,500
                    acres of his own land for the flour necessary for the expedition.
            On November 4, 1782, at the head of 1,050 mounted men, he set out from the mouth of the Licking for 
                        Chillicothe
                    , the Shawnee stronghold. During a march of six days, rigid discipline was maintained. A
                    plan of attack in minute detail had been worked out by Clark. Three miles from the town, Colonel
                    Floyd was dispatched with 300 men to make the assault. His approach was discovered and the
                    inhabitants, warned by the alarm cry, made good their escape. 
                        Chillicothe
                     and five other Shawnee villages were burned and great quantities of corn and other
                    provisions were destroyed. Colonel Logan with a detachment of 150 men captured the British trading
                    post at the head of the Miami and burned such stores as they were unable to carry away with them.
                    After vainly attempting, for four days, to bring on a general engagement, Clark returned with his
                    troops to the mouth of the Licking where the divisions separated.
            By this blow, virtually the last during the Revolution, Clark had not only saved the frontier
                    settlements from danger of attack but he had once more offset the designs of British authorities to
                    bring about a union of the northwestern and southwestern tribes. This plan was closely akin to that
                    of 1780 and was well calculated to win support from the Indian chiefs, A large force from 
                        Detroit
                     was to advance against Fort Pitt, and after taking that post was to capture the 
                        Illinois
                     country.12 In this manner, Kentuckians, it was said, would be
                    driven across the mountains and the "other inhabitants into the sea."
            
               
                  11 Oct. 26, 1782. In Clark Paws, 
                                Illinois
                             Historical Collections, XIX, 144.
               
                  12 Feb. 2, 1783. In ibid., 189.
            
            
            Clark had again carried out his favorite policy of convincing "the Indians that they were
                    inferior to us, that the British assertions of our weakness was false, and that we could at all
                    times penetrate into their Country at pleasure." The red men were panic-stricken. Their
                    winter supplies were destroyed. The policy of retrenchment on the part of British officials, cut
                    down the quota of presents. As interpreted by the Indians, this was a step towards their complete
                    abandonment. Further demands by them for protection from 
                        Detroit
                     were refused.
            From this review of events up to the close of 1782, it is seen that Clark had extended his radius of
                    menace towards 
                        Detroit
                     and had thrown the enemy into confusion. Sickness still pervaded the ranks of the
                    rangers. Regulars, it was claimed, were not suitable nor were they equipped for winter campaigning.
                    Said Major De Peyster: "The few Rangers of the Post prevents my doing anything essential
                    for the relief of the Indian villages, it is therefore to be hoped that when the enemy have done all
                    the mischief possible they will retire."13 He was aware that the road
                    to 
                        Detroit
                     was open and fully expected an attack would be made by the Americans in the spring.
                    Indian leaders were again ordered to act solely on the defensive. In demanding reinforcements, De
                    Peyster declared: "Light troops are therefore what we want and believe me there will be
                    amusement for a good number of them the ensuing campaign without acting on the offensive."
                    So effectively had Clark carried out his policy of intimidating the Indians, that, as stated by
                    Boone: "The spirits of the Indians were damped, their connexions dissolved, their armies
                    scattered and a future invasion entirely out of their power."14
            
            Messengers sent by General Irvine informed Clark that the expedition against Sandusky was assured. As
                    they were about to set out from Fort McIntosh, the place of rendezvous, letters were received from
                    the Continental Secretary of War countermanding the order. 
                        Washington
                     had been assured, on British authority, that all hostilities were suspended and that
                    the Indians were directed to commit no further depredations. Nevertheless, reports were still sent
                    out by Irvine that he was 
                  
                     13 Major De Peyster to General Haldimand, Nov. 21, 1782, in 
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer Cob lections, XI, 322.
                  
                     14 Testimony of Daniel 
                                Boone
                             before a Committee of Investigation, Dec. 20, 1787. State Department Mas.,
                            Bureau of Indexes and Archives.
               
                     about to march with a large force. These were calculated to
                    deceive the Wyandot and prevent their cooperation with the Shawnee against Clark.
            Combatant and non-combatant alike at 
                        Detroit
                     and all the other posts awaited the passing of winter with anxious foreboding. British
                    officials fully expected the coming of the Americans, with the design of pushing their frontier-line
                    in the Northwest forward as far as possible, and thus, in the event of peace, of securing control of
                    the fur trade.15
            
            Clark's threats to march against other unfriendly tribes as he had against the Shawnee
                    increased the turmoil among the Indians. Once more, he had been able to procure supplies amounting
                    to $1750 with an order drawn on Pollock. He proposed enlisting a force of 1,500 troops
                    which was to march against the Indian stronghold at the head of the 
                        Wabash
                    . In this way, he would convince the Indians that their very existence depended upon
                    preserving peace with the Americans. A garrison of regular troops was to be stationed at 
                        Vincennes
                     with supplies sufficient to equip an army which might be brought together at any time
                    for the purpose of penetrating "into any Quarter of the Enemy's Country at
                    Pleasure." No further effort was made to carry out these plans, for by the middle of April
                    (1783), official announcement of peace preliminaries had reached the frontier. By the terms of the
                    definitive treaty of peace, concluded in 
                        Paris
                    , September 3, 1783, the Old Northwest was ceded to the 
                        United States
                    .16
            
            The question has long been a mooted one as to how far Clark was in military control of the Northwest
                    and what effect his achievements had in winning this great empire for the 
                        United States
                    . Two views have been advanced.
            Ten months preceding Clark's final drivel against the Shawnee, an agent of Pollock, in
                    presenting his claims for relief before the Governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , referring to the great expense incident to carrying on war in the West and
                    Pollock's participation therein, declared: "But great as they (expenses) are, yet
                    greater are the benefits you have and will derive from them. You have, Sir, taken possession, and I
                    hope secured the remotest part of your territorial Claim, and perhaps the 
                  
                     15
                            
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer Collections, XI, 351.
                  
                     16 Included the present states of 
                                Ohio
                            , Indiana, 
                        Illinois, Michigan
                      and 
                                Wisconsin
                            . For the events leading up to the definitive treaty and the terms agreed upon,
                            consult Edward Channing, History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , III, 346-373.
               
                     Finest Country on Earth. You have made yourselves respectable
                    among the Indians of that Country, and secured their friendship. You have prevented the British and
                    their Indian allies from taking possession of that Country and thereby opened and secured a
                    communication to 
                        New Orleans
                     where your back Settlers on the 
                        Ohio
                     will always meet with a friendly reception and a good market for their Produce. And you
                    have, Sir, in all human probability prevented the British of 
                        Detroit
                     and their Indians from joining Lord Cornwallis, while he was in the full career of a
                    successful invader, over-running this Country. Such a junction, Sir, at that Time, would have been
                    fatal to 
                        Virginia
                    ."17
            
            This view was advanced in a letter by Governor Harrison to Clark in which he states, that since an
                    offensive war against the Northwestern Indians has been given up, Clark's services in that
                    region will no longer be necessary. "But", he added, "before I take leave
                    of you, I feel myself called on in the most forcible manner to return my thanks and those of my
                    council for the very great and singular services you have rendered your Country, in wresting so
                    great and valuable a territory out of the hands of the British Enemy, repelling the attacks of their
                    savage allies, and carrying on successful war in the heart of their country."18
            
            Two of the three commissioners who were selected to adjust the claims of 
                        Virginia
                     against the 
                        United States
                     for debts contracted by Pollock and others in carrying on the Revolution in the West,
                    confirmed this view.19 "It appears to me," David Henley
                    writes, "from the knowledge I have of the 
                        Illinois
                     account and papers… that your [Pollock's] exertions in behalf of
                    General Clark and the troops under his command, was a means of enabling him to hold the country and
                    support his army." William Heth in a letter to Pollock declared: "There is no
                    circumstance of which I am more convinced than that the conquest of the 
                        Illinois
                     country could not have been maintained by Virginia and that consequently that it would
                    not now form a part of the 
                        United States
                     if it had not been for your assistance and very liberal advances."20
            
            
               
                  17 Daniel Clark to Governor Benjamin Harrison, Jan. 17, 1782, in Calendar of 
                                Virginia State
                             Pagers, III, 25-29.
               
                  18 July 2, 1788.
               
                  19 The three commissioners were: William Heth, representing 
                            Virginia
                        : John Pierce, representing the 
                            United States
                        : and David Henley, who was selected as the third commissioner.
               
                  20 William Heth to Oliver Pollock, April 2, 1782. Printed pamphlet in 
                            Virginia State
                         Archives.
            
            
            In speaking of the sacrifice of his fortune and the debts he had contracted "for the support
                    of the service," Pollock asserts: "Having no other person in that Quarter of their
                    Country to Supply their forces, the Troops must [have] quit the Country which would now be in
                    possession of the British or the Spanish Monarck."21 The testimony of
                    Clark himself confirms this argument, when he says: "the service Mr. Pollock rendered upon
                    all occasions in paying those bills, I considered at the time and now to be one of the happy
                    circumstances that enabled me to keep possession of that Country."22
            
            But John Pierce who represented the 
                        United States
                     in the adjustment of the claims of 
                        Virginia
                     declared that by leaving the territory with his
                    forces, Clark relinquished the defense of it and "he cannot, I think be
                    said to have maintained or defended a country beyond him in which he retained no garrison and from
                    which he was at such a distance as to afford no immediate assistance."23
            
            Divergent views have been advanced likewise by historians. Theodore Roosevelt declares: "We
                    were in reality given nothing more than we had by our own prowess gained; the inference is strong
                    that we got what we did get only because we had won and held it."24
            
            Arguments in support of the opposing view may be summarized as follows: "The summer of 1779
                    marked the zenith of 
                        Virginia
                    's power north of the 
                        Ohio
                    ; from that date there was a steady decline…. For a year more, there were a
                    score of soldiers in those posts, acting as scouts; but even these were recalled in the following
                    winter, and the villages were left to shift for themselves…. 
                        Virginia
                     had really only weakened the hold of the mother country on a small corner of the
                    disputed territory."25 "The basis for the success 
                  
                     21 July 16, 1782. Executive Communications to the 
                                    Virginia
                                 Assembly, Oct. 21-Dec. 28, 1782, in 
                                Virginia State
                             Archives.
                  
                     22 July 2, 1785. Clark Mss. in 
                                Virginia State
                             Archives.
                  
                     23 Report of Commissioners.
                  
                     24 Theodore Roosevelt, The Winning of the West, II,
                            381. For a similar view consult Reuben Gold Thwaites, How George Roams Clark
                                won the Northwest, 72, and Claude H. Van Tyne, The American
                                Revolutions (American Nation, IX), 284.
                  
                     25 Clarence W. Alvord, "
                                Virginia
                             and the West," in 
                        Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review, III, 54-36. Alvord says: "Most western writers anxious
                            to magnify their own region, have been inclined to give Clark the credit of securing for the 
                                United States
                             this important acquisition: the easterners have had too little information on
                            the subject to express an authoritive opinion, but have allowed their skepticism to become
                            evident…. It is possible that the American Commissioners may have felt that their
                            position in claiming the West for the new republic was somewhat strengthened by the
                            knowledge of the success of Clark, but it is unbelievable that they would have demanded
                            less, even had he failed, since the first boundaries proposed by Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                             included all 
                                Canada
                             as well as the West….
               
                     of American diplomacy," Dr. Alvord continues,
                    "had been laid, not by the victory of the arms of 
                        Virginia
                    , not through the boldness of George Rogers Clark in winning the Old Northwest for the 
                        United States
                    , but in the liberal principles held by a British statesman."26
            
            In keeping with this view, the argument has also been advanced that Lord Shelburne had probably never
                    heard of Clark "and his operations or would have been influenced by them if he
                        had."27 But the testimony of 
                        Hamilton
                    , who had been captured at 
                        Vincennes
                    , disproves this statement: "In the month of June, 1781, I returned to 
                        England
                    . Lord Sackville, Mr. Ellis, and finally the Earl of Shelburne had the condescension to
                    attend to my situation, and from their favor and protection am happy to think they did not attribute
                    my failure to negligence or want of zeal for His Majesty's Service."28
            
            The fact that Clark concentrated his available force at Fort Nelson after 1779 does not prove that he
                    relinquished his hold on the Northwest. His own testimony warrants another conclusion for he wrote:
                    "I see but one probable method of maintaining our authority in the 
                        Illinois
                     which is this by evacuating our present posts and let our whole force center at or near
                    the mouth of the 
                        Ohio
                    ."29 The results of his campaigns of 1780, and 1782
                    demonstrate his wisdom in selecting Fort Nelson as his base for operations. In his appeal to the 
                        Virginia
                     Commissioners for assistance in organizing an army which should by the summer of 1783
                    "penetrate to the head of the 
                        Wabash
                    ," he claimed that 
                        Virginia
                     was in control of the territory which had been conquered. His expression was:
                    "The 
                        Illinois
                     Settlements like to be lost to the State through inattention that will nearly, double
                    the Enemy."30 Judged by the statement of a British leader, the 
                        Illinois
                     country was under the control of Clark in April of the previous year. "If the
                    expedition succeeds in taking the 
                        Illinois
                    ," Lamothe writes in submitting his plan of operation, "then the small
                    army will embark & go to reduce the Post of St 
                        Vincennes
                     & continue its route to come 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 38. The Earl of Shelburne was the British prime minister. It was he
                            who defined the final terms of settlement for Great Britain.
                  
                     27 Solon J. Buck, in 
                        
                                    Minnesota
                                 Historical Quarterly, X, 65.
                  
                     28 Draper Mss., 45J69.
                  
                     29 The reference is to the concentration at Fort Jefferson. The same
                            argument obtained relative to Fort Nelson.
                  
                     30 Feb. 25, 1783, in Clark Papers, 
                                    Illinois
                                 Historical Collections, XIX, 204.
               
                     to 
                        Detroit
                     by the Wabache."31 Plans for the campaign to be carried
                    out by the British in the spring of 1783, comprehended, as we have seen," an expedition
                    against Fort Pitt, the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     and thence to the 
                        Illinois
                    ."32
            
            Fort Nelson was, as Clark wrote on a number of occasions, the key to the western country. This was
                    well known to the British. They were aware that it dominated trade on the 
                        Ohio
                     and that it was the center for operations against 
                        Detroit
                    . But at no time were they able to capture it. From this base, it was possible for Clark
                    to reach 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Kaskaskia
                     in a much shorter time than it could have been accomplished by the British from 
                        Detroit
                    . The report of any advance by the enemy was quickly imparted to Clark, Moreover,
                    warriors of the tribes on the Miami and the 
                        Wabash
                    , chief dependence of the British, could not be induced to engage in any expedition
                    which would leave their villages exposed to attack by an enemy so readily brought against them.
            After a review of these facts, I again state, in answer to the criticism of my use of the expression
                    "conquered territory," that Clark was really in military control of the greater
                    part of the Northwest when negotiations for peace were begun.
            The American commissioners could have had no doubt on this point. Was it not the foundation for the
                    demand that the Great Lakes and the 
                        Mississippi
                     were to constitute the boundaries? Indisputable right to this territory had been
                    asserted as an offset to any Spanish claims. American ministers at 
                        Versailles
                     and Madrid were informed through a letter prepared by a committee of Congress
                    "that if a right to the said territory depended on the conquests of the British posts
                    within it, the 
                        United States
                     have already a more extensive claim to it than 
                        Spain
                     can acquire, having, by the success of their arms, obtained possession of all the
                    important posts and settlements on the 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Wabash
                    , rescued the inhabitants from British domination and established civil government in
                    its proper form over them."33 In fact the Spanish Governor at 
                        St. Louis
                     in December, 1780, defined the status of these inhabitants as subjects of the 
                        United States
                     by right of conquest.
            
               
                  31 Lamothe was then (April 24, 1782) at 
                            Detroit
                        . 
                     
                                Michigan
                             Pioneer Collections, X, 571.
               
                  32 Feb. 2, 1783, in Clark Papers, 
                                Illinois
                             Historical Collections, XIX, 189.
               
                  33 Oct. 17, 1780. See American State Papers, Foreign
                            Relations, VI, 868. The claim of 
                            Spain
                         was based on the so-called 
                            St. Joseph
                         conquest of 1781.
            
            
            That this claim constituted the background for the attitude of the American commissioners in 
                        Paris
                     is definitely confirmed by the correspondence of John Jay. In a letter to Robert R.
                    Livingston, November 17, 1782, two weeks before the signing of the peace preliminaries, Jay referred
                    to the proposed territorial claim of 
                        Spain
                     as defined by a line extending from the "confluence of the Kanawha with the 
                        Ohio
                    , thence round the western shores of Lakes 
                        Erie
                     and Huron, and then round Lake 
                        Michigan
                     to Lake Superior." This suggested boundary, likewise approved by the French
                    representative, was declared to be "utterly inadmissable" by Jay. "Dr.
                    Franklin joined with me," he wrote, "in pointing out the extravagance of this
                    line; and I must do him the justice to say that in all his letters to me, and in all his
                    conversations with me respecting our western extent, he has invariably declared it to be his opinion
                    that we should insist upon the 
                        Mississippi
                     as our western boundary."34
                    
                        Franklin
                    , beyond question, knew of the military accomplishments of Clark, and it may be inferred
                    that he gave this information to the other commissioners.35
            
            Any claim by Great Britain to the territory had been disposed of in the report of a special committee
                    of Congress which declared: "From a full confidence that the western territory now
                    contended for lay within the 
                        United States
                    , the British posts therein have been reduced by our citizens and American government is
                    now exercised within the same."36 Even more definite was the
                    declaration of a second committee which met the approval of Congress. This was committed to the
                    Secretary for Foreign Affairs "to be by him digested, completed and transmitted to the
                    ministers plenipotentiary of the United 
                  
                     34 John Jay to Robert Livingston, The Correspondence and
                                Public Papers of John Jay (Henry P. Johnston ed.), II, 390. In a letter to
                            Livingston of April 12, 1782, 
                                Franklin
                             wrote: "I see by the newspapers that the Spaniards having taken a
                            little post called 
                                St. Joseph
                            , pretend to have made a conquest of the 
                                Illinois
                             country. In what light does this proceeding appear to Congress? While they
                            declined our offered friendship, are they to be suffered to encroach on our bounds and shut
                            us up within the Appalachain Mountains?" See Francis Wharton, The
                                Revolutionary Diplomatic Correspondence of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , V, 300.
                  
                     35 In a letter written by him to Petre Sorgé, from
                            LaRochelle, 
                                France
                            , on July 6, 1779, 
                                Franklin
                             was informed of the capture of 
                                Kaskaskia
                             and 
                                Vincennes
                             by Clark and of the assistance given by Pollock. Sorgé had sailed
                            from 
                                New Orleans
                             on April 20.
                  
                     36
                            Journals of the Continental Congress, XXIII. 476. The report of the
                            committee was baaed upon a communication submitted by the 
                                Massachusetts
                             delegates in Congress which contained the statement: "The very country
                            in question hath been conquered through the means of the common labors of the 
                                United States
                            …. From a full confidence that the western territory now contended
                            for lay within the 
                                United States
                             the British posts therein have been reduced by our citizens and American
                            government is now exercised within the same." This, in substance, was the content
                            of an act of the 
                                Massachusetts
                             legislature, Oct. 27, 1781. It was submitted to Congress, Nov. 17, of that year
                            and was reported on by a special committee, January 8, 1782.
               
                     States for negotiating a treaty of peace."
                    "The very country in question," it asserts, "hath been conquered through
                    the means of the common labours of the 
                        United States
                    ."37 Is there not warrant for the conjecture that 
                        Franklin
                     was referring to this phase of their instructions when he wrote: "After some
                    weeks, an under-secretary, Mr. Strachey, arrived, with whom we had much contestation about the
                    boundaries and other articles, which he proposed and we settled…. We spent many days in
                    disputing, and at length agreed on and signed the preliminaries…. They wanted to bring
                    their boundary down to the 
                        Ohio
                    , and to settle their loyalists in the 
                        Illinois
                     country. We did not choose such neighbors."38
            
            The suggestion has been made that because of the great expense incurred in keeping control of the
                    Indians, Great Britain was willing to transfer her claim over the Northwest to the 
                        United States
                    . But the policy of buying Indian friendship did not cease with the signing of the
                    treaty of peace.39 British negotiators at the Treaty of Ghent, which brought the
                    War of 1812 to a close, strove in vain to induce the American diplomats to accede to their desire to
                    regain control over the Northwest. This accomplished, an Indian reservation was to be created which
                    should serve as a permanent barrier between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     west of Niagara. Chief Black Hawk, as late as 1832, is known to have received yearly
                    presents from British officers at Malden and felt secure of a retreat to Upper 
                        Canada
                     if he failed in his rebellion against the authority of the 
                        United States
                    .40
            
            But the accomplishments of Clark, impossible without the contributions of Pollock, have even greater
                    significance in the development of our nation. That there was a vision of the future significance of
                    these events on the part of some of the contemporaries of Clark and Pollock may be seen as we read:
                    "Two very important events are presumed to have depended in a great measure on these very
                    services of Mr. Pollock; 
                        By means of them, the conquest of the 
                                Illinois
                             Country was 
                        
                           37 August 16. 1782. Journals of the Continental
                                        Congress, XXIII, 517, 624.
                        
                           38 John Bigelow, Tb Life of Benjamin 
                                            Franklin
                                        
                            (
                                        Philadelphia
                                    , 1876). 111, 199-201. At the time of this communication to Livingston,
                                    Dee. 6, 1782, 
                                        Franklin
                                     stated that he had received letters from Livingston dated Sept. 5, 13,
                                    and 18.
                        
                           39 See Louise Phelps Kellogg, "Indian Diplomacy
                                    during the Revolution in the West." in 
                                        Illinois State
                                     Historical Society Transactions (1930), No. 36, 12.
                        
                           40 Kellogg, in ibid.
                        
                     
                             made and secured; and it consequently now forms a part
                            of the 
                                United States
                            ,
                        By means of them, 
                                Spain
                             was assisted not only in preserving her own colony of 
                                Louisiana
                            , but in making a conquest of, and retaining, two other colonies, West 
                                Florida
                             and East 
                                Florida
                            , which then belonged to the common enemy, Great Britain; and 
                                Louisiana
                             also has become a part of the 
                                United States
                            . From this resolution, and these spirited exertions, in this quarter in the
                            dawn of the revolution, of which Mr. Pollock was the life and soul, the most important
                            effects are at this very day arising."41
                  
                    
            
            This view has been presented by one of the leading interpreters of our history as follows:
                    "But if the Northwest had not been acquired by the heroic action of George Rogers Clark,
                    all the territory to the westward, which the map shows to be more than half of the 
                        United States
                    , would never have been acquired; but if the cribs ad cabins of the 
                        United States
                    , to use an old phrase, had been confined to the Alleghany Mountains, it could never
                    have had that career of imperial greatness that we see before us now."42
            
            
               
                  41 From The Case of Oliver Pollock. Dec. 1803.
               
                        
                     42 J. Franklin Jameson in the hearing before the Joint Committee on the
                            Library, Congress of the 
                                United States
                            . sixty-ninth Congress, second session, on Senate Joint Resolution 139 and House
                            Joint Resolution 307. "Joint Resolution Providing for the Participation of the 
                                United States
                             in the Celebration in 1929 of the One Hundred and Fiftieth Anniversary of the
                            Conquest of the Northwest Territory by George Rogers Clark, Authorizing an Appropriation for
                            the Construction of a Permanent Memorial in the City of 
                                Vincennes
                            . State of Indiana, and foe other Purposes."
                        An appropriation of $1,000,000 was made by the Federal Government for this purpose
                            and the memorial is now complete. It is one of the most noted monuments of the 
                                United States
                            .
                    
            
         
         
         
            United Presbyterian Beginnings∗
            
            By JAMES ALBERT WOODBURN
            
            Last May the United Presbyterian Church in its General Assembly in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     celebrated the seventy-fifth anniversary of its beginning. This was not an anniversary
                    of the beginning of its faith, as that goes back much further, but of the organization, or union, by
                    which they came to take the name, United Presbyterian.
            
            In 1858 two small branches of the Presbyterian faith united after more than a century of separation.
                    These were the Associate Presbyterians and Associate Reformed
                        Presbyterians. The two had a common origin and a common creed and all differences between
                    them had long since ceased to be. After years of effort and persuasion they came together to form
                    the United Presbyterian Church of our day.
            The larger of these two bodies was the Associate Reformed Presbyterians. They were themselves the
                    result of a union. The Reformed Presbyterians, whom we call Covenanters, had come to America in
                    colonial and revolutionary times. Their first missionary to the colonies came in 1752. The Associate
                    Presbyterians also came to America in these early years. Two of their missionaries came from the
                    Associate Synod of Edinburgh in 1753. In 1754 an Associate Presbytery was organized in America.
            
               
                  ∗ The United Presbyterian Congregation of 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, observed its one hundredth anniversary on Sept. 22-24, 1933. This
                        Congregation resulted from unions which brought together three distinct congregations that were
                        established in 
                            Bloomington
                         a century ago. The first of the three, the Associate Reformed Presbyterian
                        Congregation, was organized on Sept. 7, 1833. The Rev. William Turner was pastor from 1836 to
                        1869. The Associate Presbyterian Congregation, better known as "Seceders," was
                        organized in 1836. The Rev. I. N. Laughead was the first pastor, serving from 1839 to 1843. The
                        Rev. John Bryan, father of President William Lowe Bryan of Indiana University and of former
                        President Enoch Albert Bryan of 
                            Washington State
                         College (Pullman, 
                            Washington
                        ), was the pastor from 1366 to 1862. Following the denominational union of 1868,
                        these two Congregations became known as the First and Second United Presbyterian Churches of 
                            Bloomington
                        . On April 27, 1863, the two Congregations united and worshipped together in the
                        Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church which was located on the site of the old United
                        Presbyterian Cemetery on West Eighth Street until the union with the New Light Reformed
                        Presbyterian ("Covenanter") Congregation at College and Ninth Streets in 1869.
                        It was in 1870 that the present brick edifice at this location was erected. This third
                        Congregation (New Light Covenanter), had separated from the Old Light Congregation in 1883.
                        Prof. Theophilus Wylie of Indiana University was pastor of the New Light Covenanter Congregation
                        from 1838 until 1869. Since 1870, the following ministers have served the United Presbyterians:
                        W. P. McNary (1870-1884); S. R. Lyons (1885-1898); W. A. Littell (1899-1901); J. D. Barr
                        (1902-1906); T. R. Hanna (1907-1917); J. L. Kelso (1919-1928); J. Merle Rife (1924-1927); J. W.
                        Meloy (1928-). Dr. James A. Woodburn was a member of the United Presbyterian Church of 
                            Bloomington
                         for fifty years, Superintendent of the Bible School and a teacher in the Bible
                        School. In 1885 the Congregation observed its semi-centenial anniverasry with James A. Woodburn
                        as its historian, and William L. Bryan chairman of the committee.—Rev.
                            John W. Meloy.
               
            
            
            These two branches of the church, the Associate and the Reformed Presbyterian, were both small
                    bodies. They had like principles and practices and the same causes for their separation from the
                    Church of 
                        Scotland
                    . In 1782 a union was formed between them. The united body took both names, becoming the
                        Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church.
            
            As nearly always happens in attempting such a church union, a small body of dissenters in both bodies
                    stood out and refused to join the union. So instead of two churches becoming one,
                    they became three, and there still remained Reformed Presbyterians, Associate
                    Presbyterians, and the new union body, the Associate Reformed Presbyterians.
            As we know, the Reformed Presbyterians still exist as a separate body. Their presbytery was
                    re-organized in 1798 led by the Rev. McLeod and the Rev. Samuel 
                        Brown
                     Wylie, the father of Professor T. A. Wylie so long connected with Indiana University.
                    They have about 8,000 members in America. One of their best congregations, a worthy body of our
                    fellow Christians, exists in this community. It is happily represented here tonight. In the history
                    of our faith they are our kith and kin.
            Of these dissenting Presbyterian bodies the Covenanters (Reformed Presbyterians) were the first to be
                    founded in this community. They were organized here as early as 1821. John Moore and Isaac Faris
                    were the ruling elders. There were eight members at the first organization. In 1825 Thomas Moore and
                    James Blair were added to the session. They now had twenty members. Soon the Smiths and the
                    Woodburns came with old fashioned families—eleven in the Woodburn family. In 1830 David
                    Smith and Dorrance B. Woodburn were added to the session. James Faris was the Covenanter pastor here
                    from 1827 until 1855. The Smiths referred to are the ancestors of Dean Henry Lester Smith of the
                    School of Education, Indiana University.
            It is an interesting coincidence that the year 1833, the year we celebrate for the founding of the
                    main branch of the United Presbyterians in this community, marked a division in the Covenanter body.
                    They divided that year into the "New Side" branch and the "Old
                    Side" branch, or the "New Lights" and the "Old Lights".
                    The dispute was as to whether it was right or permissible for Covenanters to vote and to exercise
                         the rights of citizenship under the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    , in which God is not recognized as the supreme ruler of the nation.
            The New Side Church was willing to allow its members to vote, to sit on juries, to hold offices and
                    to take an oath to support the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    , if in so doing they consented to no sinful act. The Old Side Church held to the old
                    tradation and in a new covenant of 1871 asserted for its members that they "would pray for
                    and labor for the peace and welfare of our country and for its reformation by a constitutional
                    recognition of God as the source of all power and of Jesus Christ as the Ruler of Nations."
                    They would continue to refuse "to incorporate with the political body until this blessed
                    reformation had been secured." Such has continued to be the difference between these two
                    bodies of Reformed Presbyterians.
            The New Side Covenanters in 
                        Bloomington
                     dissolved their organization in 1869, and under the advice of Professor T. A. Wylie,
                    who had been their pastor for thirty years, most of its members joined the United Presbyterians.
                    Some families went to the regular Presbyterians, among them the Dinsmores and the Smalls. Between
                    1870 and 1881 several presbyteries of the New Side Covenanter church went into the Presbyterian
                    church. Some presbyteries, however, still remain separate. As late as 1925 this small branch of the
                    church had in America about 2,400 members with fifteen churches and fifteen ministers.
            Dr. T. A. Wylie constantly advised the union of the churches. After 1869 he himself worshiped in the
                    United Presbyterian church until the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Presbytery of his Reformed Presbyterian body joined the regular Presbyterians. Then he
                    became a Presbyterian. A few words about Professor Wylie and some passages from his Diary may be of
                    interest here.
            Dr. Wylie was ordained "to the office of the holy ministry" at 
                        Princeton
                    , Indiana, on July 22, 1838. He was a modest, retiring man, quite timid in public, who
                    considered himself unfit for the ministry. "The office was not one of my own
                    choosing", says he in his diary. "Had I my own way I never would have been in it,
                    but it seems it was my fate. I was thrown into the current. I made some exertions to extricate  myself. I found these vain and at last determined to let matters
                    take their course and to submit to whatever might happen. I have been sometimes so vain as to think
                    that in my difficulties I have had divine aid. But still there is something wanting".
            On August 6, 1838 he made this entry: "Yesterday I preached, but such preaching! I am sure
                    if it were possible I would not listen to such a preacher; how, then, can I blame others if they
                    stay away? O, that it were otherwise?"
            The Associate Presbyterians, sometimes called "Seceders," the other branch in the
                    forming of the United Presbyterians in 1858, continued as a separate congregation in 
                        Bloomington
                     until 1864. The Associate and the Associate Reformed bodies had become United
                    Presbyterians, but they were separate congregations here for six years after the union at large.
            This branch of the church ("Seceders") was organized in 
                        Bloomington
                     in 1836 with twenty-four members under the leadership of the Rev. James M. Henderson.
                    Samuel Wylie, Andrew Roddy, Robert Courley, and John McKissock were the ruling elders. Among others
                    there were Browns, Calhouns, Harrahs, Neills, Phillipses, Robinsons, Services and Storys in the
                    congregation.
            For four years, 1839-43, the Rev. I. N. Lawhead was their minister. For some years they relied upon
                    irregular supplies. In 1855 the Rev. John Bryan, father of President Bryan, became their pastor,
                    continuing in that relation until his congregation went into the United Presbyterian Church in 1864.
            The "Seceders" were, perhaps, the stiffest of these stiff-backed, psalm-singing
                    Scotch-Irish Presbyterians. In faith, practice and worship, they were not greatly different from
                    their kindred co-religionists, the Covenanters and the Associate Reformed Presbyterians. It may be
                    they were a little more strict, or "set," in their ways. With all of these folks
                    the creed was a vital matter, and they were ready to offer a bill of particulars. They had received
                    their creed from Calvin and 
                        Knox
                    . Their Sabbath services usually consumed most of the day. They had two long sermons,
                    one in the forenoon and one in the afternoon, with a brief noon intermission. They were long on
                    sermons. The preacher expounded the scripture, often giving an argumentative defense of beliefs of
                    the members.
            
            The minister always explained the psalm before it was sung—a critical discourse almost as
                    long as a modern sermon. They were a strict, close-communion church and they zealously barred from
                    their communion all who did not accept their faith, and also all of their own members who by their
                    misconduct or "neglect of the ordinances" (failing to go to church) or by
                    "breaking the Sabbath," had fallen from grace or had lapsed from the standards.
                    They were very strict sabbatarians, and trials before the session were frequent for Sabbath-breaking
                    and not infrequent for over-indulgence in Scotch whisky. They were usually quite thorough in what
                    they took, or undertook. Three-point-two beer would have had no attraction for them.
            It was this stiffness of creed and practice (no reference here to drinking) that led Alexander 
                        Campbell
                     and his father Thomas 
                        Campbell
                    , originally Scotch Seceders, to leave that body and to seek to establish a milder and
                    more tolerant religion, or, as the Scotch Seceder would say, a more "easy going"
                    religion.
            Another excerpt from Professor Wylie's Diary will illustrate the character of these Scotch
                    Presbyterian services in this community nearly a hundred years ago: 
                        Sabbath 12th August, 1838. This morning I rose about 6 1/2…. About 10 oclock
                            started in company with Dr. Hamill to go to the Seceder church, where the sacrament was to
                            be held; got there about 11 oclock (the church was a few miles east of 
                                Bloomington
                            ). The psalm had been explained. Mr. Hall preached from the words "And
                            they crucified Jesus." The sermon was good, nothing extraordinary, however. After
                            an intermission of a few minutes the exercises were continued by a Mr. Henderson. He began
                            to exhort to the duty of self-examination, which amounts to the same thing as debarring (putting the bars up at the communion table). His general remarks,
                            observations on the particular sins to which they were to direct their
                            attention,—the performance of this duty occupied about two hours and
                                a half. It was the most tedious piece of work that I ever listened to. All that he
                            said during this time I am sure might have been said to a much better purpose in half an
                            hour. After a very abrupt termination the tables were filled, the blessing asked, the words
                            of the institution read but not explained, and the address (to the communicants) was spun
                            out about half an hour long, neither good nor bad. After that I left. I am sure that my
                            feelings were noti such as they ought to have been. Where was the fault? Was it in me, or in
                            the services, or in both? I expect it will be the truest to say the last.
                        
                        What a miserable thing it is to me that these church affairs are so irksome to me; there does
                            appear to be so much cant about them. Is it because that I, in my present condition cannot
                            perceive the beauty of these things because they are spiritually discerned? I fear khat this
                            is too much the case. I am not good enough nor bad enough to be a preacher. I am not good
                            enough because I do not take the pleasure in the things of God that I ought to do. I cannot
                            meditate on them with pleasure, my mind will wander after some thing more congenial to its
                            disposition. Nor am I bad enough, for if I could act the hypocrite a little better, the
                            desire for distinction and popularity might make me study harder and keep up better outside
                            than I do. I might declaim against "human compositions" (hymns) and
                            defections in other churches and "occasional hearing," and whenever I
                            should see any of the people have some pious remark to make; if any thing had happened, call
                            it providence, and I might say my prayers loud enough for the people to hear.
                    
            
            "Occasional hearing" was the sin of attending the church of another denomination
                    and listening to an heretical minister who was outside the fold. The Seceders and Covenanters were
                    pretty strict about this. My recollection is that my own father (a Covenanter) was called before the
                    session on this account. He attended singing schools, too, where hymns of "human
                    composition" may have been used in teaching and practice. The guardians of the faith must
                    have thought that ha was on the road to hopeless worldliness.
            Though leaving the church that day before the services were ended, Dr. Wylie reports that he got home
                    about six o'clock. Mr. Pering, the Principal of the Girls' Seminary, came in for
                    an evening visit. Dr. Wylie adds: 
                        I might have mentioned that Mr. Henderson debarred all who would sing any human compositions
                            in worship, or would learn to sing by using verses of hymns. Our sacrament is coming. How am
                            I to dispense it?
                    
            
            All this goes to show, in the light of recent years, how change and growth have worked among these
                    good Scotch folk, and how the "good old days," as we approach them, are always
                    found receding into the more distant past.
            According to the Record Book of the Session it was on September 7, 1833, that the Associate Reformed
                    Congregation was organized in this community. This is the event we celebrate tonight. The Rev. Mr.
                    Reynolds of 
                        Decatur county
                     acted as Moderator. Mr. William Fee was the only elder. There were Currys, Cherrys,
                    Millens, Hannahs, and Johnstons. Soon came the Harbisons, Wilsons, Weirs, Moffetts, Strongs, Henrys,
                    McCaws, McCallas, Millers, and others, from South  Carolina. In
                    June, 1836, the Rev. William Turner from Pendleton, 
                        South Carolina
                    , was installed as pastor of the congregation. He continued in pastoral service for
                    thirty-three years, when (1869) his congregation removed from their house of worship on West Eighth
                    street to the present site (corner of Ninth and College Avenue) and began the erection of the
                    present building. Then the Rev. W. P. McNary was called to the pastorate. For a number of years,
                    three former pastors, the Rev. T. A. Wylie, the Rev. William Turner, and the Rev. John Bryan resided
                    here and sat with the United congregation in this house of worship. Each frequently led the worship,
                    breaking unto the people the bread of life.
            As in the previous attempt at union in 1782, so in that of 1858, there were dissenters in both bodies
                    who refused to join the union. The Associate Reformed Presbyterians who refused to become United
                    Presbyterians in 1858 were almost all in the South. Sectional differences over slavery and the Civil
                    War prevented them from becoming a part of the United Presbyterian Church. They have not yet joined.
                    How persistent is separation, and how hard is it for brethren to come together in unity. In 1925 the
                    Southern Associate Reformed Church had 17,200 members, mostly in the Carolinas. They are our near
                    kin. They may be thought of as the United Presbyterian Church South. There is no
                    difference between them and the United Presbyterians, unless our recent more liberal attitude on
                    psalmody may have further estranged our southern brethren. So far as I know there are no former
                    Associate Reformed Presbyterians north of the old 
                        Mason
                     and Dixon's line.
            At the Union of 1858 eleven Seceder ministers (Associate Presbyterians) refused to enter the Union.
                    In 1925 their Synod reported ten presbyteries, eleven churches, five ministers and about three
                    hundred-fifty members, enough to make one fair sized congregation. They are the children of the
                    original come-outers of 1733 and they will no doubt remain stag-outers to the end.
            It is another coincidence that while we are celebrating the one hundredth anniversary of the
                    beginning of this congregation (or its main branch), the church of 
                        Scotland
                     is celebrating the two hundredth anniversary of the secession movement in that country.
                    It is in that Scottish secession of 1733 that the United Presbyterians find their ecclesiastical
                    origin. It  was in that year that the founders of this church
                    stood stoutly for the true Presbyterian faith and practices which they had inherited from their
                    fathers from the days of 
                        Knox
                     and Calvin. They stood for their faith even at the expense of schism in the mother
                    church. Our church history, both in 
                        Scotland
                     and America, has vindicated its cause.
            Before 1733 our ecclesiastical ancestors were members of the Presbyterian Church of 
                        Scotland
                    . After the struggle with the Stuart Kings, the law of the realm, while recognizing
                    Episcopacy as the form of church government for 
                        England
                     recognized Presbyterianism for 
                        Scotland
                    . It should be remembered that the regular Presbyterian Church in 
                        Scotland
                     was an established church—a state church subject in large degree to state
                    and civil control. Here, in large measure, was the rub between contending parties in the church
                    which led to the famous Secession of 1733.
            By the Revolution of 1688 civil and religious liberties had been restored to the Scottish people.
                    Presbyterianism was recognized both in the settlement of 1689 and in the Parliamentary Union of 
                        England
                     and 
                        Scotland
                     in 1707. But the puritan party in the church felt that the state continued to interfere
                    too much in ecclesiastical affairs. This offended the Covenanters who refused to accept what they
                    regarded as the compromising settlement of 1689, which authorized certain state powers over the
                    church. The result was that the Covenanters came out. They refused to recognize the authority of the
                    General Assembly of 
                        Scotland
                    . For many years they had no special ecclesiastical organization. They formed societies
                    which met in their homes, in their barns, or in caves, and this they continued to do even after the
                    accession of William and Mary. It was not until 1743 that they formed an organization called the
                    Reformed Presbytery of 
                        Scotland
                    .
            Abuses against which the Covenanters protested continued within the established church of 
                        Scotland
                    . It became very courtly, that is, more dependent on the court and the rich landed
                    patrons for favor and support. It became more worldly, more loose in morals and lax in discipline.
                    Strange and questionable doctrines were taught by professors of theology, and the true
                    "marrow of modern divinity," or the good old orthodoxy, was losing its hold upon
                    the church.
            
            The controlling state party stood for centralization of power. It sought to make the Assembly
                    supreme, to impose its will on presbyteries and congregations. In the Presbyterian system the real
                    power lies in the presbyteries. If an overture, or a proposed change in the law, is sent down to the
                    presbyteries for approval and a majority of the presbyteries reject it, it is rejected. Not so in
                    the days when the reforming Scottish Seceders had their quarrel with the church. Those in power were
                    clearly violating in many instances the fundamental constitution of the church.
            The main subject of controversy arose over the question of patronage. Should the people continue to
                    elect and call their ministers as the ancient Presbyterian constitution provided? Or should the
                    minister be assigned or presented to the congregation by some lay lord, or magistrate, or civil
                    authority? There were many disputed settlements. The General Assembly sought to compel presbyteries
                    to give effect to "presentations." For a time and in certain places, presbyteries
                    resisted and disregarded the nominations made by lay patrons, and proceeded to settle over the
                    congregations the ministers elected by the people. When they did their chosen men were the legal
                    ministers but they could not claim the stipends which came from the magistrates, lay patrons, or
                    church lands. The members of the moderate party in the established church of 
                        Scotland
                     were not ready for this financial sacrifice; they were ready to submit ta the
                    presentations from powerful patrons. The "call" always held to be essential was
                    less and less regarded and was finally declared to be unnecessary. The Assembly declared that the
                    church courts were bound to install any qualified presentee.
            Lay patronage in the church came to be regarded as part of the order of things. The presbyteries
                    ceased to resist presentations. But to many ministers and members this was a serious grievance. In
                    1712, in Anne's time, an act was passed by Parliament that strengthened the practice of
                    patronage. The act was passed in spite of the protest and remonstrance of the Scottish people who
                    still wished to hold to the Presbyterian system. In a score of years a gradual change came about.
                    The established church of 
                        Scotland
                     had become indifferent to the "calling" of ministers.
            
            There was a sad catalogue of forced settlements in the history of the Scottish Church before and
                    after 1733. Often when an unpopular presentee was settled over the people, many quietly left the
                    state church and built "meeting-houses." In thirty years following 1733, there
                    were one hundred-twenty "meeting-houses" in 
                        Scotland
                    . Not all who believed with the Seceders followed them out of the church; many continued
                    the struggle within the church.
            Such was the controversy in the Scottish church over the appointment of Presbyterian ministers within
                    the first third of the eighteenth century and after. It seemed that the state, or magistrates, or
                    lay lords, were coming into the control of the church. As to calling ministers it had come to be the
                    settled practice by the compliance of the General Assembly that congregations were to be allowed to
                    "concur" as to the minister assigned, but not to "call." The
                    Seceders refused to concur. To them the abuse seemed like Episcopacy which they had so long opposed.
                    They held out for the right of election, a right guaranteed to them from the beginning by the
                    constitution and usage of the Presbyterian church. They were standing on good ground. It is clear
                    that the church should have given more weight to the wishes of the people. Lay patronage and state
                    control should have been resisted. The soundness of this position, which was the position of the
                    secessionists of 1733, is conceded today by the whole reunited church of 
                        Scotland
                    . I know of no Presbyterian Church anywhere in the world today that does not concede it
                    and live by it.
            The leader of the Secession of 1733, from which United Presbyterians sprang, was the Rev. Ebenezer
                    Erskine, minister at Sterling. In 1732 before his Synod he preached his historic sermon, in which he
                    spoke against the heresies and corruptions of the times and stood for the right of the people to
                    call their own ministers and to govern their own churches. In his sermon he accused the established
                    Presbyterians and the moderate party of "an attempt to jostle Christ out of the
                    Church."
            An act of the General Assembly of 1732 had abolished the last remnant of popular election. It
                    provided that where patrons might neglect or decline to exercise the right of presentation, the
                    minister was to be chosen, not by the congregation, but by the elders and Protestant heritors
                    (landowners or  proprietors). The Assembly had passed this act
                    although the presbyteries to which it had been submitted as an overture had disapproved of it by a
                    large majority. The protests of the dissenting majority were disregarded. Erskine referred to all
                    such acts of the Assembly as "unscriptural and unconstitutional." They certainly
                    were unconstitutional, and to any one who believes that the Presbyterian form of government is.
                    founded on the scriptures, these acts were unscriptural.
            Members of the Synod objected to Erskine's vigorous and outspoken utterances and he was
                    censured for them. He appealed to the General Assembly which sustained the Synod's censure
                    in May, 1733. Erskine protested and held himself at liberty "to teach the same truths and
                    to testify against the same errors on every proper occasion." That was the right spirit. As
                    children of the Covenanters and Seceders we rejoice in it. In his protest Erskine was joined by
                    William Wilson (Perth), Alexander Moncrief (Abernethy), and James Fisher (Kinclaven), A little later
                    Ralph Erskine, the brother of Ebenezer, joined the dissenting group.
            Because of their protest, the dissenting ministers were severed from their charges, their churches
                    declared vacant, and all ministerial functions were denied them. They then felt obliged to secede
                    from the church courts. In December, 1733, they constituted themselves into an independent
                    presbytery. In 1734 they published their "Testimony," setting forth the grounds of
                    their secession. It has stood the test of time. In 1736 they began to organize churches. By 1745 the
                    "Associate Presbytery" had forty-five congregations and became the Associate
                    Synod. In 1747 a division occurred. It was the unfortunate division of "Burgher"
                    and "Anti-Burgher." Those who condemned the swearing of the burgess oath as sinful
                    were known as "Anti-Burgher." Those who contended that abstaining from the oath or
                    accepting it should not be made a test of communion, were called "Burghers."
                    Taking the oath or rejecting it, they contended, ought to be left to the individual conscience of
                    each member.
            The "Anti-Burghers" refused to hold friendly conferences with the others. They
                    passed sentences of excommunication on the Erskines themselves and on the ministers who held the  opposing view. The law of "occasional hearing"
                    arose and faithful members were not permitted to hear pastors of an opposing fold.
            This division lasted until 1820 when there was a happy reunion. This cause for division never existed
                    in America, nor could have existed, nevertheless the separation existed here for nearly
                    three-quarters of a century.
            It might have been better if I had not mentioned this uncomely division. Yet there may be a lesson in
                    it. It may be useful in bringing our Scotch minds to reflect that it is better to avoid quarrels and
                    argumentations that lead to church divisions on convictions of minor importance.
            It was on the Secession ground of 1733, essentially, that the greater division in the Scottish church
                    occurred in 1843. It was then that the great Thomas Chalmers led the majority of the Scottish Church
                    against the control of the establishment and formed the Free Church of 
                        Scotland
                    . Chalmers would have the Church free from state control, with the unquestioned right of
                    every congregation to choose its own pastor.
            In 1900 the Free Church of 
                        Scotland
                     and the United Presbyterian Church of 
                        Scotland
                     came together in one organization, the United Free Church of 
                        Scotland
                    . They were in happy harmony. Most of the Reformed Presbyterians had already come into
                    the Free Church—all except the "Wee Frees." The united body declared
                    that the civil magistrate should have no authority in spiritual things. They held that the exercise
                    of force in such matters is opposed to the spirit and precepts of christianity, declaring that it
                    was not within the province of the royal magistrate "to legislate as to what is true in
                    religion, to prescribe a creed or form of worship to his subjects, or to endow the church from
                    national resources." He might control temporalities but not spiritualities. No longer
                    should the rights and powers of presbyteries and General Assembly be regulated by acts of the civil
                    power.
            These were the principles of the Erskines in 1733, and they are the principles of all Presbyterians
                    today. On these principles of Erskine and Chalmers, the General Assembly of the Church of 
                        Scotland
                    , in 1929, received the United Free Church back into its fold. The Scottish Church was
                    again united and free—"a free church within a free state." But it was
                    not that when the Seceders made good their fight.
            
            We do well to express our filial devotion to the fathers of our church for the stand they took in
                    1733. On the great issue of church and state—-the freedom of the church from state
                    control—we stand where they stood. They fought our battle. Because of their faithfulness
                    and the faithfulness of their followers, the churches of the Presbyterian faith throughout the world
                    now stand together on this common ground.
            Here in 
                        Bloomington
                     for a hundred years (on this site since 1869) this church has stood. It was founded by
                    men and women of "the old time and religion," whose ancestors brought their faith
                    to the wilds of America from 
                        Scotland
                     and North 
                        Ireland
                    . In their pioneer cabin homes they organized their religious
                    "society." As soon as they could they built their house of worship. It was
                    unfurnitured and unadorned, except by their simple unfeigned worship. They were a hardy, sturdy
                    stock who remembered the ways of their fathers and who sought to instill in their children a true
                    piety and worthy standards of conduct. Most of them were not highly educated, but they were never
                    illiterate. They were friends of education and were founders of schools as well as of churches. In
                    days before puplic schools, or community schools, they taught their children to read from the
                    catechism and the Bible. They were a neighborly people and the community recognized in them a good
                    type of citizenship. It is most fitting that we should celebrate the days of their beginnings.
                    recall their early trials ana Hardships, and that we should honor their memories by emulating their
                    example in all good works.
         
         
         
            History on the Mississinewa
            By ROSS F. LOCKRIDGE
            
            The beautiful Mississinewa is an historic Hoosier stream quite as distinctively as is the Hoosier 
                        Wabash
                    . It is one of the principal tributaries of the 
                        Wabash
                     and has its source not far from where the 
                        Wabash
                     begins a short distance beyond the eastern boundary of central Indiana. It is a scenic
                    river. Nearly every mile of its course is made beautiful by winding curves, rippling rapids, craggy
                    banks or short and pleasing straightaways, flanked by level and fertile bottomlands. No other stream
                    in Indiana, and possibl? none in the rest of America, offers a more unique combination of scenic
                    beauty and historic interest. It is a vital and unchanged monument of a great and simple people.
                    Along its shores a strong unit of a mighty race saw the summit of their power and there came their
                    final passing as a race, all within the course of three-quarters of a century.
            The name is delightfully significant. In the graphic Miami language, Mississinewa means falling
                    waters. Its very syllables, Mis-sis-sin-e-wa, are sibilant with the sound of
                    falling or rushing waters as pronounced in the soft, guttural accents of the Miamis. The reason for
                    this musical name is obvious. There is scarcely a mile of the river's course without swift
                    narrows or shallow rapids where rushing or falling waters give the sound suggested by the syllables
                    of the name Mis-sis-sin-e-wa.
            Something of a peculiar sentiment forever attaching to this scenic river was expressed by James
                    Whitcomb Riley touching the little town of 
                        Somerset
                     and its picturesque setting among the Hills of the Mississinewa midway between 
                        Marion
                     and 
                        Peru
                    : 
                        Clean fergot is time, and care, And thick hearin', and gray hair— But
                            they's nothin' I ferget 'Mongst the Hills O' 
                                Somerset
                            !
                    
            
            The stream joins the 
                        Wabash
                     in the heart of the county named for its great people—Miami—near
                    the county seat, 
                        Peru
                    . The history of the Mississinewa is an integral part of the history of the Miami nation
                    of Indians.
            
            Let it be said generally for this tribe of redmen that they considered themselves superior Indians.
                    They were sustained in this view by the earliest historic white men who dealt with them. The saintly
                    Marquette, who spent his last days near them, paid them this high tribute as compared to other
                    tribes of the middle West. 
                        The Miamis are the most civil, the most liberal, and the most shapely. They wear two long
                            locks over their ears, which give them a pleasing appearance. They are regarded as warriors
                            and rarely undertake expeditions without being successful. They are very docile and listen
                            quietly to what is said to them.
                    
            
            The knightly LaSalle, who had many dealings with them and who effected with them a great Indian
                    alliance against the aggressions of the fierce Iroquois, said: 
                        The Miamis are the most civilized of all Indian nations—neat of dress, splendid of
                            bearing, haughty of manner, holding all other tribes as inferiors.1
                  
                    
            
            LaSalle found these Indians in 1679 established principally on the 
                        St. Joseph
                     of the Lake, which was known as the River of the Miamis. His great wilderness empire
                    around, the Rock of 
                        St. Louis
                     (Starved Rock) was composed principally of the various tribes of the Miamis under
                    different tribal names but all having the language, dress and customs of the Miamis. Of 3880
                    warriors, representing a total population of 20,000 Indians, whom LaSalle collected around his Fort 
                        St. Louis
                     on the 
                        Illinois
                    , an exact accounting by tribes in 1684 showed that more than half of these
                    warriors—2100—belonged to the various tribes of the Miami nation.
            Following the assassination of LaSalle in 1687 and the consequent disruption of his wilderness empire
                    which centered on the Illinois River, these Miamis came back into the region of
                    their former homes and ultimately became firmly established throughout the valleys of the 
                        Wabash
                     and its tributaries—especially of the Eel and the Mississinewa. This vast
                    Indian domain ranged from its main headquarters at Kekionga (Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ) to the mouth of the 
                        Wabash
                    . Those tribes living in the area about Kekionga and on the upper 
                        Wabash
                    , including also the valleys of the Eel and the Mississinewa, were Miamis proper.
                    Farther down the river near the mouth of 
                  
                     1 For a fuller treatment of LaSalle and Marquette, see the
                            author's volume LaSalle (Yonkers-on-Hudson, 1931).
               
                     the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     they were known as the Weas or Ouiatenons, and still further down in the region of
                        White River as the Piankeshaws. Some other smaller tribes had different
                    tribal names, but all were Miamis having the same language, dress and customs.
            There is a well sustained tradition that these Miamis of the 
                        Wabash
                     in alliance with the 
                        Illinois
                     tribes farther west—an alliance that had been formed by LaSalle in 1681
                    under the Council Oak, which still stands in 
                        Highland
                     Cemetery, 
                        South Bend
                    —finally stopped the Iroquois invasions. In one great final battle on the 
                        Wabash
                     near where 
                        Terre Haute
                     now stands, they defeated and drove back permanently these savage aggressors sometime
                    about the end of the seventeenth century. There is no historical record of this battle and it lives
                    only in Indian tradition. The same tradition gives account of many bloody battles throughout the
                    region of the 
                        Wabash
                     and the Mississinewa in which the Miamis fought for their beloved homes.
            When recorded history finally came to the Mississinewa, a branch of the tribe was settled there where
                    they had made themselves strong in wilderness security. This Mississinewa region was favorably
                    located in the heart of the Miami nation. By reason of this favorable location it was more secure
                    than either the upper or the lower 
                        Wabash
                     and by reason of its central position it was more often a place of council and
                    confederation than of war and bloodshed. It was a famous crossing place and meeting place of
                    representatives of many nations. There is a well-etsablished tradition that a great council of all
                    the leading tribes of the mid-west region was held at this place about the year 1755 to consider the
                    attitude of the Indians toward 
                        France
                     and 
                        England
                     in their great contest for the interior of North America, the preliminary of the Seven
                    Years War.
            The year 1778 is an interesting basal date in the history of this region of the Mississinewa. In the
                    autumn of that year, probably about the first week in November, the British
                    "Hair-buyer" General, Lieutenant-Governor Henry Hamilton, came with his army down
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     on his way to 
                        Vincennes
                    , holding councils at the various Miami villages along the way. He held a great council
                    with the Miamis of the Mississinewa at the junction of that river with the 
                        Wabash
                    . Those lordly  sachems smoked the pipe of peace with
                    the Redcoat General. They listened to his words and accepted his presents but they did not join him
                    as a nation. It was not their fight. The Miamis fought their own battles. As a rule, they did not
                    take part in anyone else's battles or ask anyone else to take part in theirs. They let 
                        Hamilton
                     go on down the river to be defeated and taken captive by George Rogers Clark in
                    February, 1779.
            This year, 1778, has another significant connection with history on the Mississinewa because of an
                    event that occurred more than a thousand miles away at the very time of the council with the British
                    General on the Mississinewa. On November 2, 1778, a white child, five years of age, was stolen from
                    her home by Indians at Wilkes-Barre, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in the beautiful 
                        Wyoming
                     Valley where the Susquehanna flows. The child was Frances Slocum. These two widely
                    separated events, occurring at the same time, suggest the far-away beginnings of a bit of romantic
                    race history that was to culminate finally on the banks of the Mississinewa, more than half a
                    century later. It was to furnish a fine thread of human interest, strangely interwoven with the
                    passing of this simple people and their ultimate dispossession by American pioneers or amalgamation
                    with them.
            Although the Miami Indians did not join actively in the American Revolution in the West as a nation,
                    they did get into the fighting before the end of the Revolution mainly for the purpose of preventing
                    the spread of American settlements north and west of the 
                        Ohio
                    . The epochal event that might be said to have brought this Indian nation to the front
                    in resisting the spread of American settlements was the massacre of LaBalme which occurred on
                    November 7, 1780, on Eel River not far from where 
                        Columbia City
                     is now located. That dramatic event, which ended the spectacular enterprise of that
                    temperamental Frenchman, marked the beginning of a remarkable career for a great Miami chieftain,
                    Little Turtle, who belonged to the Eel River tribe of the Miamis and who from
                    the date of the LaBalme massacre was recognized as the principal war chief of all the Miami tribes
                    and is now generally recognized in history as the greatest Indian general of all times.2 After the massacre of LaBalme, for which Little 
                  
                     2 More complete stories of LaBalme, Little Turtle, William Wells and
                            others will appear in a future issue of the Indiana Magazine of History in
                            an article by the author under the title "History on Eel
                            River."
               
                     Turtle and the Miamis were rewarded and encouraged by the
                    British, Little Turtle and other great chiefs were leading hostile expeditions across the 
                        Ohio
                     into the rapidly growing settlements in 
                        Kentucky
                    . This continued on after the close of the Revolution and constituted a menace to those
                    settlements long after peace had been made with 
                        England
                    .
            George 
                        Washington
                     understood the serious danger to America in this situation. He knew the value of this
                    region of the 
                        Wabash
                    . He believed that the hand of 
                        England
                     was behind these Indian raids; that 
                        England
                     was encouraging the Indians to keep American settlers out of this old Northwest. 
                        England
                     was still holding the border posts of 
                        Detroit
                    , Niagara and other frontier stations, contrary to the Treaty of 1783. 
                        Washington
                     knew that 
                        England
                     hoped through these Indian wars to regain this old Northwest which she had lost by the
                    heroic conquest of George Rogers Clark. After the Revolution while Washington was at his home in
                    Mount Vernon, he was writing letters calling attention to this danger and urging that a strong fort
                    be built at the Miami Village where Fort 
                        Wayne
                     now is, so as to control this Indian situation on the 
                        Wabash
                     and the Lakes. On February 8, 1785, he wrote a letter to Richard Henry Lee strongly
                    recommending thorough exploration and survey of the region and commenting upon the strategic
                    position of Kekionga (Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ), in these words: "I cannot forbear observing that the Miami village [site of
                    Ft. 
                        Wayne
                    ] points to an important post for the Union."
            Nothing could be done under the weak Confederacy, but when the constitution was adopted and 
                        Washington
                     became president, he immediately gave this situation his attention and sent a message
                    to the War Department concerning it: 
                        It is highly necessary that I should, as soon as possible, possess full information whether
                            the 
                                Wabash
                             and 
                                Illinois
                             Indians are most inclined for war or peace. If for the former, it is proper
                            that I should be informed of the means which will most probably induce them to peace. If a
                            peace can be established with the said Indians on reasonable terms, the interests of the 
                                United States
                             dictate that it should be effected as soon as possible…. But if,
                            after manifesting clearly to the Indians the disposition of the general government for the
                            preservation of peace and the extension of a just protection to the said Indians, they
                            should continue their incursions, the 
                                United States
                             will be constrained to punish them with severity.3
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  3 Joseph E. Griswold, History of 
                                Fort Wayne
                             and 
                                Allen County
                            
                  , 42.
            
            
            A special messenger, Antoine Gamelin, was sent with friendly offers to all the tribes along the 
                        Wabash
                     early in 1790. He visited each of them and tried earnestly to present to them the
                    peaceful purposes of the great White Chief. They received him kindly but with cool
                    independence—none more so than those on the Mississinewa. He got no satisfaction. It was
                    evident that secret British influences were behind them.
            Then followed in rapid succession armed expeditions which had for their purpose the punishment of
                    these tribes, so as to stop their hostilities, and the building of a powerful American stronghold at
                    Kekionga. Although the Indians of the Mississinewa were directly affected by all of these
                    expeditions yet none of them reached that secure central point. First was the expedition of General
                    Harmar in the fall of 1790 in which he suffered a repulse on October 22 on the Maumee River, just
                    where the city of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     now stands. During the following summer there were two brief "desultory
                    operations" against the Miamis further south. The expedition of General Winfield T. Scott
                    in June, 1791, and of General James Wilkinson in August, harassed the Miami towns of Ouiatenon (four
                    miles below 
                        Lafayette
                    ), Kethtippecanunk (at the mouth of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ), and Kenapacomaqua (six miles up Eel River from 
                        Logansport
                    ), destroying the crops and carrying away many prisoners. They did not meet with much
                    opposition as the principal bands of warriors were away getting ready for the large expedition that
                    was coming under Governor Arthur St. Clair in the fall. The Governor came with a large but poorly
                    organized army from Fort 
                        Washington
                     (
                        Cincinnati
                    ) in October. His direct objective was to build a fort at Kekionga—a post
                    strong enough to control the Indian situation in the Middle-West. The massacre of his army as a
                    result of the generalship of Little Turtle on the headwaters of the 
                        Wabash
                     (Fort Recovery, 
                        Ohio
                    ) November 4, 1791, was a climax in the misfortunes of the Americans in handling this
                    Indian situation.
            This was followed by vigorous action of the Federal Government directed by President Washington
                    himself. Mad Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     organized the Legion of the 
                        United States
                    , decisively defeated the confederated tribes at the battle of The Fallen Timbers on
                    August 20, 1794, and then built Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . He dictated terms of peace at the treaty of Greenville in the  summer of 1795. There Little Turtle spoke eloquently for the
                    preservation of this vast Miami domain. He said in the great council of July 22, 1795: 
                        It is well known that my forefathers kindled the first fire at 
                                Detroit
                            ; from thence they extended their lines to the headwaters of the Scioto; then to
                            its mouth; thence down the 
                                Ohio
                             to the mouth of the 
                                Wabash
                             and thence to Lake 
                                Michigan
                            . [This included all of Indiana and a part of 
                                Ohio
                            ]
                        I have now informed you of the boundaries of the Miami nation where the Great Spirit placed
                            my forefathers a long time ago, and charged them not to sell or part with their lands, but
                            to preserve them for their posterity. This charge has been handed down to me.4
                  
                     He signed the treaty reluctantly, declaring: "I have been the last to sign it: I
                    shall be the last to break it." And he never did. The Miamis never fought again, as a
                    nation, until they were forced to strike a last despairing blow on the Mississinewa seventeen years
                    later to save their homes from destruction.
            The Miamis of the Mississinewa were actively engaged in all these continental affairs but their
                    secure middle region was untouched by the hand of war. It was natural from the security of their
                    location that they should be among the most independent of all Indian tribes.
            When William Henry Harrison, as governor of Indiana Territory and Superintendent of Indian affairs,
                    began his policy of opening Indian lands to white settlers by a series of treaties, he found the
                    Miamis of the Mississinewa the most stubborn objectors to his most important treaty which was made
                    at Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in September, 1809. His Journal makes this interesting note of the proceedings on
                    September 26 of that year: 
                        A meeting of the several tribes took place. The Potawatomies urged an immediate compliance to
                            the proposal of the 
                                United States
                            . The Miamis from Mississinewa took the lead in the debate and declared that
                            they would no longer consider them as brothers but that they would loose the chain which had
                            united them with the tomahawk. Setting up a shout of defiance which was echoed by all, the
                            warriors proceeded immediately to the Council House to inform the Governor of what they had
                            done. The Governor blamed them for their rashness and made them promise not to offer the
                            Miamis any further insult and to put their cause in his hands.
                        
                     
                        4 Wallace A. Brice, History of Fort 
                                        Wayne
                                    
                        , 114.
                  
                        
                        It appeared that such of the Miamis as had determined in favor of the Treaty were intimidated
                            by the vehemence of the Chiefs of the Mississinewa Village and remained silent.5
                  
                    
            
            Governor Harrison was not able to win over those proud Mississinewa Chiefs until he assured them, as
                    his Journal recites, that 
                        it was always the Governor's intention so to draw up the Treaty that the
                            Potawatomies and Delawares would be considered as participating in the advantages of the
                            Treaty as allies of the Miamis not as having any right to the land. Every countenance
                            brightened at this declaration.6
                  
                     The Governor had to assure them further "that he perfectly understood and admitted
                    that they (the Mississinewa Chiefs) were the real representatives of the Miami Nation and that he
                    should always consider them as such."
            Governor Harrison returned from Fort 
                        Wayne
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                     by way of the Mississinewa, of which he said in his Journal: 
                        We arrived at Mississinewa on the 6th [November, 18091 where we were hospitably received by
                            Richardville the Grand Sachem of the Miamis who expressed his entire satisfaction at the
                            conclusion of the Treaty.7
                  
                    
            
            The whole number of Indians present on September 30, 1809, the day that treaty was signed, was 1390.
                    It was this treaty, usually known as the New Purchase Treaty, or the treaty which drew the
                    "Ten o'clock" Boundary Line, that brought the confederacy of Tecumseh and
                    the Prophet out into the open, which in turn lead to the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . These famous Shawnee twins had established some time in 1808 a new capital known as
                    Prophetstown on the 
                        Wabash
                    , near the mouth of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . This was in the very heart of the Miami country, and it was established in this place
                    for the purpose of involving the powerful Miamis in the great confederated movement which had as its
                    main object the recovery of all the land that Indians had lost or sold.
            However, largely through the influence of Little Turtle, as well as through the spirit of native
                    independence that always characterized the Miamis, they never came under the ascendancy of these
                    powerful Shawnee leaders. But, as the situation at Prophetstown gradually approached a threatening
                    stage, 
                  
                     5
                            Messages and Letters of William Henry Harrison, edited by Logan Esarey, I,
                            869.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 376.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 376.
               
                     it seems that some of the Miamis, partcularly of the Ouiatenon
                    tribe, began to waver. When Governor Harrison finally determined to destroy Prophetstown and
                    received orders to do so from the War Department, he sent a message of warning to all the Miamis on
                    September 11, 1811, in which he said in part: 
                        My Children. Be wise and listen to my voice. I fear that you have got on a road that will
                            lead you to destruction. It is not too late to turn back. Have pity upon your women and
                            children. It is time that my friends should be known. I shall draw a line. Those that keep
                            me by the hand must keep on one side of it and those that adhere to the Prophet on the
                                other.8
                  
                    
            
            Several Miami chiefs made wise answers to this ultimatum, affirming their adherence to the terms of
                    the Treaty of Greenville and their continued friendship for the 
                        United States
                    . The Governor reported the sentiments of the Miamis of the Mississinewa as follows:
                        
                        Silverheels, the Mississinewa Chief, spoke at great length and said; that he informed his
                            people that he conceived it greatly to the interest of his nation, that a decisive answer
                            should be given to their great fathers speech, that he had asked for it, and that he was
                            entitled to have it, that for himself he had always detested the Prophet and his doctrine,
                            and that the interest of the nation required of the Miamis that they should have no
                            connection with the Prophet; that in case a misunderstanding should take place between the 
                                United States
                             and the Prophet it is the interest of the Nation to remain neutral, and hold
                            our father by the hand. My Chiefs and warriors now present, I hope this will be the answer
                            that you will send to our great father.9
                  
                    
            
            The battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     was fought on November 7, 1811, almost within sound of some of the Miami villages, but
                    these proud warriors did not take part in it. One of the last in line of descent of the Miami Chiefs
                    of the Mississinewa, Gabriel Godfroy, who lived and died on the Mississinewa, said on the
                    battlefield of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     at a great Indian gathering there on June 16, 1907: 
                        My people, the Miamis, made peace with the whites in 
                                Washington
                            's time [Greenville] and never violated it. My people did not take part
                            in the Battle of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            . If they had, the result would have been different, for it was very close
                            anyhow. The red men made their treaties and kept them, but the white men did not.10
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  8
                        Ibid., 677.
               
                  9
                        Ibid., 680.
               
                  10 Benj. F. Stuart, History of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Vdlez, 238. See 237-239 for address of Gabriel Godfroy delivered at
                        Battleground, Indiana, on June 16, 1907.
            
            
            At the time of the battle Tecumseh was far away in the South, visiting his mother's people,
                    the Creek Indians, for the purpose of enlisting them in his continental confederacy. He had left
                    positive orders that there should be no bloodshed in his absence and was greatly disappointed and
                    outraged when he learned on his return of the disastrous effect of the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . It had frustrated all his plans for this region. But he began earnestly and patiently
                    to lay plans for a new confederacy and for that purpose he called a great council of twelve tribes
                    on the Mississinewa.
            This council was held on May 15, 1812, at an Indian village on the west side of the Mississinewa,
                    just across from the present circus winter quarters near 
                        Peru
                    , about a mile from its confluence with the 
                        Wabash
                    . This was called the Osage Village, though it was purely a Miami village, because a
                    chief named Osage, who was probably descended from the Osages, was a prominent leader at that place.
                    Some of the sessions may have been held at the Godfroy Village on the other side of the Mississinewa
                    and over a mile east of the Osage Village. Here the Godfroy Cemetery is now located on a bluff
                    overlooking the 
                        Wabash
                    .
            Fortunately, we have an exact and authentic report of the main proceedings of this council in
                    writing. Captain William Wells, adopted son and son-in-law of Little Turtle, whose remarkable career
                    as a white Indian boy runs through an important chapter of the history of the Miamis and who often
                    visited the Mississinewa villages with Chief Little Turtle, was present at this council and
                    interpreted and transcribed the principal speeches. His transcript was given to Governor Harrison
                    and filed with the War Department. The transcript is dated May 15, 1812, and was signed by William
                    Wells on May 24. The Indian speeches recorded therein follow: 
                        [Address of the Wyandotts]
                        Younger brothers, you that reside on the 
                                Wabash
                            , listen to what we say; and in order that you may distinctly hear and clearly
                            understand our words, we now open your ears and place your hearts in the same position that
                            it was placed by the Great Spirit when he created you.
                        Younger brothers, we are sorry to see your path filled with thorns and briers, and your land
                            covered with blood; our love for you has caused us to come and clean your paths and wipe the
                            blood off your land, and take the weapons that have spilled this blood from you, and put
                            them where you can never reach them again.
                        
                        Younger brothers, this is done by the united voice of all your elder brothers, that you now
                            see present, who are determined to not be disobeyed. The determination of your elder
                            brothers, to put an entire stop to the effusion of blood, has met with the approbation of
                            our fathers, the British, who have advised all the red people to be quiet and not meddle in
                            quarrels that may take place between the white people.
                        [Tecumseh's Reply]
                        Elder brothers, we have listed with attention to what you have said to us; we now pity
                            ourselves; our hearts are good; they never were bad. Governor Harrison made war on my people
                            in my absence: it was the will of God that he should do so. We hope it will please God that
                            the white people may let us live in peace; we will not disturb them, neither have we clone
                            it; except when they come to our village with the intention of destroying us. We are happy
                            to state to our brothers present, that the unfortunate transaction that took place between
                            the white people and a few of our younger men at our village, has been settled between us
                            and Governor Harrison; and I will further state, that had I been at home, there would have
                            been no blood shed at that time. We are sorry to find that the same respect has not been
                            paid to the agreement between us and Governor Harrison, by our brothers, the Potawatomies,
                            however, we are not accountable for the conduct of those over whom we have no control; let
                            the chiefs of that nation exert themselves, and cause their warriors to behave themselves,
                            as we have and will continue to do ours.
                        Should the bad acts of our brothers, the Potawatomies, draw on us the ill-will of our white
                            brothers, and they should come again and make an unprovoked attack on us at our village, we
                            will die like men, but we will never strike the first blow.
                        [Address by the Potawatomies]
                        We are glad that it should please the Great Spirit for us tot meet today, and incline all our
                            hearts for peace.
                        Some of the foolish young men of our tribe, that have for some winters past ceased to listen
                            to the voice of their chiefs, and followed the counsel of the Shawnee, that pretended to be
                            a Prophet, have killed some of our white brothers this spring, at different places. We have
                            believed that they were encouraged in this mischief by this pretended Prophet, who, we know,
                            has taken great pains to detach them from their own chiefs and attach them to himself. We
                            have no control over these few vagabonds, and consider them not belonging to our nation; and
                            will be thankful to any people that will put them to death, wherever they are found. As they
                            are bad people, and have learnt to be so from the pretended prophet, ad as he has been the
                            cause of setting those people on our white brother, we hope he will be active in reconciling
                            them. As we all hear him say, his heart is inclined for peace, we hope we may all see that
                            declaration supported by his future conduct and that all our women, and children may lay
                            down to sleep without fear. The future conduct of the Potawatomies will evince the great
                            desire they have to effect this desirable object.
                        
                        [Tecumseh's Reply]
                        It is true, we have endeavored to give all our brothers good advice; and if they have not
                            listened to it, we are sorry for it. We defy a living creature to say we ever advised any
                            one, directly or indirectly, to make war on our white brothsrs. It has constantly been our
                            misfortune to have our views misrepresented to our white brothers; this has been done by
                            pretended chiefs of the Potawatomies and others, that have been in the habit of selling land
                            to thr? white people that did not belong to them.
                        [The Delawares to Tecumseh]
                        We have not met at this place to listen to such words. The red people have been killing the
                            whites, the just resentment of the latter is raised against the former. Our white brethren
                            are on their feet, their guns in their hands, there is no time for us to tell each other you
                            have done this, and you have done that; if there was, we would tell the Prophet that both
                            the red and white people had felt the bad effect of his counsels. Let us all join our hearts
                            and hands together, and proclaim peace through the land of the red people. Let us make our
                            voices be heard and respected, and rely on the justice of our white brethren.
                        [Address by the Miamis]
                        We feel happy that we all appear of one mind, that we all appear to be inclined for peace;
                            that we all see that it would be our immediate ruin to go to war with the white people.
                        We, the Miamis, have not hurt our white brethren since the treaty of Greenville. We would be
                            glad if all of the other nations present could say the same; we will cheerfully join our
                            brethren for peace, but we will not join you for war against the white people.
                        We hope our brothers, the Potawatomies, Shawnees, Kickapoos, and Winnebagoes, will keep their
                            warriors in good order, and learn them to pay more respect to their women and children than
                            they have done by going and murdering the inocent white people. The white people are
                            entitled to satisfaction; it is the interest of the Indians to give it to them immediately.
                            Let us do justice to our white brethren and expect justice from them; by doing this, we
                            shall insure the future peace and happiness of our women, and children.
                        [Address by the Kickapoos]
                        Elder brothers, we, your younger brothers, have listened to all you have said with attention.
                            It only remains for us to say, that we are glad to hear you say you have pity on our women
                            and children and wish to stop the effusion of our blood. We have settled our disputes with
                            Governor Harrison, and are sorry the Potawatomies have not acted more like men than they
                            have done, by killing the white people after we had made peace with them.
                        We have not two faces, and despise the people that have. The peace we have made with Governor
                            Harrison we will strictly adhere to, and trouble no person and hope none will trouble us.11
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  11
                        Messages and Letters of Harrison, II, 60-63, for the several addresses and
                        replies here quoted.
            
            
            Tecumseh went directly from this council to join the British in 
                        Canada
                    , where he was made a Brigadier General in the British army and given command of all the
                    warriors among the Indian allies of the British in the West. The War of 1812 began on June 18, and
                    its effects were quickly felt by the Miamis. The Indians all about became very restless during the
                    late summer and fall of 1812. The surrender of 
                        Detroit
                     by General Hull in August had a tremendous effect upon their minds as to the increasing
                    power of the British and it was quickly followed by a series of hostile outbreaks all along the
                    immediate border of the Indian country.
            The massacre of Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     occurred on August 15, 1812, the Pigeon Roost Massacre on September 4, and the attack
                    on Fort Harrison on the same day. The siege of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     culminated the next week, September 12. Some of the Miamis became involved in these
                    outbreaks. They had lost in the meantime two of their greatest leaders for peace. Little Turtle died
                    at the home of his son-in-law, William Wells, on Spy Run Avenue in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     on July 14, 1812, and William Wells was killed a few weeks later, fighting heroically
                    during the massacre of Fort 
                        Dearborn
                    .
            It was clear that a great many Miami warriors of the lower 
                        Wabash
                     (the Weas, or Ouiatenons) participated in the attack on Fort Harrison and that those of
                    the upper Wabasli and of the Eel River tribe were engaged in the siege of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . Because of their strategic position, the Mississinewa villages became central meeting
                    places for hostile bands and for the gathering of supplies and for councils of war. This caused
                    General Harrison, who had resigned his position as Governor of Indiana Territory to become the
                    commander-in-chief of the American forces in the West, to strike a blow at the Miamis of the
                    Mississinewa. This measure was determined, not so much for the purpose of destroying these people as
                    it was for the purpose of destroying their villages and making it impossible that this strategic
                    area should be used for conferences and supplies by Indian enemies. Consequently on November 25,
                    1812, General Harrison issued the military order to Lieutenant-Colonel 
                        Campbell
                    , in which he set forth fully the entire situation and his purposes concerning it:
                        
                        Sir: The object of the command which has been assigned to you is the attack and destruction
                            of the Miami villages at Mississinewa.
                        
                        The three small tribes which compose what they call the Miami nation were very lately
                            assembled there viz, the Miamis proper whose residence it is, the Eel
                            River tribe and the Wea tribe. The latter had participated in the attack upon
                            Fort Harrison and the former in that upon Fort 
                                Wayne
                             and their warriors have been concerned in several of the murders committed upon
                            our citizens. There are however soma of the chiefs who have undeviatingly exerted themselves
                            to keep their warriors quiet, to preserve their friendly relations with us. This has been
                            the case with respect to Richardville (a half Frenchman the 2nd Chief of the Miamis) Silver
                            Heels and White Loon certainly, and perhaps of Pecon the Principal Chief of the Miamis and
                            Charley the Principal Chief of the Eel River tribe. It is not my wish
                            that you should run any risk in saving those people but if it can be done without risk it
                            would be extremely gratifying to me and no doubt to the President. The same remark will also
                            apply to the sons and brothers of the Little Turtle who continued to his last moment the
                            warm friend of the 
                                United States
                             and who in the course of his life rendered them many important services. Your
                            own character as a soldier and that of the troops you command is a sure guarantee of the
                            safety of the women and children. They will be taken however and conducted to the
                                settlement.12
                  
                    
            
            The order explained that the blow was to be aimed at the place rather than the people. 
                        The hostilities which have been actually committed upon us by the Miamis justify our
                            considering them enemies. They would not however have been attacked at this time but for the
                            facility which their towns affords to the other tribes to attack our settlements and the
                            convoys of the left wing of the army. The whole of the provisions must therefore be
                            destroyed and the towns burned.13
                  
                    
            
            Specific exception was made of the Godfroy family, of which many direct descendants are living in
                    that vicinity today, a short distance from 
                        Peru
                    : 
                        There are probably some white men at Mississinewa but I am uncertain whether they are
                            citizens of the 
                                United States
                             or not. The safe way will be not to kill them if it can be prevented. An old
                            Canadian by the name of Godfroy has lived there several years and has a squaw for his wife
                            and he is and always has been a friend of the 
                                United States
                            . There will be no difficulty in saving him as his house is apart from the
                                rest.14
                  
                    
            
            The General's order was carried into effect immediately. Early winter was thought to be a
                    good time to strike the Indians, as they would not be expecting an attack and would be poorly
                    prepared for it. Lieutenant-Colonel 
                        Campbell
                    , with 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 228.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 228.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 228.
               
                     six hundred of the rank and file of the American Army, left Fort
                    Greenville, 
                        Ohio
                    , on December 14 and after a forced march of three days first reached the Mississinewa
                    at a point about five miles north and west of the site of the present City of 
                        Marion
                    . Colonel 
                        Campbell
                     made a very complete report of the entire expedition on Christmas Day, 1812, in which
                    he said: 
                        The first two days I marched forty miles, the third day I pushed the troops as much as they
                            could bear, marched the whole night although excessively cold stopping twice to refreshen
                            and warm. This day and night we marched forty miles. Early in morning of the 17th I reached
                            undiscovered an Indian town on the Mississinewa inhabited by a mixture of Delawares and
                            Miamis. The troops rushed into the town killed eight warriors and took forty-two prisoners
                            eight of whom are warriors, the residue women and children. I ordered the town to be
                            immediately burnt, a house or two excepted in which I confined the prisoners and I ordered
                            the cattle and other stock to be shot. I then left the infantry to guard the prisoners and
                            with Simrall's and Balls Dragoons advanced to some Miami villages a few miles lower
                            down the Mississinewa, but found them evacuated by all but a sick squaw whom we left in her
                            house. I burnt on this excursion three considerable villages, took several horses and killed
                            a great many cattle, and returned to the town I first burnt where I had left the prisoners
                            and encamped. My camp was in the usual form but covered more ground than common.15
                  
                    
            
            In his first brief report written at this camp on the morning of December 18, Colonel 
                        Campbell
                     called it "Camp on the Mississinewa Two Miles Above Silver Heels
                    Town". Evidently Silver Heels Town was one of the three villages destroyed on the preceding
                    day by the expedition during which the destroying troops went as far as the mouth of Jocina Creek
                    some three miles down the Mississinewa from this camp.
            It was the plan to proceed with the main army on the 18th down the Mississinewa to its confluence
                    with the 
                        Wabash
                    , destroying all the villages along the way according to General Harrison's
                    orders. But the army got no farther. During the night, the Miami braves, frorn all their
                    Mississinewa villages, outraged by this unprovoked attack, as they viewed it, hurriedly assembled in
                    one desperate band and attacked the American camp on all sides before daylight of the 18th. So then
                    and there the Battle of the Mississinewa was fought in the dark 
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 264-256.
               
                     and in the cold and snow of early winter. The Colonel's
                    report is replete with graphic details: 
                        At four in the morning of the lath, I ordered the reveille to be beaten, and the officers
                            convened at my fire. A short time afterwards, whilst we were in council and about half an
                            hour before day, my camp was most furiously attacked by a large party of Indians preceded by
                            and accompanied with a most hideous yell. This immediately broke up the council and every
                            man ran to his post…. The enemy boldly advanced to within a few yards of the
                            lines and seemed determined to rush in. The guards posted at the different redoubts
                            retreated into camp and dispersed among their different companies thus leaving me without a
                            disposable force…. The enemy then took possession of Captain Pierce's
                            redoubt and poured in a tremendous fire upon the angle to the right and left of which were
                            posted Hopkins' and Garrard's troops but the fire was as warmly returned,
                            not an inch of ground was yielded, every man, officer and soldier, stood firm and animated
                            and encouraged each other16
                  
                    
            
            It was a desperate and unequal engagement, bravely fought on both sides. The Indians were compelled
                    to withdraw soon after daylight leaving some of their dead upon the field. The official report says
                    as to the killed and wounded: 
                        From the enclosed list you will see the names and numbers of the killed and wounded, eight
                            being killed and forty-eight wounded two of whom are since dead. The enemy paid dearly for
                            their temerity. From the trails through the snow and those found dead, we could not have
                            killed less than thirty which with those killed the day before amounts to thirty-eight. The
                            enemy did not take a scalp. The Indian who killed Captain Pierce attempted to scalp him but
                            was killed. Major Ball informs me that he can say with confidence that there never were
                            officers and soldiers who displayed more cool, firm and soldierly conduct, than those of his
                                squadron.17
                  
                    
            
            Colonel 
                        Campbell
                    's report to General Harrison abounds with superlative commendation of
                    individual officers, soldiers and companies and does some justice to the courageous Miamis in the
                    following flourish: 
                        I have now, my dear Sir, detailed to you the particulars of an engagement bravely fought and
                            victory gloriously won after contending most warmly for at least an hour. From the length of
                            our line simultaneously attacked by them I am persuaded there could not have been less than
                            three hundred of the enemy. They fought most bravely. My strength on the morning of the
                            action was about five hundred and ninety rank and file—a considerable proportion
                            of whom, amounting to at least forty or 
                        
                           16
                                    Ibid., 256-257.
                        
                           17
                                    Ibid., 259.
                     
                             fifty, were almost rendered unfit for duty by the
                            severity of the weather. Some were so badly frost bitten as to be scarcely able to walk.
                            There never was severer service performed by any troops and yet there is not a murmur.18
                  
                    
            
            An unusually large number of horses were killed, some of them probably from jumping or falling over
                    the steep declivity that flanks the battlefield, and breaking their necks on the icy Mississinewa
                    below.
            The army went no further down the Mississinewa, but returned to Greenville as rapidly as possible, in
                    constant fear of another attack by the Indians. The Colonel said: 
                        I shall not be surprised to learn that Tecumseh commanded in the action against me. Let him
                            be who he may, he was a gallant fellow and manuevered well. William Conner thinks it was
                            Little Thunder (nephew to the Little Turtle) from his loud voice, which he knew. He heard
                            him ordering his men in the Miami language to rush on, that they [American soldiers] would
                            soon retreat.19
                  
                    
            
            Tecumseh was not there. It is now believed that the leader was Francis Godfroy, Pa-long-wa, a
                    stalwart youth who had recently been made a Miami war chief. The Miamis fought alone. They never
                    fought again as a nation.
            It should be given distinct emphasis that this was an important battle of the War of 1812. Although
                    it did not effect the immediate military object of General Harrison in actually destroying all the
                    villages on the Mississinewa, yet it did accomplish effectively his main purpose. It struck terror
                    to the hearts of the Indians of this region and prevented them from actively participating in the
                    war which they might have done otherwise under the leadership of Tecumseh. So it served that purpose
                    as a cruel necessity of war.
            On the other hand it is gratifying to reflect that the heroic efforts of those Miami braves in the
                    cold and snow of early dawn on that December day in 1812 also accomplished their main purpose. They
                    saved their homes on the lower Mississinewa and were not compelled to move from that loved place.
                    They saved their squaws and papooses. Considering all the elements involved, this battleground is
                    more vivid with human and historic associations than some greater battlefields of 
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 260-261.
                  
                            19
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     America that are much better known. It is a unique memorial site
                    by reason of its scenic beauty and its historic interest.
            Following the War of 1812 and the admission of Indiana into the union as a state in 1816, white
                    settlers encroached rapidly upon the Indian country. It was clear that the race was doomed. The
                    Indian paradise on the Mississinewa was one of the last of the wilderness fastnesses of the middle
                    west to be invaded by white civilization.
            The year 1835 marks an epochal base line for that region. In that year 
                        Wabash County
                     was legally organized embracing within its boundaries some twelve or fourteen miles of
                    the middle section of the Mississinewa. This included several villages of the Miamis, the best known
                    of which was Deaf Man's Village located around a wonderful ever-flowing spring about eight
                    miles from the junction of the Mississinewa with the 
                        Wabash
                    .20
            
            During the years 1834 and 1835, 
                        Miami County
                     was also organized, including in its boundaries the last seven miles of the
                    Mississinewa. There were a number of important Indian settlements along this final scenic stretch of
                    the river, among which were the Osage Village near the mouth of the river on the western side and
                    the Godfroy Village directly across the river on the eastern side where the circus winter quarters
                    now are. At the same time (1834-35), the town site of 
                        Peru
                     was laid out, and the village was started and officially designated as the county seat
                    of the county of Miami. The 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                     Canal was in course of construction through 
                        Wabash
                     and Miami Counties.
            Fifty-seven years had passed since the great Miamis in the pride of their pagan power had counselled
                    with the British there at the mouth of the Mississinewa and had rejected the tempting offers of
                    Colonel 
                        Hamilton
                    . Although this region was still their home and although their traditions of pride and
                    power were fresh in their minds, most of their pride and strength had vanished. White men's
                    trading posts were being established throughout the region and the Indians were gradually succumbing
                    to white civilization. They were slowly taking on white ways and their aboriginal strength was being
                    rapidly depleted by white influences.
            
               
                  20 Shepoconah, The deaf Miami Chief who founded the village, died In
                    1833.
            
            
            Within this epochal year of 1835, there was brought to light in the heart of this Miami country on
                    the Mississinewa a famous wilderness mystery. At Deaf Man's Village, by the famous
                    ever-flowing spring that is still there exactly now as then, the "Little Lost Sister of the 
                        Wyoming
                    " was discovered. Fifty-seven years had flown since little Frances Slocum, five
                    years old, had been spirited away from her happy childhood home on the distant Susquehanna. Her
                    strong and faithful brothers had never ceased to search for her. It had become a continental mystery
                    and the active search had reached far and wide among Indian villages nearly everywhere throughout
                    the Middle West, but it had never penetrated this secluded Miami region of the Mississinewa.
            One night in January, 1835, Colonel George W. Ewing, a prominent trader from the little town of 
                        Logansport
                    , came to Deaf Man's village and spent the night in the home of old
                    Ma-con-a-qua, widow of Chief Shepoconah. The aged widow of the Chief could not speak English, but
                    Ewing knew the Miami language and conversed freely with her. He saw that she was an unusual woman,
                    to be in an Indian home, and that there was more than Indian order and cleanliness about the place.
                    She was treated with marked respect by every member of the Indian family. Though her face had been
                    darkened by exposure, he noted that the skin of her upper arm, when the ruffled sleeve turned up,
                    was fairly white.
            She seemed touched by his friendly interest and asked him to remain by the fire after the other
                    members of the family had retired. She said: "I have something on my mind. I am old and
                    weak. I shan't live long and I must tell it. I can't die in peace if I
                    don't." Then with much evidence of emotion and with great hesitancy stopping often
                    with her hand to her ear and turning her head half round from time to time with Indian alertness,
                    she told him the wonderful story of her life. She was Frances Slocum. Thus a wilderness mystery and
                    a race romance came to light that night on the Mississinewa. The "Little Lost Sister of the 
                        Wyoming
                    " was the "White Rose of the Miamis".
            Colonel Ewing had never before heard of that wilderness mystery of Revolutionary days. He was deeply
                    impressed by the story and wrote a full account for eastern papers, in which he paid this tribute to
                    the old white Indian woman: 
                    
                        She has lived long and happily as an Indian and, but for her color, would not be suspected of
                            being anything else than such. She is very respectable and wealthy, sober and honest. Her
                            name is without reproach.21
                  
                    
            
            It was more than two full years before this report reached the Slocums in their eastern homes. They
                    came—two brothers and a sister—in September, 1837, to Deaf Man's
                    Village on the Mississinewa. There they found the wrinkled old Ma-con-a-qua and they knew at once
                    that she was their long lost Frances. Although in her faded hair no trace remained of the fine
                    chestnut red that had made little Frances beautiful, the Slocum family likeness was plainly stamped
                    upon her features.
            They were overwhelmed with emotion, but she was stolid as if a real Indian. A poet has described that
                    affecting scene: 
                        They found her there—the one for whom They searched as for a gem; And sore they
                            wept, as memory brought The dreamlike past to them. But she was calm and passionless And as
                            a statue still; There were no chords within her breast At memory's touch to
                                thrill.22
                  
                    
            
            The brothers went out to look around her place and to see how well she was situated with her wealth
                    of land and livestock. She did not accompany them and when they returned, she was sitting on the
                    ground in front of the cabin scraping a deer skin with a knife and did not look up. She was quite
                    reserved and could scarcely be induced to talk to them. To get her out of this Indian environment,
                    they persuaded her to visit them in the little village of 
                        Peru
                     the next day. She came on horseback in gala attire, with all the members of her family,
                    riding astride single file in Indian fashion along the scenic Indian trail by the Mississinewa (now
                    the Frances Slocum Trail) and met her brothers and sister in a little tavern where the Bearss Hotel
                    now stands. She brought a fresh venison ham wrapped in a clean white cloth, which was offered and
                    accepted as an Indian pledge of friendship. Then she became more communicative.
            
               
                  21 John F. Meginness, Biography of Frances Slocum, 40.
               
                  22
                        Ibid., 58.
            
            
            A pathetic incident occurred during the conference at the tavern. Worn out by those strange
                    surroundings, Frances slipped away and was found soon after lying fast asleep on the back porch,
                    where she had gone to rest outside and to be alone for awhile. It was indeed true of her as Dr.
                    Peck, who knew her well, wrote: 
                        She looked like an Indian, talked like an Indian, lived like an Indian, seated herself like
                            an Indian, ate like an Indian, lay down to sleep like an Indian, thought, felt, and reasoned
                            like an Indian; she had no longings for her original home or the society of her kindred; she
                            eschewed the trammels of civilized life and could only breatha freely in the great un-fenced
                            out-doors, which God gave the Red Man!23
                  
                    
            
            The story of Frances Slocum is fully verified history and will live forever as a wilderness race
                    romance. Gradually all the facts of her eventful life came out. She remembered in her Indian old age
                    every detail of her capture and adoption as a white child. She remembered that the three Indians who
                    captured her on November 2, 1778, ran far into the forest and over the mountain before they camped
                    that first night in a cave. They traveled north several days to a 
                        Delaware
                     village, carrying her all day and making a soft bed of leaves for her at night. She was
                    adopted by an old 
                        Delaware
                     chief and squaw and became their child. They were very proud and jealous of her. They
                    kept her hid from white people and taught her to mistrust all whites. They dressed her rich red hair
                    in beautiful Indian style. Sometimes they painted her face and bedecked her with fine Indian beads
                    and rich wampum. All the Indians admired her, almost with superstition, because of her beautiful
                    hair. They called her Ma-con-a-qua (Female Lion or Little Bear Woman), because she was so strong and
                    swift.
            For several years, up to the end of the Revolution in 1783, she lived among the northern wilds within
                    the sound of 
                        Niagara Falls
                    . Then they came farther west with her to what is now Indiana soil. She lived for about
                    twenty-five years at Kekionga (now Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ) and at the Eel River Miami village some fifteen miles away. She
                    was an eye witness to all the stirring history from 1790 to 1795—the campaigns of Harmar,
                    St. Clair, and 
                        Wayne
                    . She was first married to a 
                        Delaware
                    , who treated her badly and soon ran away. Then, while 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 72.
               
                     living at the Miami village, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , she married the Miami chief, She-Po-con-ah, and lived with him happily. Her two sons
                    and two daughters were born there. She thought they moved to the Mississinewa about the time of the
                    Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    —or maybe a little after, but at least before 1815. They lived first at Osage
                    Village, near the mouth of the river but soon established their own settlement at the wonderful
                    spring—Deaf Man's Village. Her Chief, She-Po-con-ah, did not fight in the Battle
                    of the Mississinewa. Frances influenced her friends among the Miamis to keep peace with the whites.
                    They regarded her almost as a prophetess.
            A very interesting and authentic description of the "White Rose of the Miamis" was
                    given in 1907 by Chief Gabriel Godfroy, who knew her well and who married her granddaughter: 
                        I often saw Frances Slocum. She looked like a squaw, not like a white woman. She was a pretty
                            large woman, but not very tall. Her picture looks like her. Frances was a very stout young
                            girl. She would break ponies and could jump on ponies when they were running. One day when
                            she was living with her 
                                Delaware
                             father, she found a wounded. Indian leaning against a tree. She and her 
                                Delaware
                             Indian father took this Indian, who was a Miami, and nursed him back to health.
                            When he got well he hunted [game] for the 
                                Delaware
                            , who was getting old, to pay him for taking care of him. When the Delaware came
                            to die, he said to the man, 'You have been good to me. You shall have this white
                            woman for a wife.' So after the death of the 
                                Delaware
                            , this Miami who was deaf, took Frances as his wife and went back among the
                            Miamis, where he had been chief soldier, and became chief and lived at Deaf Man's
                            Village, on the Mississinewa24
                  
                    
            
            After spending several days with her and seeing and hearing all these things, the two brothers, Isaac
                    and Joseph Slocum, and sister, Mary, pleaded with Frances to go back with them to the old home of
                    her mother which was still waiting for her. There she could have the comforts of civilization and be
                    taught the true religion of her parents. She answered sadly, but firmly: 
                        No, I cannot. I have always lived with the Indians; they have always used me very kindly; I
                            am used to them. The Great Spirit has always allowed me to live with them, and I wish to
                            live and die with them…. This is my home…. My husband and my boys are
                            buried here, and I cannot leave them. On his dying day my 
                        
                           24 Stuart, History of the 
                                            Wabash
                                         and Valley, 238-239.
                     
                             husband charged me not to leave the Indians. I have a
                            house and large lands, two daughters, a son-in-law, three grandchildren, and everything to
                            make me comfortable; why should I go and be like a fish out of water?
                    
            
            Her daughters, Cut Finger and Yellow Leaf, who sat near by, agreed with her. One of them said:
                    "The fish dies quickly out of water." And the other added: "The deer will
                    not live out of the forest."
            Then her brothers and sister begged her to come with them only for a visit. To this she replied:
                        
                        I cannot, I cannot, I am an old tree. I cannot move about. I was a sapling when they took me
                            away. It is all gone past. I am afraid I should die and never come back. I am happy here. I
                            shall die here and lie in that graveyard, and they will raise the pole at my grave with the
                            white flag on it, and the Great Spirit will know where to find me. I should not be happy
                            with my white relatives. I am glad enough to see them, but I cannot go, I cannot go. I have
                                done.25
                  
                     She would not leave her Indian home on her loved Mississinewa and she was satisfied with
                    her Indian religion.
            Two years later in the fall of 1839, Joseph Slocum came again with two of his grown daughters to
                    visit his sister Frances—still Ma-con-a-qua, the Indian Chief's widow of Deaf
                    Man's Village. While there, Joseph arranged for a young artist, George Winter, of 
                        Logansport
                     to paint a picture of his aged sister in her home on the Mississinewa. The hand written
                    journal of George Winter recounting his experiences in executing that mission to Deaf Man's
                    Village, beautifully embellished by artistic illustrations throughout, has recently been procured in
                    its original form and is now preserved in the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Museum. The young artist went on foot from 
                        Peru
                     to Deaf Man's Village. With artistic appreciation, he noted the scenic wonder
                    of the way as well as the historic significance. He waded the Mississinewa between the Osage and
                    Godfroy villages and wrote this significant comment: 
                        A genial sun rested upon the pleasant scenery of the Mississinewa. We rested upon the banks
                            of the river; regaled ourselves by smoking our Havanas, preparatory to our fording the
                            stream which swept by rapidly giving forth the sweet liquid music peculiar to rushing
                            waters…. The scenes around us were primitive—full of nature's
                            loveliness, and enjoyable.
                    
            
            
               
                  25 Meginness. Frames Slocum, 71.
            
            
            He approached Deaf Man's Village from the opposite side of the river and made this notation
                    of his first view of Frances and her home: 
                        On arriving at the ford, I saluted the village. The captive woman appeared in the hallway
                            that was between the two wings of her log cabin. It was one of the substantial old-fashioned
                            quadrangular 'forest mansions'—such as the thrifty farmer
                            builds when his interests expand and his family becomes enlarged26
                  
                    
            
            The pictures that George Winter made of Frances Slocum, her home and various members of her family,
                    of Chief Francis Godfroy and other persons and places on the Mississinewa, are invaluable for the
                    light they cast upon the human and historic interest, as well as the scenic loveliness of that
                    favored region.
            The next few years brought melancholy history to these simple people along the Mississinewa. On May
                    1, 1840, Francis Godfroy, the last great war chief of the Miamis, passed away at his magnificent Mt.
                    Pleasant home near the junction of the Mississinewa and 
                        Wabash
                    . There he had lived in rude feudal splendor, maintaining a great trading station,
                    administering justice and dispensing hospitality to his people with powerful and ready hands. He was
                    a man of giant stature and stately appearance—over six feet tall and weighing 340 pounds.
            He had succeeded She-po-con-ah, husband of Frances, as principal chief, when the Deaf Man became too
                    old for the service and he had ever been the faithful friend and counsellor of Ma-con-a-qua. His
                    funeral on the hillside opposite his home, where the Godfroy Cemetery now is, was attended by all
                    the sorrowing Miamis and hundreds of white people who came to show their respect for the
                    great-hearted, broad-minded chief. Wappapinchi, "Black Raccoon", a minor chief and
                    a noted orator of the Miamis, is buried near the grave of Chief Godfroy on the spot where he
                    delivered the following funeral oration for his great chief: 
                        Brothers: The Great Spirit has taken to himself another of our once powerful and happy, but
                            now rapidly declining, nation. The time has been when these forests were densely populated
                            by the red man; but the same hand whose blighting touch withered the majestic frame before
                            US and caused the noble spirit by which it was animated to seek another 
                        
                           26 Journal of George Winter.
                     
                             abode, has dealt in a like manner with his and our
                            fathers; in a like manner it will deal with us. Death, of late, has been common among
                            us—so much so that an occurrence of it scarcely attracts our notice. But when the
                            brave, the generous, and the patriotic are blasted by it, then it is that the tears of our
                            sorrow freely flow.
                        Such is now the case. Our brother who has just left us was brave, generous, and patriotic,
                            and as a tribute to his merit and a reward for his goodness, the tears not only of his own
                            people, but also of many white men, who are here assembled to witness these funeral rites,
                            mingle in sorrow over the death of one they loved.
                        At this scene the poor of his people weep, because at his table they were wont to feast and
                            rejoice. The weak mourn his death, because his authority was ever directed to their
                            protection. But he has left the earth, the place of vexation and contention and is now
                            participating with Pocahontas and Logan in those joys prepared by the Great Spirit for such
                            as well and faithfully discharged their duties here. Brothers, let us follow his example and
                            practice his virtues.27
                  
                    
            
            During the two years, 1838-40, shortly after the death of Chief Godfroy, the Miamis concluded their
                    last great treaty with the 
                        United States
                     at the forks of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Little River near 
                        Huntington
                    . They had already sold part of their land in a treaty made at Treaty Creek near the
                    mouth of the Mississinewa and Treaty Spring in the City of 
                        Wabash
                     in 1826. In their last treaty, concluded in 1840, they agreed to give up all their
                    lands south of the 
                        Wabash
                     and to take up their homes beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                     within five years. It was one of the last sad chapters of the history of the Miamis on
                    the Mississinewa as a nation.
            Nothing in race history could be more touching and significant than the affecting incidents of the
                    relation of Frances Slocum to the passing of the Miami Indians from that ancestral site. As the time
                    drew near for the Indians to be taken away in 1845 and 1846, according to the treaty, the old woman
                    became greatly troubled. She did not want to leave the place which had been her home for more than
                    thirty years. She wanted to live and die there and be buried by her chief and her children.
            Through the influence of her brothers and her white friends at 
                        Peru
                    , a petition was presented to Congress asking that she be permitted to keep that home
                    and receive her tribal annuities there with her children and grandchildren. It recited the main
                    facts of her life asserting: 
                  
                     27 Meginness, Frances Slocum, 214-215.
               
                    
                    
                        That she is too old to endure the fatigue of removing; and that under any circumstances she
                            would deplore the necessity of being placed beyond the reach of her white relatives, who
                            visit her frequently, and have extended their kindness towards her since she was discovered
                            by them. That her children are the owners of a section of land granted to them by the treaty
                            between the 
                                United States
                             and said tribe of Indians of the sixth of November, A.D. 1838, who now reside
                            upon and cultivate the same, and with whom your memorialist now lives, and that it is the
                            wish and design of her children and their families, if it be the pleasure of the Government,
                            to continue to reside upon and cultivate the same.28
                  
                    
            
            This petition was supported by Judge Alphonso A. Cole of 
                        Peru
                     in a vigorous written argument: 
                        She says she has lived a life of hardships and is now quite old, and wishes to spend the
                            remainder of her days among her children, on their lands here; and she does not see why her
                            great white father should not grant them the same privilege to remain here upon their lands,
                            and receive their annuities here, as have been granted to some other families. I am well
                            acquainted with the old lady, and all of her connexions which she alludes to, and feel
                            authorized to say that they are respectable, honest, and, for Indians, uncommonly
                            industrious people, and, in every sense of the word, good orderly citizens.29
                  
                    
            
            On January 28, 1845, this petition was adopted by the Congress of the 
                        United States
                     as a joint resolution by unanimous consent, after a most eloquent address, attributed
                    to John Quincy Adams, which concluded with these words: 
                        Frances Slocum was taken from her white friends when, a child. She is now desirous of dying
                            among her red friends where she has lived for half a century without being compelled to
                            remove west of the 
                                Mississippi
                            . Let her first and last request be granted.
                    
            
            Frances Slocum saw the passing of the "noble Red Man" on the Mississinewa. There
                    she saw an Indian emporium supplanted by the white man's civilization. All of the Miami
                    Indians except a few selected families were removed in 1846. They were taken away from their homes
                    under military guard. They offered a sorrowful spectacle as they were accompanied by soldiers down
                    the Mississinewa and up the 
                        Wabash
                    , looking back for the last time upon their homes and the graves of their loved ones.
                    The empty Indian huts along the Mississinewa gradually crumbled to decay and graves of dear ones
                        
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 126-126.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 128.
               
                     were neglected. The Indian dogs that had to be left behind were
                    for many moons a touching reminder of the passing of a race.
            It is believed that Frances Slocum never recovered from the grief she felt at the passing of the
                    Indians from the Mississinewa. In her Indian character of Ma-con-a-qua, she continued to mourn the
                    departure of her red friends. She passed away peacefully the next year, March 9, 1847, at the age of
                    74. She died in the Indian faith, but was given Christian burial. Her young nephew, Reverend George
                    Slocum, who had been sent by his father, Isaac, to look after Frances the last year of her life,
                    offered prayer at the house and, assisted by another Baptist clergyman, conducted a brief ceremony
                    at the grave. Her brother, Isaac, too old and infirm to attend her burial, had a funeral sermon
                    preached for her in the Baptist Church at Bellevue, 
                        Ohio
                    , where he lived, from the eighth verse of the thirty-ninth chapter of Psalms:
                    "I am become a stranger unto my brethren and an alien unto my mother's
                    children."
            Frances Slocum (Ma-con-a-qua) could see no difference between the Great Spirit of the Indians and the
                    God of the white man. As she had always lived according to the teachings of her Indian parents, she
                    believed that the Great Spirit would find her out and take her to the Happy Hunting Grounds, where
                    her Indian chief and her Indian boys had already gone. A long pole with a white flag on it was
                    erected at her grave, according to the Miami custom. She is forever at rest near the wonderful
                    spring which still gives forth its bounteous waters just as when it slaked the thirst of the
                    "White Rose of the Miamis" for more than a generation.
            Her family and the Godfroys continued to live along the Mississinewa. In their descendants we see the
                    kinship of races and their natural amalgamation. Their cemeteries are mute memorials of race
                    romance. The Mississinewa—beautiful Falling Waters—flows on the same, rippling
                    with memories of a great and simple people. In the famous historic sites along its course, we see
                    our Miamis in three main aspects of their tribal character—warriors, counsellors, and
                    tender human beings. Let it be remembered in justice to a pagan race, that they took a tender white
                    child, kept her through a long life, and made her love them and become like them. When  found with them in her old age, the white man's historic
                    record of her was: "Her name is without reproach."
            
            This article has been confined to sites and episodes upon the Mississinewa of large significance.
                    Numerous other spots, events and persons, associated with later history on that interesting stream,
                    might well be elaborated with colorful human interest. More recent Indian history on the
                    Mississinewa is mostly of local and family significance. The last Miami Tribal Chief in Indiana was
                    Meshingomesia. He died in 1879 and lies buried in the Indian Cemetery back of the Indian Village
                    Church—still standing but almost a ruin—in sight of the the Mississinewa
                    Battleground. It is in the heart of the reservation granted to Chief Metocinyah, father of
                    Meshingomesia, in 1840. That reservation was dissolved and the land divided in 1873. The Indians
                    became citizens in 1880. That may be taken as the end of the final chapter of the passing of a race
                    on the Mississinewa.
            There are many colorful memorials to the Miamis all along this scenic stream from 
                        Marion
                     to 
                        Peru
                    . Most significant of all is the river itself—the musical Mis-sis-sin-e-wa of
                    the Miamis, to which these lines of Lydia H. Sigourney may be applied with peculiar fitness: 
                        Ye say that all have passed away—that noble race and brave, That their light
                            canoes have vanished from off the crested wave; That, 'mid the forests where they
                            roamed, there rings no hunter's shout, But their name is on your
                            waters—ye may not wash it out. Ye say their cone-like cabins that clustered
                            o'er the vale, Have fled away like withered leaves, before the autumn's
                            gale; But their memory liveth on your hills, their baptism on your shore, Your everlasting
                            rivers speak their dialect of yore.
                    
            
         
         
         
            A Tour in the George Rogers Clark Country
            By VIVA W. SPIETH
            
            From my personal acquaintance with that part of Indiana where General George Rogers Clark spent a
                    number of the years of his later life, I should like to take you on an imaginary tour of that area.
                    Although I have come to know the locality well, I see it largely through the eyes of my
                        mother-in-law,1 who, during her life time could tell remarkably fascinating
                    stories of the old Clark community, and those of my husband,2 who still regards
                    those hills and streams with the romantic imagination of the boy that he was when he roamed there.
            We start at my husband's home, located across the river from 
                        Louisville
                    , and between New 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , three cities that grew up at the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    . We shall stand first on ground that was once part of a small tract granted to Richard
                    Chenoweth for services rendered when under command of George Rogers Clark during the Revolutionary
                    War. All around us, but for the most part to the north and east, lie 150,000 acres of land, known as
                    Clark's Grant, which was awarded by the Commonwealth of 
                        Virginia
                     to Clark and his soldiers. This land was not of much value at the time of the gift, but
                    it was their only pay. I have read that few of the soldiers ever settled in the Grant. Nevertheless,
                    many of the present occupants bear names identical with names on the Clark roster, a fact which
                    justifies our believing them to be descendants of the soldiers whom Clark led at 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            Would you like a drink of cold spring water before we set out on a walking tour? At the well we look
                    down upon Silver Creek,3 called thus from a rock formation along the banks which
                    closely resembles silver ore. Assayers have proved that there is no particle of silver, but
                    geologists have found the rock formation to be interesting as well as the shale which forms the
                    cliffs, so high here that at our level we look into the tops of the trees which grow at the
                    water's edge. Exuding from crevices in the shale we see a yellow
                    substance—sulphur. A band of modern Indians who once presented Hiawatha nearby, 
                  
                     1 Mrs. Fred (Louisa) Spieth, Sr., who died in 1931.
                  
                     2 William H. Spieth of 
                                Lebanon
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     3 Silver Creek flows into the 
                                Ohio
                             between 
                                Jeffersonville
                             and New 
                                Albany
                            . It forms the boundary between Clark and Floyd Counties for a few miles from
                            the 
                                Ohio
                            .
               
                     having been told how their ancestors came long distances to
                    Silver Creek for sulphur, themselves scaled the cliffs to collect a quantity.
            Below us of a certainty once passed the canoes of the restless Shawnees. I am sure Clark's
                    boat knew the stream well. Tradition tells us that LaSalle once passed this way. There is no
                    documentary evidence to bear this out, but history does tell us it is possible that LaSalle passed
                    up the Ohio River on an exploring expedition. If so it is natural to believe
                    that, finding himself blocked by the Falls, he turned up Silver Creek. There is a romantic legend in
                    the community to the effect that LaSalle carried with him a treasure of gold. Being pursued by
                    Indians, he turned into Silver Creek and continuing to the third branch of the stream hid himself
                    among the bushes and buried the gold.
            When my husband's parents first moved to their farm in 
                        Jeffersonville
                     Township, 
                        Clark County
                    , many years ago, an old man in the neighborhood regularly dug for the hidden gold,
                    while an old lady claimed to have dreamed three nights in succession of the exact spot where it
                    could be found. Go back with me in time and sit with the young married couple on the wisteria shaded
                    porch of an old log cabin on a summer's evening. Presently in swampy ground not far away on
                    the farm we shall see the passage of a luminous ball of light; it settles at the foot of a tall
                    sycamore tree which stands beside the "third branch of Silver Creek." This
                    will-0'-the-wisp may point out the buried treasure, but we shall not investigate.
            In the logs of the cabin bullets were imbedded, and long after the family moved into their new home,
                    the children used to find musket balls in the ground as they played about the old house. It had
                    been, of course, the dwelling of some early pioneer, perhaps of William Foster, on whose grant the
                    cabin stood. Whoever dwelt there, undoubtedly the cabin home had been attacked by the roving
                    Shawnees, or other Indians on the warpath.
            We leave the farm now and follow Silver Creek going upstream along a winding, improved road,
                    originally laid off by General Clark, and shortly we come to Clark's Ford. Beyond the
                    shallow water we see a very narrow, rough, clay road, today as it was when Clark and his men cut
                    through the hill  probably at some time when setting out
                    northward against the Indians. The cut is kept clear of growth, and not many years ago a group of:
                    men found a cannon ball imbedded in the clay bank.
            We shall not follow the cut, but retrace our steps and proceed down stream about a mile when we shall
                    reach a spot near where Silver Creek empties into the 
                        Ohio
                    . We are upon what was an early wilderness road, paralleling the River. We turn eastward
                    and presently pass an old Indian burial ground. Boys used to haunt the place in search of relics,
                    for whenever high waters came they undermined somewhat the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                     and each spring found new treasures exposed. Many of the best relics found there are, I
                    believe, in a museum at Bor-den, Indiana. My husband once unearthed an Indian pendant of beautifully
                    polished green stone, perfectly pierced through the center.
            An old Indian told George Rogers Clark a legend about this spot, relating that once upon a time there
                    was a tribe of Indians whose skins were much lighter than those of the other tribes. These white
                    Indians fought a bitter battle with the dark-skinned Indians. The outcome was that they were
                    exterminated on a little island where they had taken refuge. The Indians slain in that battle were
                    buried here. Research has given credence at least to the fact that it was a burial place for
                    warriors who fell in battle, but no explanation has been made of a pottery field at one end of the
                    ground.
            Let us imagine we are making our tour in the spring. We breathe deeply of the fresh earthy odor
                    arising from rows of upturned sod left in the wake of some farmer's plow, while an
                    occasional "gee" or "haw" breaks the lazy silence of the fields.
                    Very high above us we hear a meadowlark's song, and upstream the low moaning whistle of a
                    steamboat.
            Along this old wilderness road farmers plow over six or seven oblong mounds of unique appearance and
                    size, at one time built by an early people. Clark, who was much interested in such matters, was
                    informed by an Indian chief that similar mounds in 
                        Illinois
                     had been built by their ancestors more than five hundred years before as palaces, but
                    an Indian of our locality explained that the mounds here were a mystery to their oldest and wisest
                    men.
            
            Presently we reach Clarksville4—a shabby little village where General
                    Clark dreamed of building the capital of a great new state. One thousand acres were set aside by the 
                        Virginia
                     legislature for the future city, and lots were laid off. Here Clark built the only home
                    of his own he ever knew after he left the parental roof. His parents had moved to 
                        Louisville
                     after the War of Independence where they died. The General spent several of his later
                    years at Clarksville, alone, bitter, disillusioned, often drunken, only a shell of that
                    high-spirited, gallant young man of twenty-five, who dared and accomplished so greatly that he did
                    much to win five future states for the Union, and that with but little bloodshed, supported by but a
                    few hundred men and meager resources. He who had sacrificed for his country love and marriage, who
                    had spent his own small fortune for military supplies, who had mortgaged his whole future life both
                    financially and physically, asking and receiving no pay, lived in poverty, neglected by his state
                    and his nation until near the end of his life.
            From his door facing the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     his baby brother, grown to manhood, started with Meriwether Lewis on the great western
                    expedition. Once came Audubon to consult with Clark about the birds and wild life of the country.
                    Here he was visited by his veterans and by friendly Indian chiefs. Here a victim of paralysis he
                    fell before his fireplace. Alone and unconscious his leg was burned so badly that it had to be
                    amputated. While the surgical operation was being performed, around and around the cabin marched
                    four friends playing two drums and two fifes while Clark beat time to the music. From here he was
                    borne to the home of his sister in 
                        Kentucky
                    , a short distance outside of 
                        Louisville
                    , where he died about ten years later.
            The log cabin is gone, but we stand near a small monument marking its location and look out over the
                    bluff upon the river he loved. A mile farther east, if the water were low enough, we could see a few
                    rocks, all that remains of the seventy-acre Corn Island from which as a base, the youthful Clark set
                    out for 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            We shall not continue beyond Clarksville up a picturesque cobblestone road, along which only fifty
                    years ago ox teams 
                  
                     4 Clarksville is on the north bank of the 
                                Ohio
                             east of Silver Creek and west of 
                                Jeffersonville
                            .
               
                     and donkeys yet transported baggage over the portage from the
                    head to the foot of the falls or vice versa. The old road remains, but the Falls
                    hardly exist now, for a canal and government dam have opened the river.
            Our tour is almost ended, but before we separate perhaps you would like to go into 
                        Louisville
                     to Cave Hill Cemetery. Here in company with several of his brothers, lies George Rogers
                    Clark with only a small marble slab to mark the site. He who originated, planned, and executed the
                    conquest of the Northwest rests in a grave thus almost unmarked in the very city he fathered. The
                    man whose vision not only forsaw the central plains green with growing corn and golden with the
                    harvest, but also made possible that transformation of the wilderness, has not yet been accorded
                    adequate credit and honor by the nation which enjoys the fruition of his dreams.
         
         
         
            Out at Aunt Louisa's∗
            
            By CORINNE SCHENCK DAHMEN
            
            A mile and a half beyond Center Square in 
                        Vevay
                     lived my mother's Uncle, George McCulloch. He was one of life's
                    misfits. Born on a farm near Kingussie in the Highlands of 
                        Scotland
                    , nature cut him out for a Scotch Dominie, but fate made him a pioneer in the new world.
                    For years he labored, struggled and failed in trade until his eldest son Joe grew up and went to
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , to become associated with his uncle, my mother's
                    father, Daniel McCulloch. Here showing the ability that his father so signally lacked, Joe soon made
                    a brilliant success in business, and, being of a generous nature, he shared his prosperity with his
                    family. He purchased a large farm and placed his father's family upon it, equipping the
                    home with comforts and luxuries almost unknown in the farm houses of the day. Best of all he kept up
                    a constant flow of books, periodicals and newspapers to the country place which he had established.
            The large family of sons and daughters grew up and went out into the world. However when warm summer
                    days arrived, one by one they would come trooping back home with their families, and there were many
                    happy reunions in the big farm house. They were the only kin of my mother that lived near her, and
                    she was greatly attached to them. They were in and out of our house a great deal both as children
                    and when grown up. When returning for their annual visit, there was no way of reaching or leaving 
                        Vevay
                    , except by the railroad, seldom used, as it was across the River and ten miles back in 
                        Kentucky
                    , or by the mail boat. The latter reached 
                        Vevay
                     at midnight or in the small hours of the morning. Arriving at such a time, the drive
                    into the country could not be undertaken until the following day. So what was more natural than to
                    spend the night at the home of Cousin Tenie (my mother), where these relatives were always welcome.
            On the other hand, a day spent out at Aunt Louisa's was one of our summer pleasures, and was
                    always on the itinerary for our guests. On the day planned for such an outing, our 
                  
                     ∗ In a letter accompaning her short sketch, the author
                            says: "The journal intrigued me because it shows such a simple
                            life—children listening to Spurgeon's sermons in contrast to the blood
                            and thunder movies gut on every Saturday afternoon exclusively for children. My own
                            childhood was 80 much more wholesome than what I see today."
               
                     steady white mare, Jane, would be hitched to the surrey, and,
                    after breakfast, served promptly at seven o'clock, for which on this day, even I, was in
                    prompt attendance, my mother or eldest sister would take up the reins and Jane would start out at a
                    brisk trot up and down hill for the twelve miles or more to the George McCulloch farm. Unless some
                    misfortune befell US, we would arrive shortly before noon to sit down at a table groaning under its
                    load of fried chicken, every vegetable in season, hot biscuits, jellies and preserves, sweet pickles
                    and several kinds of sour pickles, along with berries, pie and cake for dessert. After this repast,
                    we children would find our way to the big barn. If it was the haying season, we would go out to the
                    meadow, where the men would swing us up on top of the loads of hay and let us ride back to the barn.
                    While we went a haying, our elders sat about in rocking chairs and talked and sewed or crocheted.
                    Five o'clock found us on our way again in order to reach home before dark.
            In time, during the summer months, only the two old people, an unmarried daughter and a little,
                    motherless granddaughter were left in the home. Uncle George had a shock of curly red hair and the
                    irascibility of the Scotch. Aunt Louisa had a sweet face and gentle ways. Theirs was the pleasantest
                    farm house I have ever known, for Aunt Louisa's mild spirit together with the charm and
                    sunny humor of Cousin Emma, the unmarried daughter, seemed to pervade every niche and corner.
            Cousin Emma was one of the genii that every child needs to make childhood perfect. By unerring
                    instinct she always knew the heart of a child, its joys and sorrows, and could fill young minds with
                    beautiful ideals. She could heal the wounds of the spirit as well as of the body and she could hold
                    one spellbound with tales of her own weaving.
            One year in early springtime, Cousin Emma had the happy thought to borrow me for a companion to her
                    motherless little niece. At Cousin Emma's suggestion, and with her help Lulu and I kept journals. We did nothing wonderful or unusual, nevertheless this visit has stood
                    out in my memory as one of the happiest experiences of my childhood. Long ago my own diary
                    disappeared, but the one kept by Lulu McCulloch during that wonderful week when she was only seven
                    years old, I have  in my hand. The following entries constitute
                    the journal as she kept it out there on the farm: 
                  
                     
                        April 15th. 1880—It was 7:30 P.M. when Aunt Emma and Corinne came home. It
                                    was muddy, and the spring wagon got stuck in the mud so they had to walk up hill and
                                    the rest of the way home. Today was Friday and what did we do the first thing, when
                                    we got up and were dressed and had breakfast, we attended to our babies, because
                                    they were sick. Frank was mine, and Daisy was Corinne's. The babies were
                                    nervous then. She changed from the morning, and Daisy had brain fever. Maybe she had
                                    it this morning when we thought she was nervous. We sewed carpet rags, next we took
                                    our babies to ride and ate bread and butter and apples. This evening we had a
                                    literary society. I like the reading best and so did Corinne and Grandma.
                        Saturday, April 16th. It was a real pretty day. Corinne took Daisy for a ride to the
                                    barn and every where. I went too, but I didn't take Frank. We sewed carpet
                                    rags and played croquet. And it is fun to get money for sewing rags, but it is not a
                                    bit of fun to sew them. We colored eggs and it is Easter tomorrow. Purple and yellow
                                    ones, 13 eggs. It will be very funny if Aunt Emm makes pictures on her yellow one.
                        Monday April 18th.—We went to Sunday School on Sunday. The walk was very
                                    nice only we got dreadfully tired when we came back. We helped Grandma get dinner,
                                    then Aunt Emma read lots of Bible stories about the Passover and Easter. Then
                                    Corinne and I ran around afterwards. Then we had Children's hour. We sung
                                    songs and Aunt Emma told us Spurgeon's sermon about thoughts, and we all
                                    tried to think about happy things, happy times, and I said "Everybody is
                                    good to me, and I have happy times nearly all the time, not quite, but pretty
                                    near." This afternoon Jessie came and we had a tolerably good time. Then we
                                    heard the rest of "Kinfolks" and wrote in our journals.
                        Thursday. We had a little girl's party. Fannie Clevenger came first in the
                                    morning and we played croquet and dolls in our playhous. After dinner Effie Wallick
                                    and Emma Paugh and Hattie Kirkpatric came at 3 o'clock. We played and
                                    looked at picture books. We had our supper at 5 o'clock and had float and
                                    cake and rice. Corinne and I were at the end of the table and Aunt Emma waited on
                                    us.
                        After supper some gipsy wagons came. They never begged a bit, but she had such pretty
                                    lace to sell. She said she made it herself but I don't believe it. They
                                    camped right up above our house, and they stayed there and it rained too.
                        The little girls went home at 6 P.M. Fannie and Hattie stayed, and Hattie told us a
                                    story at childrens hour.
                        Friday, April 22nd.—This morning the gipsys were still there and they
                                    quarrelled, so we could hear them down here. We were so glad when they started off
                                    we don't like gipsy neighbors, but these did not trouble us much. Fannie
                                    and Hattie went home this A.M.
                     
                  
               
            
            I can still see that little group mentioned in Lulu's journal as we
                    gathered in the early dusk for Children's Hour or a 
                    Literary Society. The grate fire has been poked into a sturdy blaze, after its somnolence of the
                    day, to dispell the chill of the early spring evening. Aunt Louisa sits in her low, comfortable
                    rocker while Cousin Emma, occupying a chair by the octagonal mahogany table with its pedestal base,
                    reads aloud by the shaded light of a kerosene lamp from Spurgeon's sermons and some good
                    moral tales found in the church papers. Two little girls with long pigtails, one blond the other a
                    lovely shade of red, with the fire flickering over their freckled faces turn soulful blue eyes upon
                    the reader, drinking in every word.
            Best of all we loved to sit at Emma's feet on low hassocks with only fire to light the dusky
                    corners while she told stories which she made up while in the telling. These were not fairy tales or
                    stories of adventure but accounts of every day experiences and emotions, things that we could feel
                    and understand. In one of these stories a picture was painted that has come all through the years
                    with me. It was of apple blossoms in a bowl of transparent milk-glass against a soft grey wall-paper
                    unknown at the time. Of the story itself I no longer have any recollection but the description was
                    so vivid that when I close my eyes wherever I may be on land or sea, I can see that bowl and smell
                    the delicate fragrance of apple blossoms. That happy childhood experience gave to apple blossoms a
                    different meaning from that associated with other flowers.
            The old farm house long ago passed into other hands. Strangers sit by the blazing fire watching the
                    shadows on the wall. They till the broad fields and other children go a haying. Uncle George and
                    Aunt Louisa have long since passed on. Of the elders in that group of 1880, only Cousin Emma is
                    still among us, a light and inspiration as ever.
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum
            THE PREPARATION AND TRAINING OF SOCIAL STUDIES TEACHERS FOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS∗
            
            By I. OWEN FOSTER
            
            The whole process of the training of secondary school teachers of the social studies needs to be
                    revamped. The value of the various courses in education and in subject-matter needs to be studied.
                    Who knows whether educational psychology is more beneficial than general methods of teaching? Who
                    knows whether a course in the history of the South is more beneficial than a course in the history
                    of the old Northwest? What attempt do we make to diagnose the needs of a student before we sign him
                    up in a course? The time has arrived when the college subject-matter teachers and the teachers of
                    education should work in harmony. For the purpose of provoking discussion the following suggestions
                    are made:
            First, the freshman and sophomore years of college should be more or less exploratory. The student
                    should be placed under the advisership of an instructor who will seek to know her. As soon as she
                    expresses a dominant interest in teaching, a member of the department of education should become her
                    adviser. He should lead her to an independent decision concerning her teaching fields, having her
                    study the possibility for placement with various combinations, the requirements of the course of
                    study of the state in which she is interested, the trends in these teaching fields, etc. Still under
                    his advisorship, the student should be sent to the various departments for further diagnoses and for
                    a temporary plan of subject training.
            Second, the subject-matter department should give a comprehensive test over its entire field. The
                    test should be divided into units comparable to the specific advanced courses advised by the
                    department for teachers. Concerning these courses the department should keep an open attitude and
                    should seek to learn their value. Such tests should be validated by educational statistical
                    procedures. Profile charts 
                  
                     ∗ The matter here presented includes only the final portion
                            of a paper with the same title which was read on Dec. 9. 1933, before a meeting of the
                            History and Social Studies Section of the Indiana State Teachers' Association. The
                            meeting was held in connection with the annual Indiana History Conference which occurred at
                            the Claypool Hotel in 
                                Indianapolis
                             on Dec. 8-9.
               
                     showing the results of these tests should be filed, given to the
                    student, and sent to her adviser together with a carefully prepared plan for the student's
                    future work in the department. If the student should be able to show good reasons why a second
                    diagnostic test should be given, it could be administered at any time subsequently.
            Third, the adviser should give the student a comprehensive test over the general fields of learning
                    to determine where and what courses should be taken to give her a broad background of general
                    culture. Such a series of tests should be constructed and standardized. They likewise should be
                    validated. Such tests should measure oral and written English, scope of vocabulary, and attainment
                    in the realms of science, language, music, literature, who's who, what's what,
                    etc. As a result of this analysis a program should be prepared for the student to remedy her
                    shortcomings here.
            Fourth, since personality traits correlate more highly with teaching success than either a knowledge
                    of professional subjects or of subject-matter, a careful personality analysis should be made either
                    under the guidance of the adviser or of the psychology department. If objectionable personality
                    traits are found, the student should be shown why these must be overcome before she can teach.
                    Likewise, a plan of attack must be established here so that the student can improve, unless the case
                    is entirely hopeless.
            Fifth, a comprehensive test over the field of education should be given and a program should be made
                    for the student, she being a partner in every phase of this activity.
            Sixth, the student should now begin her work of teacher-training. She should understand that she must
                    satisfy both the subject-matter department and the education department of her ability to teach
                    before being permitted to have charge of a high school class in supervised teaching. To attain this
                    distinction might take approximately only three years for a few, four for some, and five or longer
                    for most students. It would not be a matter of time or of semester hours and credit points, but of
                    attainment.
            Seventh, the supervised teaching semester should be spent largely in the high school. Observation and
                    teaching should be done in more that one class—preferably in classes of differing
                    abilities and of different subjects for which the teacher  has
                    prepared to teach. She should be brought into the sponsorship of one or more clubs and into contact
                    with all of the duties of a teacher. On this level of training she must be rated favorably by three
                    agencies: the subject-matter departments in which she has prepared to teach; the education
                    department; and the supervisory and administrative staff of the high school.
            Eighth, having succeeded in her work in supervised teaching, the prospective teacher would now be
                    ready for an in-terneship of at least one year. In this she should prove herself a success before
                    the school that prepared her, after which, with the approval of her work by state and local
                    supervisors, she should be recommended for a three-year term license renewable at intervals upon
                    satisfactory evidence of success and growth.
            Various states are considering placing a limit upon the number of teaching certificates issued
                    annually in accordance with the needs of the respective commonwealth. Such a scheme has been
                    suggested for Indiana. It contemplates a careful study of the teacher-training institutions and the
                    allocation to each of a definite number of teachers with certain teaching combinations. If such a
                    plan should be approved, the institutions would be forced to adopt measures for a more rigorous
                    elimination. Is not the time ripe to do something about! the situation? How far do you agree with
                    the suggestions of this paper? With which of these do you disagree? Why? What would you do about it?
            In conclusion, permib me to say that it is your and my opportunity to push the edhcational frontier
                    beyond its present narrow limits. Today our problem is common just as it was in the eighteenth
                    century. We believe in the value of the social studies and we want good teachers. Our problem is not
                    one of fewer hours in education as a leading mathematician of this state would have us believe;
                    neither is it a problem of fewer hours in history as another friend of mine recently suggested. Ours
                    is a struggle in the interest of humanity and to this end I invite your frank discussion, your
                    correspondence, and your sincere efforts in working out a coöperative plan.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            By CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            The following letter from a new member in the Society at Montpelier, Indiana, is of interest, not
                    only to those who are promoting the work of the Society, but also as an example of the appreciation
                    which the writer has, and which many others in the state might have of their connection with the
                    stream of history 
                  
                     
                        I have always enjoyed the Magazine and am interested in the history of my own state.
                        I own a farm one mile east and one mile north of Pennville which is not without its
                                    history.
                        This tract of land was entered by a Mr. Ninde, a friend, who helped the negro on his
                                    way north. The old log house is still standing and I hope some time to restore it.
                        We have a tract of land known as the Godfroy Preserve. This tract is east of
                                    Montpelier.
                        This tract was used as the hunting grounds for the Miami tribes who came here from 
                                        Peru
                                    . The little stream which flows on the north edge of our little city is
                                    named Salamonie but we have been unable to find what the word means in the Indian
                                    language. [Jacob P. Dunn gave it as a corruption of the Miami word for
                                    "yellow paint" (blood root)].
                        You see we are not without our lot of Indiana history.
                        
                                    Mrs. Luther E. Kelley.
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            The William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society, on February 1, began
                    occupation of the room which has been assigned it in the new State Library and Historical Building.
                    The room is on the main floor at the southeast corner and has been built with special reference to
                    this library. Under the terms of agreement between the Society and the state, the library of the
                    Society is to be here permanently, though the agreement may be terminated upon one year's
                    notice by either party.
            William Henry Smith was the editor of the papers of Arthur St. Clair, the first governor of the
                    Northwest Territory. His library and a fund for its maintenance was bequeathed to the Indiana
                    Historical Society by his son, the late Delavan Smith. Much of the original library is of a general
                    character, of literary, rather than historical value. Delavan Smith's will provides that
                    these books may be placed in the State Library or otherwise disposed of and the proceeds used  for the purchase of other material. The policy of the Memorial
                    Library is to supplement the State Library by the purchase of rare and valuable material, preference
                    being given to material relating to the Old Northwest, and more particularly to Indiana.
            The Memorial Library is in charge of a committee consisting of Lee Burns, chairman, Benjamin D. Hitz,
                    and Perry W. Lesh. Miss Florence Venn has been appointed librarian. The Library will probably be
                    ready for use early in March. Its material will not circulate but will be available to all who are
                    qualified to use its books and manuscripts in their researches.
            Volume XI, Number 2, of the Indiana Historical Society Publications will be
                    "A History of 
                        Spiceland
                     Academy" by Mrs. Sadie Bacon Hatcher of the Forest Park School, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , with a brief introduction by Albert Mock, associate professor of secondary education
                    in 
                        Butler
                     University. Private academies and academies sponsored by religious bodies, for nearly
                    half a century, filled an important place in the educational system of Indiana. Their number was
                    legion. Some were short-lived but many continued from the middle of the nineteenth century well into
                    the twentieth. 
                        Spiceland
                     Academy was one of the best known and one of the last survivors of these old schools.
                    It is also exceptional in that unusually full records have been preserved. On the basis of these
                    records, Mrs. Hatcher has written a careful and detailed history of the academy from its beginning
                    to the end. The publication will probably be distributed to members of the Society and will be on
                    sale for others on March 31.
         
         
         
            Wanderings in the West in 1839
            By J. GOULD
            
            Foreword
            The following narrative of a trip to the West in 1839 appeared in the New 
                            England
                         Farmer during the summer of 1840, running in the weekly issues from May 27 to
                    July 15. The author was an intelligent, well-educated man, who observed with care and presented his
                    facts in an interesting manner without bias. Professor Richard L. Power of The St. Lawrence
                    University, Canton, 
                        New York
                    , procured photostats of the eight installments of the Gould narrative from the files of
                    the New 
                            England
                         Farmer in the Library of the Antiquarian Society of 
                  Worcester, Massachusetts
               . These, he very kindly presented to the Iwdiana
                        Magazine of History. Very few; of our readers have access to files of the New 
                            England
                         Farmer, the early years of which are quite rare, and it is believed that many
                    will find the following pages enjoyable as well as profitable.—Editor.
            
            
                    I
                    THE WESTERN FEVER
                    This dreadful disease has prevailed as an epidemic for several years, throughout New 
                            England
                        , and to some extent in the Middle States, and has often proved fatal, if not to the
                        lives, at least to the happiness of those who have had the misfortune to be attacked with it.
                    Having been afflicted with this disease myself, and seen many others suffering from its attacks,
                        I have become familiar with its sym-toms in all its stages. When first attacked, the patient
                        becomes excited with wonder and admiration, dreams of unlimited wealth, in the possession of
                        countless acres in the far west, waving with golden wheat, and corn produced almost without
                        labor—of broad fields of luxuriant grass, supporting innumerable cattle, sheep, and
                        the most beautiful horses; all ministering to the wealth and pleasure of the happy owner; and
                        anon, a splendid mansion rises into view, and spacious stables, and barns filled with the rich
                        products of the fields and meadows, while the farmyard swarms with pigs and poultry, the
                        neighboring commons abound with game; as he walks out into the lawns he is delighted to see the
                        wild deer lightly bounding away before him, and the crystal streams seemingly alive with a great
                        variety of the most delicious fish, and he enjoys all these without toil or trouble. The
                        possessor of this elysium has apparently less care and perplexity than the eastern farmer who
                        tills the ungrateful soil of New 
                            England
                        ; his brow is unwrinkled, his placid countenance beams with contentment and
                        unmingled happiness.
                    
                    At length the excitement begins to subside, and he says to himself, "I will not be led
                        away by idle tales; I will obtain correct information and deliberate calmly upon the subject,
                        and will be governed by the dictates of sober judgment"—and straightway he
                        reads an extravagant account of the happy land, written perhaps by some speculator in western
                        lands, and is persuaded that his dream is in fact the picture of the real situation which awaits
                        him there. He then compares the very great advantages of the west with those of his present
                        situation, too often overlooking altogether his social privileges, and the pleasures which every
                        person derives from the scenes of his early associations; and, throwing into the balance the
                        numerous petty evils to which he is continually exposed, he comes to the conclusion that the
                        west is altogether preferable to the east.
                    During this stage, the patient may be seen standing in moody silence in his fields, or perhaps
                        leaning upon his tools, or against the fence, unconsciously whittling away the sharp corners of
                        the rails and posts. His fields appear to him to be poor and sterile, the crops scarcely
                        compensating him for his labor; the grass does not grow so tall or look so green as it formerly
                        did; and even the sun, which shone so brightly upon the beautiful scene around him, now seems to
                        his jaundiced eyes to shine with pale and powerless rays.
                    Every day his conviction of the superiority of the west grows stronger; he becomes gloomy, and
                        sometimes is overwhelmed with a hypochondriacal affection, popularly called the
                            howors.
               
                    When the disease arrives to this stage, there is no remedy but removal. The patient is aroused
                        only by the prospect of selling his property, he heeds not at what sacrifice;—this
                        accomplished, his former excitement returns—his eyes sparkle, his whole countenance
                        beams with delight,—he packs up a few things which he deems necessary for himself and
                        family, and hurries away to that land where his most sanguine wishes are to be realized.
                    There may be some variation in the outward symtoms of the disease in different individuals, owing
                        to the difference of cohstitutions, or to the greater or less violence of the attack; but I
                        think that the above description will be found correct in the main, and the least experienced
                        will be able to detect the disease by the presence of some or all of these symtoms.
                    On the 16th of May, 1839, I commenced my wanderings. I took a seat in the cars for 
                            Providence
                        , where I took passage in the steamer 
                            Lexington
                         for 
                            New York
                        . On board the boat I found a gentleman from 
                            Ohio
                        , who had been travelling for his health, and was returning home. I travelled in his
                        company as far as Pittsburg, and found him an intelligent and entertaining man, and I am
                        indebted to him for much information which was of use to me during my tour. Travellers should be
                        cautious of putting confidence in persons professing to be agents for the different lines of
                        boats, stages, &c. While on board the boat I was exceedingly annoyed by a fellow who
                        called himself an agent for the "fast line" to Pittsburg, and who promised to
                        send passengers through  in the fastest time with the very
                        best accommodations, for several dollars less than the regular fare. I afterwards learned that
                        several persons were deceived by such persons, and found, that instead of being forwarded by the
                        packet lines, when they came to the canal they were thrust into dirty freight boats. One
                        gentleman came on board the packet at Harris-burg who had been thus deceived by "lying
                        agents." There are only two packet lines running from 
                            Philadelphia
                         to Pittsburg—the Express and the Pioneer—one carrying for
                        $15, the other for $12. These lines are both owned by the same company;
                        the accommodations of both are good, the difference being in the speed. The Express goes through
                        in three and a half days, and the Pioneer in four.
                    Leaving 
                            New York
                        , we passed down the harbor and coasted the Jersey shore to Amboy, thence via
                        railroad to Bordentown, passing the magnificent estate of Joseph Bonaparte, thence down the 
                            Delaware
                         to 
                            Philadelphia
                        . At the latter place we took passage on the railroad to 
                            Harrisburg
                        . After crossing the Schuylkill, we ascended an inclined plane of considerable
                        length, upon the summit of which the locomotive was attached to the train and we proceeded
                        onward, though at a slow rate. The country through which the railroad passes is very rich and
                        beautiful, and as an agriculture district is not surpassed perhaps by any district in the 
                            United States
                        . At 
                            Middletown
                         we came in sight of the Susquehannah river, and passed by the side of the 
                            Pennsylvania
                         canal from there to 
                            Harrisburg
                        . This place is 107 miles from 
                            Philadelphia
                        , and the time occupied in the passage was 13 hours, and it appeared to me to be an
                        unreasonable length of time to be going that distance upon a railroad, but I was told that the
                        speed of the locomotives is limited by law to ten miles an hour, and I can testify that in this
                        trip there was no violation of the law.
                    I was surprised to find the capitol of 
                            Pennsylvania
                         a small and rather an ill-built village. I was told, however, that there is a good
                        deal of business done, and in a few years it will probably become a large and handsome city.
                    At 
                            Harrisburg
                         we went on board the canal packet. The morning was beautiful; the scene and this
                        mode of traveling were new to me, and I was in high spirits; but a very low bridge taught me a
                        lesson of humility at the very commencement of my voyage, which I did not soon forget, The canal
                        for 15 miles is along the valley of the Susquehannah, and separated from the river in many
                        places by the tow path. The mountains close in quite to the river, are covered with wood and
                        crowned with round sugarloaf peaks. The rock is sandstone, dipping to the S.E., with a very
                        large angle, the strata considerably contorted. Some of the cliffs are ragged and overhang the
                        road on the margin of the canal in a very threatening manner, adding wildness to a scene at once
                        romantic and beautiful. Between the hills are little valleys or glens, in which are situated
                        snug and well cultivated farms, upon which I noticed large crops of excellent rye, which I am
                        told is used chiefly to feed horses, the farmers preferring it to any other grain for that
                        purpose; and if the condition of their horses is a proper criterion, they have reason for I
                        never saw animals m finer condition than the 
                            Pennsylvania
                         horses are  generally. The Susquehannah is not
                        navigable for steamboats, but when the river is high, great numbers of rafts, arks, and flats,
                        are floated down from the upper country; we saw several of these river crafts passing over
                        rapids which to me appeared quite dangerous. To a person unacquainted with canal navigation, it
                        is surprising what little trouble the canal boats, pass each other. The rule is to pass on the
                        right hand, and of course the horses pass each other on the left hand, the outside team slacking
                        a little to let the inside boat pass over the tow line; in this way the boats pass without any
                        loss of speed. The rate of the packets is about 4 miles an hour.
                    Near the junction of the Juniata, the rock becomes slaty and of less dip, say about 50"
                        or 60"; the wood is small and stinted., and we began to see hemlock and pine. At
                        Dunkinsville, just above the junction of the canal forks, one branch continuing up the
                        Susquehannah to Wilksbarre and the coal mines, and the other branch passing up the Juniata
                        valley, and distinguished by the mane of the Juniata Canal, we crossed the Susquehannah by means
                        of a bridge which is built upon eleven stone piers, having two tow paths, the one above the
                        other, so that boats may pass each other here with the same facility as elsewhere. A little
                        above this place we crossed the Juniata by an aqueduct. Twenty-five miles from 
                            Harrisburg
                         we came to the little town called 
                            Newport
                        .
                    Beyond 
                            Newport
                         the strata of rocks appeared to dip to the N.W. with a very large angle,
                        Millerstown, 40 miles from 
                            Harrisburg
                        , on the north side of the; river, is a very pleasant town, and there are some
                        excellent and well cultivated farms. A few miles below this place we were ferried across the
                        river in a novel manner. An endless rope is stretched across and passed over a wheel at each
                        side; the horses are driven upon a flat boat, a line from which is attached to the endless rope;
                        the wheels are then put in motion by a mill, which is supplied with water from a lock above.
                        After leaving Millerstown we made a great turn to the S.W. the hills on the northerly side
                        recede from the river, making a valley of considerable width of cultivable land, but the soil
                        appears to be lighter than it is below and is rather stony. I shall long remember the first
                        night that I passed upon the canal. The evening was delightful, and we sat upon the deck
                        watching the changing scenery until 9 o'clock. The moon shone brightly and lit up the
                        landscape with a mellow light; the merry song of the driver, the horn of our boatman as we
                        approached the locks, and the answering notes of bugles from descending boats, added to the wild
                        beauties of the scene, brought to my mind Scott's descriptions of highland scenes with
                        something of reality. After going below, the captain called over the names of the passengers,
                        and according to custom, those whose names are first upon the waybill, have the choice of
                        berths, and when the passengers, are numerous, it is no small advantage to have engaged your
                        passage early.
                    When I awoke in the morning of the second day, we were in a broad valley extending far to the
                        left; on the right was a perpendicular mass of red sandstone of a slaty structure, the strata
                        nearly horizontal, and I observed several upheaves which presented the appearance of regular
                        arches. The soil here is more gravelly and there is more wet meadow  than I observed in the valleys that we saw yesterday.
                            Waynesburg,1 75 miles from 
                            Harrisburg
                        , is situated in a broad rolling valley. The farms in this vicinity appear to be
                        well stocked with fine cattle and horses. In this region I observed considerable quantities of
                        iron ore. At 11 o'clock we passed Hamiltonville, a thriving little village. At this
                        place we turned south and made a sweep around the base of a high mountain, a distance of five
                        miles to gain three quarters of a mile, describing almost a circle. The rock here I took to be
                        limestone, on account of the shells that I observed in it, but I had no opportunity to examine
                        it particularly. We crossed the river [Juinata] several times to-day in aqueducts. In the
                        afternoon of this day we arrived at 
                            Huntington
                         and stopped a short time. This town contains a score or more of houses, and makes a
                        poor appearance, though it is said to be a place of considerable business, and is in the centre
                        of a good farming county.
                    After leaving Huntingdon the country assumes a rough appearance, the strata of rock are nearly
                        perpendicular: the faces of the mountains look as if they had been furrowed deep by the action
                        of water, leaving sharp ragged peaks of naked grey rock, some of them of great height. A few
                        miles from Huntingdon we entered a piece of slack water, three miles in length. These slack
                        water levels are formed by building a dam across the river, and the boats are let into it by
                        means of a lock. Advantage is always taken of every convenient place to convert the river into a
                        slack water level, because the greater depth and width of water is more favorable to the
                        progress of the boats than the ordinary canal. Passed 
                            Petersburg
                         and 
                            Alexandria
                        , both inferior towns.
                    The next morning we were in a broad valley of rather wet, marshy soil—passed
                        Frankstown, a considerable village, and at 7 o'clock came to Holidaysburg, a smart town
                        of about 100 houses, many of them brick. This is the termination of the Juniata canal. Between
                        this place and Huntingdon there are 42 locks, and in the whole distance from 
                            Harrisburg
                         about 90, each lifting from 6 to 14 feet, and the total lockage I judged to be
                        about 1,000 ft. As we took the cars at the canal basin immediately, we had no time to look about
                        town.
                    II
                    The Alleghany portage railroad crosses the highest ridge of the mountains, and is 36 miles in
                        length. There are five inclined planes ascending and the same number descending, and at each
                        there is a stationary engine. The cars are drawn over the short levels intervening by horses and
                        over the summit by a locomotive. Near the termination of the railroad on the west side of the
                        mountain, we passed through a tunnel perforated through the solid rock, 1,400 feet in length.
                    The mountain is of red sandstone, and generally the strata are nearly horizontal. It contains an
                        inexhaustible amount of bituminous coal, which is exposed to view in many places by excavations
                        for the railroad. The scenery passes my power of description. It is at once, 
                     
                        1 The town on the route taken by Mr. Gould was not Waynesburg nor Waynesboro. It may have been
                            McVeytown.
                  
                         and in a high degree, wild, picturesque, and grand. The mind
                        of the beholder is excited rather than pleased.
                    At two o'clock we arrived at the canal basin in Johnstown. This town is situated in a
                        deep glen surrounded by high mountains, and has the appearance of a busy little place. We went
                        immediately aboard the canal packet and soon left town. The canal passes down the valley of the
                        Conemaugh, and is fed by that river. The scenery is romantic and beautiful. The soil of 
                            Pennsylvania
                         where it admits of cultivation, is generally very rich and of a peculiar reddish
                        color, which is probably owing chiefly to the decomposed sandstone of the mountains.
                    The morning of the fourth day I. saw saltworks on the bank of the river. The water is obtained by
                        boring to the depth of 150 or 200 feet. It is pumped up by steam power and is evaporated by
                        boiling. The fuel used is bituminous coal, which is dug out of the mountains in the immediate
                        vicinity, a coal mine or digging being connected with every salt-house.
                    The salt which is manufactured here is not of the best quality. It is damp and is tinged with the
                        color of the soil. We passed Saltsburg, a ragged little hamlet, which derives its name from its
                        manufacture: this is 63 miles from Pittsburg. Seven miles below we passed extensive saltworks
                        and coal mines: the soil in this vicinity is thin and sterile: the river is here called the
                        Kiskiminitis. Five miles below we passed 
                            Warren
                        -town, another ragged little villiage. Vegetation on the west side of the mountains,
                        for a very considerable distance, appeared to be a week later than on the east side. Among the
                        plants that were new to me, was the tulip tree, a species of poplar, bearing flowers of a light
                        straw color, and nearly of the size and shape of tulips—hence its name. The first
                        tree of its kind I ever saw was in 
                            Washington
                         square in 
                            Philadelphia
                        . In the mountain valleys they grow extremely large; the leaf resembles the sycamore
                        leaf. At half past ten we came to Leechburg, 36 miles from Pittsburg, and at noon to 
                            Freeport
                        , in Armstrong county, where are several mills, three churches, and there is the
                        appearance of considerable business. This is a short distance below the junction of the
                        Alleghany river [and Conemaugh]. The scenery now becomes quite changed; instead of high
                        mountains on either side, we see rich, well cultivated farms. Five miles from Pittsburg we
                        passed through Tarentum, a very neat little town, and at 7 o'clock we arrived in the
                        city.
                    Pittsburg is seen to good advantage from the canal. The immediate vicinity is very beautiful. The
                        city itself is very compactly built and is a place of very extensive business for its size: the
                        manufacture of iron in particular is carried to a great extent, and its situation at the head of
                        steamboat navigation, gives it very important commercial advantages.—The people are
                        shrewd, enterprising and active; and in consequences of these qualities, there are many who have
                        become quite rich and are beginning to exhibit the pride of wealth in elegant mansions,
                        carriages, &c.
                    Alleghanytown is a pleasant place and is growing rapidly. Many of the wealthy Pittsburgers have
                        their residences in Alleghanytown, to avoid the noise and bustle of the city, as well as the
                        smoke, which in  certain states of the atmosphere is very
                        annoying, and at all times is rather disagreeable. There, also, Mr. Stone, a native of 
                            Massachusetts
                        , has by his own unaided exertions, established a classical school for boys, and I
                        was glad to find that he was patronised according to his merits. Whatever a highly cultivated
                        mind, indefatigable industry and exemplary virtue will enable one to do towards training
                        thorough scholars and forming correct habits, will be done by Mr. Stone, and his school will
                        prove a lasting benefit to that section of the country.
                    During my stay at Pittsburg nothing appeared to me so peculiar and foreign as the common accent
                        and phraseology of the people. Some. thing like an Irish accent is common, and the pronunciation
                        of ing like 'n—thus, liv'n, cab'n, &c.; the objective for the nominative in
                        phrases like this—them's the best; like for as, and the frequent us of just, are some of the peculiarities of
                        speech that distinguish a western from an eastern man.
                    There is no dependence to be placed upon the word of the captains of the steamboats at Pittsburg
                        with regard to the time of sailing. They will advertise for tomorrow or today, when they do not
                        intend to go for a week, and will assure you positively that theirs will be the first boat to
                        go, and will even get up steam in order to make an appearance of starting, when they intend no
                        such thing. The best way is to inquire of some resident who is acquainted with the boats, who
                        can judge from the time that the boats have been in and other circumstances known to him, which
                        boat will go first and can recommend you to the boat. One afternoon I put my baggage on board
                        the Wm. Penn, which was advertised for the next morning at 10 o'clock, and the next
                        morning I went down to the landing accompanied by a friend, and found that the boat was not
                        ready, and notwithstanding the captain's promises, I was persuaded that he would not go
                        until the next week, this being Saturday. Accordingly I took my baggage, though not without
                        opposition, and put it on board the 
                            Maine
                        , which was getting up her steam, and at 2 o'clock we left'
                        Pittsburg.
                    The steamers upon the rivers are very neat, and commodius, but more frail in their construction
                        than those upon the seaboard. The scenery below Pittsburg is very beautiful. At 3
                        o'clock we passed Economy, a little town which was settled by Rappe and his associates.
                        A little below is Freedom, a pleasant little town: then we came to Beaver-town, and 49 miles
                        from Pittsburg brought us to Wellsville, where we stopped for passengers. About dark we came to
                        Steubensville, a small thriving town, where we stopped an hour.
                    When I awoke on Sunday morning, we were 20 miles from 
                            Wheeling
                        . The banks are bold and rise back into high thick-wooded hills, and where sections
                        are uncovered, red sandstone and coal are exposed. At about 10 o'clock we passed 
                            Marietta
                         at the mouth of the Muskingum. This town is delightfully situated and well built,
                        and shows to good advantage from the river. When we were passing the church-bell was ringing for
                        morning service: the stores were closed, and the town had a quiet, orderly air, which reminded
                        me of New 
                            England
                        , and I should have been pleased could I have stopped there. 
                            Marietta
                         is 84 miles from 
                            Wheeling
                        .  Thirteen miles more brought us to Parkersburg,
                        a pretty town on the 
                            Virginia
                         side.
                    Three miles below Parkersburg we came to Blennerhasset's island, a place memorable in
                        our country's history for being the scene of Burr's conspiracy. This island is
                        three miles long and contains from 300 to 500 acres, mostly under cultivation: there are some
                        fine orchards upon it, and two farm houses, but the mansion is in ruins. As we pass down the
                        river the hills are less bold and the soil everywhere appears to be very rich.
                    About sunset we passed Point Pleasant, at the mouth of the Kan-hawa [Great Kanawha], 202 miles
                        from Pittsburg. The rays of the setting sun seemed to gild the little village, and having a fine
                        situation, it appeared very beautiful indeed. Two miles below stands Galipolis, also a pleasant
                        village.
                    Monday morning we came to 
                            Portsmouth
                        , near the mouth of the Scioto, 115 miles above 
                            Cincinnati
                        . This town is built upon a high bluff and makes a handsome show of good buildings.
                        The facade of the principal street next to the river is very fine, The bluff has been sloped
                        from the street to the water's edge to make a convenient landing, and it also adds to
                        the beauty of the place. We left. 
                            Portsmouth
                         in the midst of a fierce thunder storm, which drove the passengers into the cabin.
                    The 
                            Ohio
                         river is studded with numerous beautiful islands, which are generally cultivated in
                        the middle and have a border of timber on the declivity next to the water; the upper ends
                        terminate in a long flat sand bars, and the lower ends are abrupt.
                    This forenoon we came up with the steamer Dolphin. These boats had passed and repassed several
                        times coming down the river, and now it was evident that both captains intended a race. Both got
                        up a heavy steam, and both boats were apparently put to their utmost speed. The Dolphin was just
                        ahead, and the boats dashed through the water like two generous steeds, snorting and galloping
                        furiously as they bear their gallant riders proudly over the battle field. For almost an hour
                        the excitement was great,—every person appeared to be interested. At length the 
                            Maine
                         got up abreast and was gaining upon her rival, when having reached Maysville, we
                        hauled in to leave passengers and freight, and the Dolphin went on her way and was soon out of
                        sight.
                    Maysville, I believe, is the oldest town in 
                            Kentucky
                        :2 it is regularly laid out into squares; the buildings are
                        chiefly of brick, and the town presents a compact city-like appearance; but the streets are
                        abomniably filthy. It is said to contain 4,000 inhabitants. Exactly opposite Maysville is 
                            Aberdeen
                        , apparently a pretty village. The country around is hilly, and the soil does not
                        look as good as the average in this section of the country. Maysville is 60 miles above 
                            Cincinnati
                        . Ten miles below we passed 
                            Dover
                        , a pretty village in 
                            Ohio
                        ; and six miles further Higgins-port. Augusta, a very pretty town in 
                            Kentucky
                        , contains a considerable population, and has a handsome courthouse and college,
                        which were 
                     
                        2 The traveler was misinformed in regard to Maysville. Harrodsburg
                                is the oldest town of 
                                    Kentucky
                                .
                  
                         pointed out to me by a traveling friend who had spent some
                        time there. Ten miles further brought us to Moscow, 
                            Ohio
                        , where we stopped to wood: this is a small but pleasant village. The soil below
                        Moscow and between that place and 
                            Cincinnati
                         appears to be of the best quality, and the forests are really magnificient. The
                        first view of 
                            Cincinnati
                         as seen from the river above is not very prepossessing, but when abreast of the
                        city it appears very well. We arrived at 6 o'clock, just 52 hours from Pittsburg,
                        distance by the river about 500 miles.
                    
                  
                            Cincinnati
                        , like most of the large towns in the west, is laid out in squares, the streets
                        crossing each other at right angles: The buildings are chiefly brick, in plain style: the public
                        buildings are few, the most remarkable of which are the Episcopal and Catholic churches, and the
                        Bazaar, built by Mrs. Trollope, and now owned by the Mechanics Institute. The latter building is
                        not large, but is remarkable for its oddity, being in oriental style. Many of the streets are
                        ornamented with shade trees, and the city appears neat and handsome. Order and quietness pervade
                        the whole, and compared with eastern cities, the business is not very great for the size of the
                        place: in this respect it is not what it is "cracked up to be." There are
                        about a dozen churches in the city, and the population is said to be 40,000. The market is well
                        supplied until 12 o'clock, when it is closed. The last of May there were plenty of
                        strawberries, cherries and green peas in the market. The general customs of the place are more
                        like 
                            New York
                         than any other place with which I am acquainted.
                    By climbing a high hill on the north of the town I obtained a fine view of 
                     Cincinnati, Covington,
                                Newport
                   and the river. The two latter
                        towns are exactly opposite 
                            Cincinnati
                        , and are separated by the Licking river, which joins the 
                            Ohio
                         here. These places are surrounded by high hills, which hide them entirely from any
                        distant view. Those hills at present are very little cultivated, being chiefly occupied as
                        pasture: but when rich citizens shall improve the many fine situations about the town, the
                        environs of 
                            Cincinnati
                         will be very beautiful.
                    I left 
                            Cincinnati
                         by the Miami Canal at 5 o'clock in the afternoon of a blustering day, so
                        cold that I was obliged to wrap myself in my cloak and was soon out of sight of the city. The
                        canal is circuitous, winding around hills and valleys, through a district of excellent land,
                        producing on the average of 50 bushels of corn to the acre, and other crops in proportion. Farms
                        are valued at 60 to 100 dollars per acre.
                    Early the next morning I arrived at 
                            Hamilton
                        , the shire town of 
                            Butler county
                        , situated on the Miami river, distant from 
                            Cincinnati
                         by the stage road 26 miles. This is a smart town of considerable business. The
                        public square is enclosed with a handsome iron fence and contains a handsome court-house, jail
                        and county seat.
                    In the afternoon I took a walk into the country. In the vicinity there are several extensive
                        flour mills. The farmers live easy; their soil is very rich, easily tilled, producing abundant
                        crops, of which corn is the principal. They keep great numbers of hogs, but few cattle, pork
                        being the article upon which they depend most for an income. In the opinion of experienced
                        farmers the land has been injured by cropping  too much with
                        corn and keeping too few cattle. The hogs run at large, and consequently return but little to
                        the cultivated land, which will ultimately become exhausted, rich as it is, unless a change is
                        adopted in the management of the farms.
                    I left 
                            Richmond
                         [
                            Hamilton
                        ] in the stage at 8 in the morning of the next day after my arrival; crossing the
                        bridge into Rossville, we came upon the turnpike road, and passing through Somerville and Camden
                        at 11 o'clock we came to Eaton, the seat of Preble county, 26 miles from 
                            Hamilton
                        . This is a small town, but being upon the great western thoroughfare of land
                        travel, it enjoys considerable business. On the arrival of the eastern stage in the afternoon I
                        left Eaton for 
                            Richmond
                        , distant 16 miles, but owing to the bad state of the road, we did not arrive there
                        until 7 in the evening. 
                            Richmond
                         is situated on the left bank of the Whitewater river, in 
                            Wayne county
                        , Indiana, 4 miles from the 
                            Ohio
                         line, in the midst of a fine agricultural district, and the most thriving in the
                        State. A large part of the population are Quakers, who have a very large meeting-house in a fine
                        grove to the northeast of the town, and their influence gives a healthy tone to society. The
                        town is substantially built, and is said to contain 3,500 inhabitants. The national road makes
                        the principal street from east to west, which is crossed at right angles by wide streets,
                        ornamented with trees. The banks of the river are about 40 feet high, and the excavation for the
                        national road exposes a very extensive deposite of shells and other organic remains in rare
                        perfection, cemented by lime, forming a bluish conglomerate, easily broken into fragments. In
                        the neighborhood of the town there are large tracts yet of the primitive forest, containing
                        sugar maple, beech, ash, oak, black walnut, hickory, bass, tulip tree, and some minor plants,
                        among which is the pawpaw.—The trees are of the largest growth, and without limbs for
                        30 or 40 feet from the ground, and far enough apart to admit of riding: there is no underbrush,
                        and were it not for the fallen trees a carriage might pass in any direction. The soil is deep
                        and rich, but rather too moist generally: the subsoil is stiff clay: the water is bad. I
                        remained several days, and on the whole was more pleased with 
                            Richmond
                         than any place I had yet seen. Returning from church on Sunday, I met a friend in
                        the street who had just arrived in town, and with whom I afterwards traveled to 
                            Illinois
                        .
                    III
                    Having purchased a horse and wagon I left 
                            Richmond
                         in company with my friend, and following the 
                            Cumberland
                         road, we crossed the river on a handsome stone bridge, and passed through
                                
                     Centerville, German
                  -town, 
                            Cambridge City
                         (which is the county seat) and 
                            Dublin
                        , all of them small towns, but containing many good buildings and growing rapidly.
                    After passing 
                            Dublin
                         the land is more flat and swampy, and there are fewer clearings, and the road for
                        the most part is extremely bad; a smart shower in the afternoon caused us to seek shelter at a
                        public house.
                    The weather being fine the next morning we started early, and passing 
                            Lewisville
                        , Ogden, and 
                            Raysville
                         we came to 
                            Greenfield
                        , the seat of 
                            Hancock county
                        , 20 miles from 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
                    
                    The road traveled over today was execrable. At all the creeks there are steep precipitous banks
                        of hard clay, which are really dangerous. I was twice thrown out of my wagon at these pitches,
                        and many places were so bad that I dared not ride at all. Many of the streams are deep and
                        muddy, and most of them are entirely without bridges. The country is very flat and low, so that
                        the water cannot pass off, but stands in pools, sometimes for miles on the sides of the road,
                        until it is evaporated. The water of the wells has a strong smell of sulphur, and glasses become
                        corroded; our horses refused to drink it unless very thirsty.
                    
                  
                            Greenfield
                         is a small town of about 30 houses, a neat court house, two taverns, and several
                        stores, We left early in the morning, and found the road similar to that we traveled over
                        yesterday, until we came within 2 or 3 miles of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , when we came to a district a little more rolling and dry. We reached the
                        metropolis early in the afternoon and stopped over night.
                    
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         covers a large area, has a population of about 4.000, and contains some good
                        buildings. The capital is a good looking edifice, in the Grecian style, built of brick and
                        stuccoed in imitation of marble. There are two other buildings going up in the same
                        style—one for the Parent State Bank, the other for the Branch.
                    ' The merchants have a custom which I never noticed elsewhere, of hanging a festoon of
                        red cloth, generally flannel, over their doors to catch the eyes of a passenger at a distance
                        and these are the first objects that attract the notice of a stranger coming into town. The
                        business of the place is small and particularly dull at this time, owing to the scarcity of
                        money and the suspension of the public works. 
                            Indianapolis
                         is the local center of the splendid internal improvements of the State; and when
                        they are completed according to the original plan, it must become an important city. There is
                        but little attention paid to education, and the influx of adventurers and foreigners attracted
                        hither by the public works in the vicinity, has exerted n deleterious influence upon the morals
                        of the people, gambling and dissipation being too common, and petty theft scarcely rebuked.
                    About 10 the next morning we left town, crossing a noble bridge built at the expense of the U.
                        States, being in the route of the national road, and travelled 16% miles to
                        Little's, where we arrived just in time to escape a tremendous tempest, which lasted
                        till dark.
                    The next morning we started at 7 o'clock, found the road very muddy, the land not quite
                        as flat as east of the capital, but yet too low and level to be healthy: there are short hills
                        pretty steep, and being composed of hard clay, the rain had made them very slippery, and the
                        traveling was very tedious. We passed several little straggling villages which are dignified
                        with the name of towns, for in this part of the country a petty tavern and grocery makes a town,
                        and if there be a blacksmith's shop and two or three log cabins besides, it is
                        "a right smart town." We stopped for the night two miles west of Belmont, a
                        town of the latter class.
                    According to my usual custom, I made particular inquiries about the country, and I learned that
                        it is generally unhealthy in the latter part of  summer and
                        autumn, when billious fevers and ague prevail. There are some public schools in which are taught
                        orthography, reading, writing and arithmetic, and the people seem to have no idea that any other
                        branches are necessary except for doctors and lawyers. The farmers pay but little attention to
                        their cattle: they have good horses and abundance of hogs. Corn and oats are their principal
                        crops: they raise, however, some wheat, flax and a few potatoes: gardens are very rare: the soil
                        is well adapted for trees, and they have some good orchards. Their living is plain and
                        uniform—warm cakes, bacon and coffee, with eggs occasionally.
                    The next morning we moved along through Putnamsville and forded a considerable river
                            [Eel River] but found the roads so muddy that we concluded to stop at
                        Manhattan until the next day. Near Putnamsville there is a quarry of the best building stone to
                        be found in the western country. It is a compact limestone, and there are a good many men
                        employed there.
                    Leaving Manhattan we rode until noon, when we were overtaken by a heavy rain and took refuge in
                        the cabin of a settler from "York State," whom we found very communicative and
                        tolerably intelligent. This part of the State has been recently settled and is very little
                        improved. The land is mostly entered but is still cheap. There are at present no public schools,
                        and a few years since the people had to go to 
                            Vincennes
                         to mill, 40 miles in boats. The rain having slacked we started, but had not gone
                        far before the windows of heaven were again opened upon us, and we had to ride in the rain for
                        14 miles to Cunningham's, where we found a good stable for our horses, a rare thing in
                        this country, and excellent accommodations for ourselves, which our drenched situation made
                        doubly agreeable.
                    Resuming our journey in the morning, we found that the heavy rains yesterday had made the road
                        very bad until we got to Harrison prairie. This prairie is 3 miles wide and about 12 miles long,
                        and is nearly all fenced and under cultivation, and, being what is called sand'
                        prairie, the water was nearly all absorbed.
                    
                  
                            Terre Haute
                         is delightfully situated on the western edge of the prairie, and on the east bank
                        of the 
                            Wabash
                        , and is quite a handsome town. Its high and dry situation would lead one to suppose
                        that it is healthy; but like all other river towns in the west, it is far otherwise. However it
                        has a good share of business and is fast gaining in importance.
                    Having mentioned the 
                            Cumberland
                         or National road, as it is called, upon which so much of the public treasure has
                        been lavished during more than twenty years past, it will be proper to say a few words about its
                        present condition and the public sentiment in regard to it. This road commences in 
                            Virginia
                        , and is laid out in nearly a straight line across 
                            Ohio
                         and Indiana, in a direction a little south of west, and will perhaps be continued
                        to the Mississippi river. The road is macadamized and finished in the most
                        desirable manner as far as 
                            Columbus
                         in 
                            Ohio
                        . About four miles at 
                            Richmond
                        , Ind., a short piece at Centreville, about six miles at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , and three miles at 
                            Terre Haute
                        , together with  a few bridges are completed in
                        the same substantial manner; the remainder of the way the road has been graded, that is, the
                        road bed has been formed with earth, some of the hills have been excavated, and valleys
                        embanked, and in that situation has been open to the public travel. In wet weather holes will be
                        made in which the water settles and the continual passing soon wears into cradle holes and
                        gulleys which frequently become impassable; then a few logs are thrown in, often by the
                        travelers themselves, just sufficient to enable them to get over, though not without peril. In
                        this way the road has been cut up, and the labor that has been done nearly lost; yet this is the
                        great thoroughfare for western travel, and bad as it is, perhaps there is none better in
                        Indiana. The people say that it is a national concern and that the federal government is bound
                        to complete it, and they will not meddle with it. In the meantime it furnishes
                        a fertile subject for party politicians to quarrel about, and a stump speech would be deemed
                        incomplete without some flaming passages respecting the national road.3
               
                    We stopped only one day at 
                            Terre Haute
                         and left in the afternoon of the next, and hearing that the road was very bad on
                        the other side, we went 7 miles up the river and crossed at Durkee's ferry. The river
                        here is 240 yards wide. Our road was through timber for five miles, when learning that there
                        were no taverns nor any houses for some distance ahead, we stopped at a farm house where we were
                        well accommodated.
                    The next morning we resumed our journey over a bad road, through timber and barrens, skirting the
                        grand prairie, and at 11 o'clock we reached 
                            Paris
                        , the seat of Edgar county, 
                            Illinois
                        . This is a pretty town, built in the form of a hollow square; the court house and
                        other county buildings occupying the centre. Leaving 
                            Paris
                         we entered upon the grand prairie. To the north as far as the eye can reach, we
                        could wee nothing but an ocean of grass; to the south and west timber could be seen, but at a
                        great distance. The nearest house upon the road is ten miles from town. Some two or three miles
                        north of the road Mr. Bradshaw, an English gentleman, has an estate of 3,000 acres, most of it
                        fenced. His house is on a little eminence in the edge of a small grove, and commands a view of
                        the whole country from ten to fifteen miles round.
                    Today I made my first acquaintance with those abominable sloughs for which 
                            Illinois
                         is notorious. Just as we reached the ten mile house a hard rain set in, and we were
                        obliged to stop and make the best of wretched accommodations.
                    
                  
                     3 The building of the National Road with funds appropriated by
                            Congress was a matter of vital interest to the Northwest. Whig and Democratic members from
                            that section were equally interested, and great was the disappointment when no appropriation
                            was made in the congressional session of 1858-1889. Regarding the importance of the National
                            Road to the West, Tilghman A. Howard, Democratic congressman from a western district of
                            Indiana, speaking before the House on Feb. 12, 1840, between the time of Gould's
                            western trip and the publication of this narrative, gave utterance to the following passage:
                            "But, sir, will it: not he the part of wisdom for the old States to do us justice
                            now? Look at the map, sir. 
                                Ohio
                            , Indiana, 
                        Illinois, Missouri, Michigan, Wisconsin
                     , and 
                                Iowa
                            . Contemplate the progress of the empire westward—the millions that
                            are to fill up that vast region possessing facilities unequaled on all the globe. Sir, the scepter will depart from Judah. Is it not better for you to do us
                            justice than to allow us to redress our own grievances, smarting under the sense of the
                            illiberal, narrow policy of the old States towards us? Do gentlemen suppose we will be
                            unmindful of our friends?" Cong. Globe, 26 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            Appendix, 192.
               
                    
                    The next morning was cloudy and so cold that we had to wear cloaks, although it was the middle of
                        June. We traveled four miles over the prairie, when we came to a belt of timber and found six
                        miles of the worst road I had yet seen, if road it may be called, for in this State no labor is
                        done upon the road except to build corduroy bridges over sloughs that have become impassable. In
                        the midst of this timber there is a little hamlet of log cabins called Independence, though as
                        well known in the vicinity by the name of Pin-hook. This town, as it is called, contains two
                        stores, and, what is an uncommon sight, a school-house. About a mile from town we came to the
                        Embarras river, and as the ferryman lived half a mile on the other side we found ourselves in an
                        embarrassing situation.
                    Here we found six wagons and as many families of emigrants from the east. The men were cutting
                        fuel, watching their horses that were grazing &c. The women were washing, cooking, and
                        arranging their goods, while the children in the happy carelessness of youth, were playing all
                        manner of pranks upon the river banks; the whole forming a capital scene for the pencil. I
                        entered into conversation with these people and found them from different parts and bound some
                        for Sanga-man country and some for 
                            Missouri
                        , and some for they knew not where, only they were going west, and I thanked my
                        stars that I had not been mad enough to bring my family hither, but that they were then enjoying
                        the comforts of home.
                    Having at last got the ferryman down to the river, we crossed over and stopped at the first farm
                        house: this is in Coles county. The next morning we saw several wagons moving east, and as it is
                        as much a custom to inquire where one is bound, where from, and to ask other similar questions,
                        as it is for ships at sea to speak each other, we were soon acquainted with their history. These
                        people had been, some to 
                            Warren county
                        , on the 
                            Mississippi
                        , and others to 
                            Iowa
                         territory. They had all been sick, and had lost many of their kindred by death;
                        they had sacrificed their property, and, poor and disheartened, they were almost begging their
                        way back to the east. This group and the one we saw yesterday are specimines of what may be seen
                        daily on all the great routes in the west.
                    We took leave of our host, who was a jolly Kentuckian, after breakfast, and pursued our way over
                        level prairie, so soft that our horses tracked deep at every step, but no sloughs. We had to
                        ford one creek about three or four feet deep, and at the end of 20 miles we came to the Great
                        Okaw, a narrow sluggish stream, which we crossed by a ferry, and as it was 16 miles to the next
                        timber, we put up, for it is impossible to travel in the night, and the traveler must seek a
                        shelter before night or camp out, which, for a person unprepared for it, is no joke.
                    Early in the following morning, we started in company with two other wagons from the east, and
                        traveled over low prairie, and were obliged to go through three sloughs of the "biggest
                        kind," each nearly, and, one of them more than a quarter of a mile wide. I was obliged
                        to wade and lead my horse in water up to my hips, and frequently got through without assistance,
                        while my fellow travelers were obliged to  hire an ox team to
                        haul them through. At 6 o'clock we reached the Little Okaw, which we crossed on a rude
                        bridge, and put up, having consumed the whole day traveling 16 miles, and we were very diligent
                        too.
                    In the morning we parted company with our fellow travelers, who kept the road to 
                            Springfield
                        , while we turned off north towards 
                            Decatur
                        , and having reached there we concluded to tarry until the next day. 
                            Decatur
                         is built upon a broken piece of ground, on the north side of the Sangamon river
                        (which is here about 50 yards wide), 35 miles above 
                            Springfield
                        , and is the seat of 
                            Macon county
                        . It is full of stumps, has a few good houses at respectable distances, and contains
                        200 or 300 inhabitants: but being the only town in the county, it has considerable trade and may
                        become an important place. Here for the first time, I saw an ox mill for grinding corn. I
                        afterwards saw many of them. The construction of them is simple: a circular plane is made of
                        plank, with a shaft in the centre from which it is braced; the shaft is inclined some 16 or 20
                        degrees from a perpendicular, which gives the plane the same inclination to the horizon, and the
                        gearing is on the periphery of the plane or platform, and upon this from two to six oxen are
                        placed, according to the size of the mill, who put the machine in motion. It is the simplest
                        kind of tread-mill.
                    We left 
                            Decatur
                         early by the northern road. It was a splendid morning: the air was clear, the sky
                        was cloudless, and the prairie being higher and more rolling, the road was dryer and better than
                        any we had seen for a long time, and we rode on in high spirits. About 9 o'clock we
                        came to an impassable creek, and supposed that we had misunderstood the directions we had
                        received in town, and were out of our way—a misfortune to which travelers are very
                        liable, for most of the inhabitants are new settlers and quite ignorant of the geography of
                        their neighborhoods, and those who do know anything about it, are as bungling as the sons of
                        Erin in giving directions. In our dilemma we turned towards the head of the creek, hoping to
                        strike the proper track in that direction, and after traveling until noon without finding any
                        other track or making any progress in our way, we came to a halt. The creek where we then were,
                        though broad was fordable, being only about two feet deep. The grove where we entered the
                        prairie was just discernable, and we could see timber upon the other side, at the distance of
                        from 10 to 15 miles. We did not like to go back and we knew not the way forward. My companion
                        had a pocket compass and map, and with the assistance of these we ventured to proceed. Having
                        taken the bearings of the grove we had left and of our track, we computed our departure as
                        accurately as we were able, and laid down our course; then crossing the creek we traveled by the
                        compass over the trackless prairie until late in the afternoon, when we struck the timber within
                        a few miles of the road we should have traveled. We had then five miles to travel, over as bad a
                        road as was ever traveled, to get to 
                            Clinton
                         a new town on the north side of Salt Creek, which stream we crossed upon a bridge
                            very much like the roof of a Dutch barn, and near which we got stuck in a
                             mud-hole from which it took us an hour to get out. I
                        never before realized the extent of the misfortune of those who get rowed up Salt
                            Creek.
               
                    IV
                    
                  
                            Clinton
                         is a town recently laid out, contains ten or twelve Houses, and is the seat of De
                        Witt county; put the two together and we have De Witt 
                            Clinton
                        . It is needless to say that the projectors are Yorkers, and have displayed a rare
                        specimen of American ingenuity in naming towns and counties. Proceeding north, the prairie
                        becomes more rolling and road better. We passed through two or three belts of timber, in one of
                        which I saw a quantity of stable manure placed along in the road, as we in the east would use
                        gravel, probably because it was less labor to put it there than to cart it out upon the prairie.
                        At the end of 25 miles we came to 
                            Bloomington
                        , the seat of McLean county, situated on the edge of the prairie on the north side
                        of Blooming Grove. This is a pleasant, thriving town, containing several good buildings; it has
                        three steam mills, a number of stores, two taverns, and there is the appearance of a good deal
                        of business; lots in town are held at high prices, and timber land in the grove is valued at
                        from twenty to thirty dollars an acre. Many of the inhabitants are from New 
                            England
                        . We spent the remainder of the day and the night at 
                            Bloomington
                        , and the next day took the road towards 
                            Peoria
                        . We found a very good road through a fine tract of country—rolling
                        prairie and timber alternating, and a pleasant ride of twenty-five miles brought us to the
                        village of Macinaw. While there we had a heavy shower, and after crossing Macinaw river we were
                        overtaken by another hard rain, which compelled us to stop at the first house we came to. I
                        speak of houses, though properly speaking there is very seldom anything but a log cabin in the
                        country, except in the towns, and there even the greater number of buildings are often cabins.
                        The shelter we obtained this night was in fact a cabin of the "worst kind,"
                        but our situation made it as acceptable as a palace would have been in other circumstances. The
                        next morning was cloudy, cold, and uncomfortable. We resumed our journey and three miles brought
                        us in view of Tremont, the seat of Tazewell county. We passed the town at the distance of about
                        a mile, and I regretted that we did not take the road through it. After we crossed the Macinaw
                        we began to discover gravel in the hills; the road is generally better, and the water is more
                        palatable than that which we found before. The groves in this vicinity are chiefly white oak and
                        hickory, and as we came near the 
                            Illinois
                         river we found a good deal of clay. The road down the bluff is very steep and
                        dangerous. We crossed the river about one o'clock and entered 
                            Peoria
                        .
                    
                  
                            Peoria
                         is beautifully situated on the west side of the river, which at that place makes a
                        bend to the eastward, something less than a semicircle; the bluff comes near to the river, and
                        is covered, as is the narrow strip of bottom land, with a thick growth of timber; on the west
                        side the ground rises gradually to the second bottom, an elevation of twenty or thirty feet, and
                        the town is principally built upon this ascent; the second bottom extends back to the bluff
                        something more than a quarter of a  mile; there are a few
                        scattering trees on the face of the bluff, and on the top of it are a few houses commanding a
                        fine prospect of the town ten or twelve miles of the river, and the surrounding country. The
                        prairie stretches back from the bluff a mile perhaps to a belt of timber. On the whole it is the
                        finest site for a town that I ever saw. 
                            Peoria
                         contains 1200 inhabitants, 3 taverns, 25 stores, 1 printing office, and Mr.
                        Huntoon, favorably known at the east, has established a school there which succeeds well, but
                        though the place is pleasant, it is very unhealthy.
                    After a sojourn of two days we took leave of 
                            Peoria
                        , and recrossed the river four miles above the town, into Tazewell county. Soon
                        after a hard rain set in, and we got most thoroughly wet again, and we found no stopping place
                        until we got to a place called Partridge Ridge, 12 miles from 
                            Peoria
                        . Here we found comfortable accommodations, and concluded to stop a few days and
                        look about the country. Accordingly the next day we rode around the neighborhood some ten or
                        dozen miles, and called at several farms, among others at that of Mr. Buckingham, who had been
                        in the country seven years, has a very large estate, keeps about 100 head of cattle, besides
                        many horses and hogs. He had in his cribs from 1000 to 2000 bushels of corn, for which he said
                        he could find no sale even at the low price of 18 3-4 cents. Winter wheat does not succeed well
                        in this neighborhood; spring grain does well, but corn is their principal crop, and cattle and
                        hogs are their only resource to obtain money. Farming is done in a slovenly manner, labor is
                        high and not easily obtained: female labor hardly to be gotten at any rate. There are no public
                        schools and private schools are rare.
                    We made another excursion across the prairie eastward to Walnut Grove. On the prairie we passed
                        half a dozen houses which had a desolate appearance and upon inquiry I found that it is the town
                        of 
                            Hanover
                        , which contains not a single inhabitant—the last family having moved but
                        some months before, and the post office which had been established there was removed about three
                        miles to a sawmill in the grove, because there was no person left in town to serve as
                        postmaster. At Walnut Grove we called at the house of a Mr Curtis and went over his farm. I saw
                        there several pieces of English grass, or as it is called in the west, tame
                        grass, and I observed that some of it looked better than the rest, and Mr Curtis's
                        told me that it had been manured. He uses manure upon all crops, although his prairie is of the
                        best kind, and I saw a great difference between the crops that were manured and those that were
                        not. The prairie will not produce good crops of grass without manure, and Mr. Buckingham told me
                        the same.
                    A heavy rain kept us within doors on the third day, and the next we rode to Mr
                        Buckingham's and tarried over night: our fare here was simple but abundant, and we were
                        treated with genuine hospitality. The evening was passed in pleasant conversation before a
                        bright fire, which blazed cheerfully in the huge stone chimney. Although it was near the last of
                        June, there had been scarcely an evening when a fire was not agreeable, although the day might
                        have been very hot. In the morning we left our host and travelled in the direction of 
                            Peru
                        . The country about Crow Creek, which we passed in the afternoon, is very  fine The land is rolling, alternate prairie and barrens, affording
                        some splendid views; the bed of the creek is of pebbles and the water is clear and
                        sparkling—Oxbow prairie is also very pleasant: we saw there plenty of apples and
                        peaches. North of the Oxbow prairie we came to a little town called Magnolin, containing about
                        twenty houses. About a mile from town we stopped for the night at the house of a Mr Hawes, who
                        was the first settler in this part of the country. He is located in the edge of the timber near
                        a fine brook, and is the wealthiest man in this neighborhood.
                    Our route the next day was over prairie about fourteen miles. We then came to barrens, where we
                        had a bad winding road down to the river, which we crossed with difficulty and entered 
                            Peru
                        .
                    
                  
                            Peru
                         is at present a small town of about 300 inhabitants. It is built principally upon
                        one street at the foot of the bluff, but being at the head of navigation at low water, and the
                        termination of the canal from 
                            Chicago
                         and of the railroad to Dixon's ferry, its prospect for future prosperity
                        is flattering. Leaving 
                            Peru
                         we followed a deep ravine in the bluff and came upon the prairie back of the town
                        where we lost our way, and darkness overtook us upon the open prairie, where we were obliged to
                        pass the night without provisions or a bed; and with bad lodgings, empty stomachs, and
                        musquitoes withal, we had an uncomfortable night enough.
                    At daybreak we discovered that our horses were gone, and it was not until sunrise that we
                        recovered them and got upon the right track and rode to Homer, 10 miles from 
                            Peru
                        . Homer is a small town near the Little 
                            Vermillion
                         river, in La Salle county; the day was extremely hot, and we stopped a while and
                        then rode on four miles to 
                            Troy
                         grove. The country around the Little 
                            Vermillion
                         is very beautiful, the soil is first rate, and the water good; but yet I was told
                        that it is unhealthy.
                    The next morning we left 
                            Troy
                         grove and entered upon the wide prairie, where wood and water are seldom
                        found,—eight miles brought us to Four mile grove, where we found an excellent spring;
                        thence to Pawpaw grove is six miles. The prairie here is quite high and rolling, even
                        hilly—and the subsoil is gravel; the groves on the contrary are low and flat,
                        occupying the lowest places where there is water, and are heavily timbered.
                    Between Pawpaw and Four-mile grove we enjoyed the most extensive view that I ever saw upon land:
                        towards the N.W., S.E. and N.E. in the direction of 
                            Chicago
                        , there is nothing to intercept the sight for a distance of perhaps from 40 to 60
                        miles; indeed as far as the sight can extend, nothing but one boundless field of waving grass
                        with here and there a little grove, which appear like little specks or miniature islets upon
                        this vast verdant ocean. It is a "grand prairie" indeed. In this vast
                        solitude, man with all his powers sinks into utter insignificance.—the beholder is
                        astonished—his thoughts expand with his perception—but they will recur to
                            himself, and then he feels his nothingness. The least reflecting man is
                        sensible to the grandeur of the scenery upon the Alleghanies—but here much more so,
                        for the scene is truly sublime.
                    
                    Four miles from Pawpaw we came to Allen's grove where we stopped for the night, the next
                        house upon our route being sixteen miles. We were now in Ogle county. The land here is not yet
                        shrveyed and consequently not in market.
                    From Allen's our route was to plum grove, seven miles, thence to Brodie's
                        grove, nine miles:—we enjoyed the same unbounded prospect as the day before. As we
                        advance north the prairie becomes drier and more sandy. In the hollows between the swells we
                        found many shallow ponds but no good water in the whole distance, The next house was at
                        Driscol's grove, seven miles, and fearing that night might overtake us we stopped at
                        Brodie's.
                    As my readers may not be acquainted with the fare of travelers in the west, I shall be more
                        particular with regard to our accommodations at this place, though I admit that I take an
                        extreme case; but still a pretty good general notion may be gathered from it. Brodie's
                        grove contains from 100 to 200 acres, and there are three families living there whose nearest
                        neighbor is seven miles off, and nearest mill and grocery is at Belvidere, 23 miles, and in this
                        particular they are better off than many others in the country by nearly a day's ride.
                        For our horses we could obtain neither hay nor grain, but the young man went out into a slough
                        near by, and mowed some coarse grass, which suffered for our beasts; for ourselves we obtained
                        some new corn bread in the shape of a good thick johnnycake with butter, and a bowl of milk,
                        which we ate, seated on a good oaken bench, it being out of the latitude for chairs, and while
                        thus employed, a half grown chicken happened in at the open window and laid claim to a share of
                        the butter. Our supper over, we lighted our pipes and began to take a close survey of the
                        premises. The house, or cabin rather, was of the ordinary construction, being about 20 feet
                        square, built of logs locked together at the corners, a door of goodly dimensions in the middle
                        of one side, and a window exactly opposite upon the other side, with a huge fireplace at one
                        end, and at one corner a rude ladder which served as an apology for a staircase leading to the
                        attic story. The cabin had been "chinked and daubed"—that is, the
                        cracks between the logs had been filled with bits of wood and plastered over with clay, but this
                        finish had yielded to the weather, in many places affording very convenient peeping holes, and
                        giving good assurance that the interior was well ventilated at least, and to complete the
                        elegance of the mansion, it was enclosed, according to fashion of the country, with a worm
                        fence, to keep the hogs and cattle at a respectful distance.
                    We observed three or four athletic, savage looking fellows, well armed with pistols, who had
                        apparently no business, but were lounging about, amusing themselves with violins, and who were
                        very inquisitive with regard to our route and business, and as they seemed to fancy my
                        friend's horse, he was not a little uneasy lest the said horse might be found absent in
                        the morning. We took care, however, to show no concern, and kept our suspicions to ourselves.
                        Having carefully noticed the whereabouts of this den of horse thieves, which in fact it was, we
                        retired early and ascending the ladder aforesaid, we took possession of a  sort of flock-bed upon the floor near a good sized crevice, through
                        which we could, by the light of the moon, observe all that passed without. Not long after the
                        loafers came up and occupied other beds similar to our own, and about midnight another came from
                        abroad, but finding all full he went away probably to another cabin. Not withstanding all these
                        circumstances, I was so fatigued with my journey that I could not withstand the attacks of
                        Morpheus, and slept soundly until near sunrise, when we arose and found our horses standing
                        quietly at the fence where we had tied them, and hastily putting on their saddles we left and
                        went on our way, grateful that we were still in life and had horses to ride.
                    I may as well state here that this part of the country is much infested with horse-thieves and
                        counterfeiters, who are supposed to have a line of stations from 
                            Wisconsin
                         through Grand prairie and into 
                            Missouri
                        ; and Driscol's and Brodie's groves are suspected to be two of the
                        principal posts, and never was a country better adapted to such a business than this, these
                        insulated groves separated by smooth open prairie, where a pursuer may be seen at a great
                        distance, giving the rascals ample time to make all snug and to conceal themselves and their
                        plunder by day and to escape by easy stages at night.
                    We breakfasted late at Driscol's grove, then pursuing our journey, four miles brought us
                        to the south branch of the Kiskwaukie. This is a rapid and very clear stream. From thence to
                        Belvidere on the north branch is twelve miles, most of the way over high and rolling prairie.
                        From the top of a hill four miles from town is one of the finest prospects in the country. We
                        observed two men following us on the prairie, whom we lost sight of as we descended the hill
                        south of Belvidere. Instead of going into the village we turned to the right and went two and a
                        half miles up the river to my friend's house;—the next morning we learned
                        that two saddles had been stolen in the village, very probably by the fellows that followed us;
                        but our horses were safe in my friend's stable.
                    Belvidere, the seat of Boon county, is prettily situated on the edge of Squaw prairie, which was
                        an old Indian settlement, on the north branch of the Kishwaukie or Sycamore river. At present
                        the village is not large but it is gaining fast, being in one of the finest sections of country
                        in the west, and on the State road from 
                            Chicago
                         to Galena, it bids fair to become an important town. It has a small church, an
                        academy handsomely situated on a mound near the centre of the village, two public houses,
                        several stores, two sawmills, and a flour mill. On the mound the skeleton of Big
                            Thunder, a celebrated Indian chief, is still to be seen in a sitting posure, within a
                        small stockade erected by the natives.
                    The country about the Kishwaukie is chiefly oak openings or barrens, though there is no lack of
                        prarie of the best kind, and immediately on the river there is considerable meadow or bottom
                        land, too low for cultivation, but the soil is firm and very well adapted for grass, and the
                        settlers depend upon these bottoms for all their hay. The Piskasaw, a beautiful stream from the
                        north, enters the Kishwaukie one and a half mile east from Belvidere. The water of these streams
                        is clear and sparkling, the current quick, and the beds hard gravel and pebbles. The  water of the wells in this section is clear and pleasant, and free
                        from all impurities except lime, with which all the water in the whole western country is
                        impregnated. I stopped in this neighborhood about a fortnight, making observations and
                        collecting information about the country, the substance of which I shall give in another place.
                    V
                    In company with a gentleman from 
                            Massachusetts
                         who arrived a day or to after I did, by a different route, I made an excursion into 
                            Wisconsin
                        . Leaving Belvidere we followed the Galena road to Beaver creek, then turning north
                        we rode through a fine country of alternate barrens and prairie, affording many very beautiful
                        prospects, to Beloit, at the mouth of Turtle river which enters Rock river exactly on the line
                        of the state and territory. Here is a thriving little town, having several mills in active
                        operation, 22 miles from Belvidere; thence we passed up on the east side of Rock river six miles
                        and stopped for the night; it was near the middle of July and the weather very warm, and the
                        heat and musquitoes, which were of the "tallest kind," caused us a rather
                        uncomfortable night.
                    Early in the morning we started and following the river, at the end of a mile came to the bed of
                        an ancient river, about the present size of Rock river, tending to the eastward. Crossing this,
                        our route was over high prairie, which is uniformly about four to six miles wide, and at that
                        distance from the river the land appears to rise and is covered with wood. After riding six
                        miles the road leads into a ravine, where we missed our way and followed another road up the
                        ravine a short distance, when we found that it turned eastward, where it presented the perfect
                        outlines of an ancient riverbed; there were bluffs upon each side and numerous gulleys worn out
                        by the water, and its course curved towards the south and na doubt is a part of the same that we
                        saw below, and from all appearances it is probable that at some time the Rock river meeting with
                        obstructions at the sugar loaf mountain, which is just below, made a circuit to the eastward,
                        something in the form of an oxbow, and came into its present course about five miles below.
                        Finding that we were wrong, we turned back and with some difficulty found our way to Janesville,
                        a paltry little town with only one good house. We there forded the river, the water being about
                        five feet deep and wetting our saddles; we then followed the road on the west side of the river
                        towards 
                            Madison
                        , whither we intended to go. There is a belt of timber, chiefly burr oak barrens,
                        next to the river, then there is a strip of prairie about five miles wide and parallel to the
                        river, and on the west the prairie is bounded by a grove of timber. These features continue nine
                        or ten miles to the junction of the River of the Lakes; there are no inhabitants and the travel
                        is not sufficient to kill the grass, excepting a narrow path resembling an Indian trail. We had
                        been directed at Janesville to keep the plainest track, and when we came near the River of the
                        Lakes it turned to the left more than we thought it ought, but we saw no other track, and
                        therefore followed it. Before we had travelled far, the track turned more to the left and out of
                        the course for 
                            Madison
                        ,  until we found ourselves travelling S. W. We
                        were certain that we were going wrong, but there was no person within ten miles of whom we could
                        enquire the way, so we concluded to follow the track lead where it might; as our only business
                        was to see the country, it was little matter where we went. Our route led through a pleasant
                        district of prairie and timber until we came to Sugar river, where we met a traveller with a
                        horse and wagon, of whom we inquired where we were and whither the road lead. He informed us
                        that we were upon the public square of the town of Centreville, 25 miles from Janesville and on
                        the road to 
                            Mexico
                        , In travelling this distance we had seen no person nor found any water; our
                        traveller informed us of a spring at Sugar creek, a smaller stream four miles further, and that
                        three or four miles beyond that we would find inhabitants.
                    Centreville was laid down upon our map as a large town having several roads leading from it in
                        different directions, but in fact the town exists only upon paper, not a tree having been cut,
                        nor any trace of civilized man being seen, and the only road was the indistinct trail which we
                        had been following. We forded the river, here about three feet deep, and rode on to the creek
                        where we found the spring which the traveller had described, and about sunset we brought up st
                        the hospitable cabin of an old Pennsylvanian, where we were kindly entertained after a ride of
                        45 miles, without refreshment of any Bind except water.
                    Our host had a farm of about 800 acres, which he had lived upon one season only, and had not
                        cultivated a large portion of it, but he had a strong force and was making preparations for
                        producing on a large scale; the family was intelligent and I noticed a good many books and
                        papers which it is not very common to see in a new settler's cabin.
                    It was late in the morning when we left them; we were now farther from 
                            Madison
                         than we were the morning before, and we had lamed one of our horses badly, and
                        therefore we gave up our purpose of going there, and determined to make a circuit by the
                        Pekatonica homewards. Accordingly we rode two or three miles westward to Richland grove, a fine
                        body of timber land about twelve miles by five in extent, and then struck across the prairie
                        about six miles to Rock grove, where we came into the road leading to 
                            Rockford
                        . Passing by this grove we saw plenty of fine raspberries, the only berries of any
                        kind that I had seen in the country.
                    From Rock grove the road runs eastward through a very good tract of country near the boundary of
                        the state [
                            Illinois
                        ] and territory [
                            Wisconsin
                        ]. We rode slowly until nearly night we stopped in a settlement of 
                            Vermont
                         people, a number of families of whom had removed together from the same
                        neighborhood and settled here in one of the best farming districts in the country. We had now
                        travelled through Rock and Green counties in 
                            Wisconsin
                         and entered Winnebago county in 
                            Illinois
                        . As our entertainment was not the most agreeable, we got off early in the morning,
                        and a ride of four miles brought us to Trask's ferry, where we crossed the Pekatonica.
                        This river is a deep muddy stream, and runs through a wide bottom covered with very heavy
                        timber. From thence to 
                            Rockford
                        , 12 miles, our road was over dry rolling prairie without inhabitants,  except at a small grove four miles from town; in our ride we met a
                        number of wagons with emigrants from 
                            Canada
                        . 
                            Rockford
                         is a tolerably pleasant town of 40 or 60 houses on both sides of Rock river, and is
                        the seat of Winnebago county. There is a ferry and a fording place having a smooth rock bottom,
                        with about two or three feet of water; this rock constitutes the principal obstruction to the
                        navigation of the river, and from this the own derives its present name; it was first called
                        Midway, on account of its being half way between 
                            Chicago
                         and Galena. Above 
                            Rockford
                         the river is navigable about 70 miles. We crossed the river and dined at the 
                            Rockford
                         house, a hotel of considerable pretension; but never fared poorer at any hotel in
                        my life, nor paid a more extravagant bill; and I would advise travellers to stop at the public
                        house on the other side of the river, where I dare say they will be better served.
                    The environs of 
                            Rockford
                         are very beautiful; the land is gently undulating, the prairie and wood alternating
                        agreeably, and a large portion of the land is fenced and dotted with farm houses; indeed the
                        remark justly applies to the whole country bordering the Rock river; a more beautiful country
                        cannot be imagined. After dinner we again mounted our horses and reached home toward night,
                        having travelled in this excursion about 140 miles.
                    During the remainder of my stay at Belvidere I spent my time riding about the country, and made
                        acquaintance with a number of people with whom I was pleased so much that I concluded to settle
                        here if anywhere in the west, and purchased a beautiful situation in the neighborhood; but the
                        western fever had been somewhat checked and I had some misgivings with regard to removing, and
                        resolved to return home and reflect upon the subject, with the assistance of the new light that
                        I had acquired in the course of my travel; and now if my readers will accompany me back to New 
                            England
                        , I will endeavor to entertain them on the way and then give them the reasons that
                        have determined me, which I think will be useful to them in their determinations upon the same
                        question.
                    My friend accompanied me to 
                            Chicago
                        , whither we rode in a wagon. The country eastward as far as Pleasant grove is very
                        fine and fast filling up: from thence to Fox river there are few inhabitants, and the country is
                        not so pleasant being chiefly dry rolling barrens.
                    Elgin on Fox river appears to be a growing town, and is rather pleasantly situated. The river is
                        broad but too shallow to admit of navigation. We rode 12 miles from Elgin that day in a bitter
                        N.E. wind, SO cold that we were uncomfortable with cloaks on, and when we stopped for the night,
                        I was quite chilled, and was glad to occupy a seat by a good fire the whole evening.
                    Early in the morning we resumed our journey and arrived at 
                            Chicago
                         about noon. 
                            Chicago
                         is situated at the mouth of a small river or creek, is surrounded by a low flat
                        prairie which extends either way about 10 miles, and in wet seasons the roads are almost
                        impassable; the site of the town is not more than 18 inches above the level of the lake; the
                        location is favorable for business, and the canal which is now being made  thence to 
                            Peru
                        , connecting the lakes with 
                            Illinois
                         river, will give the town great advantages.
                    There are some very good buildings in 
                            Chicago
                        , particularly the "Lake House," one of the finest hotels in the
                        country; but on the, whole the town does not make a good appearance. The population cannot be
                        more than 5000, though it is often stated much higher.4 The next morning
                        after my arrival I tok passage on board the steamer Gen. 
                            Wayne
                         for 
                            Buffalo
                        , and at 10 o'clock I took leave of 
                            Chicago
                        .
                
            [The remainder of the fifth installment of the narrative and the first portion of the sixth
                    installment consist of an account of the journey from 
                        Chicago
                     to the traveler's home in New 
                        England
                    . The return was by steamboat to 
                        Buffalo
                    . The transition to Lake 
                        Ontario
                     required two train rides, one to 
                        Niagara Falls
                     and a second from there to Lewiston. A steamboat carried Mr. Gould to Oswego, from
                    which city he went on by train, changing cars at Schenectedy, and arriving at 
                        Albany
                     twenty-six hours after boarding the train at 
                        Syracuse
                    . The trip down the Hudson was made between 7:00 A.M. and 4:09 P.M., the
                    "quickest passage on record" to that time according to the author of this
                    narrative. The final sentence relative to this extensive western excursion of 1839 (May 16 to about
                    August 16) reads: "At 5 o'clock P.M. I left 
                        New York
                    , and at 7 the next morning I was at my own house, having travelled since I left home
                    about 4,0005 miles, and the last 600 of it in 39 hours, including
                    stops."]
            
                    VI
                    GENERAL VIEW OF THE WESTERN COUNTRY.
                    Those who have read the foregoing pages will perceive that I have travelled through some of the
                        most important portions of our country, and having travelled much with men who are extensively
                        acquainted with other portions of the country, I have received the benefit of their observations
                        and comparisons upon the spot, and I will now give some general remarks with regard to the soil,
                        climate, agriculture, population, &c., and the conclusions which I have drawn, in the
                        hope that it may be useful to some of my readers and save many from the trouble and sacrifice
                        consequent to an ill-advised removal of their families, with false hopes and under circumstances
                        which render such a removal extremely unwise and in a majority of cases unfortunate.
                    Traveling from the Atlantic coast westward, the country is divided into three great divisions,
                        which are plainly distinguished from each other by their natural features. The first is that
                        part of the country 
                     
                        4 The census of 1840 gives the population of 
                                    Chicago
                                 as 4,470.
                     
                        5 Mr. Gould had traveled a vast number of miles, but 4,000 seems
                                too large a figure. Three thousand miles would seem to be more nearly correct for the
                                total distance traversed while on this western trig.
                  
                         which lies east of the Alleghany mountains, and may be
                        called the Atlantic country, or the east; the second embraces all the country west of the
                        mountains and east of the 
                            Wabash
                         river and a line drawn from that river to the west of lake 
                            Erie
                        , may be termed the middle or forest country; and the third embraces all beyond the 
                            Wabash
                        , even to the Rocky mountains, and may be called the prairie country, or the far
                        west.
                    The first division is distinguished by the unevenness of the surface, being broken into hills and
                        valleys, and generally possesses a hard, rocky soil. This is the country for romantic views and
                        picturesque scenery, and better adapted for grazing, than a grain growing country, though there
                        are tracts in this division, equal at least, to the most fertile districts in our whole country;
                        these tracts are found in the eastern part of 
                            Maine
                        , the valley of the 
                            Connecticut
                         river, a tract about thirty miles wide west of 
                            Albany
                        , reaching nearly to lake 
                            Erie
                        , and a large tract lying in the central and southern portions of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        ; and there may be other tracts of small extent of equal fertility, but as this
                        division has become an old and well settled country, and is generally well known, I shall say
                        little more about it except for the purpose of comparison.
                    After crossing the Alleghanies we descend into the great valley of the 
                            Mississippi
                         and its tributaries. Western 
                            Pennsylvania
                         and the eastern part of 
                            Ohio
                         are hilly, but the hills are smoothe and rounded, and of small elevation compared
                        with the hills of the east, and they diminish in height until they become only gentle swells, or
                        what is called rolling, and the north west corner of 
                            Ohio
                        , and the central and southern part of Indiana, are flat and level or nearly so.
                    The distinguishing features of this division are a deep rich soil, comparatively free from
                        stones, and very dense luxuriant forests. The soil in the eastern part of this section is of a
                        reddish brown color, which is imparted to it probably by the decomposed debris
                        of the red sandstone, which is the principle rock of the Alleghany ridge. The color WOWS darker
                        until in Indiana it becomes nearly black. The whole region abounds in clay which is more or less
                        incorporated with the soil. The rocks are almost if not quite all, limestone. I do not remember
                        of having seen a stone of any size in the western country, except of limestone, or which did not
                        contain lime. From these facts we should be led to expect a soil well adapted to grain,
                        particularly wheat, and to grass; and such is in fact the case. In Indiana, however, Indian corn
                        generally does better than the smaller grains, which I apprehend is owing not so much to the
                        character of the soil as to the flatness of the surface.
                    What is here said of the middle region will probably apply to western 
                            Virginia
                        , to 
                            Kentucky
                        , and perhaps to 
                            Tennessee
                        , though as I have no personal knowledge of those States I may be mistaken.
                    West of the 
                            Wabash
                         we find a country of a peculiar character. The northwest part of Indiana, nearly
                        the whole of 
                     Michigan, Illinois
                  , the southern half of 
                     Wisconsin, Iowa,
                                Missouri
                  , and the territory west of
                        the Rocky mountains, is all a prairie country. Instead of the dense forests of the middle
                        region, we find an immense extent of country without  timber
                        of any kind, except here and there insulated groves and narrow belts along the banks of the
                        water courses. Timber is the general term applied to woodland in the west:
                        thus in traveling across the prairie they speak of going from one timber to another; but yet
                        they make a distinction between the wood in high and low situations.
                    The wood growing along the margin of streams and in low lands is similar to the forests in
                        Indiana, consisting of beech, black walnut, sugar maple, sycamore, white and red oak, popular,
                        bass, hickory, &c., and is called particularly, timber; that growing
                        upon high rolling land is chiefly burr oak, mingled in some places with white and black oak, and
                        hickory, and such tracts are called barrens or openings. The
                        soil of the prairies is a black sandy loam; it has no crust of vegetable mould, but the whole
                        depth of the soil is alike, being a mechanical compound of minute particles, similar to the
                        deposites in estuaries of the large rivers, and although a large portion of the prairies,
                        particularly in the south, have clay underlying the soil, there is very little of the clay
                        incorporated in the soil. The banks of the rivers and creeks are generally clay, and as far as
                        the timber extends the soil contains a good deal of clay: this is the case also in the barrens,
                        and it is a common remark that wherever there is timber the soil contains more or less clay. In
                        the northern part of 
                            Illinois
                         and in 
                            Wisconsin
                        , the subsoil is generally gravel, yet the character of the top soil is very nearly
                        the same as in the south, though as might be expected, it is rather drier, both because the
                        gravel absorbs more water, and the surface is more rolling.
                    The prairies in the southern counties are generally called level, but they are not strictly so:
                        there are slight undulations, but the difference in levels does not amount to many feet. The
                        water drains off from the higher portions into the hollows, where it remains until it is
                        evaporated, and these places are famous sloughs, of which we hear so much, and in wet seasons
                        they are very ugly places to pass, as I have reason to know. As we travel northward the surface
                        becomes more undulating or rolling, and the sloughs are more narrow.
                    On the margins of rivers there are in many places considerable tracts of natural meadow; these
                        tracts are called bottoms; the soil is similar to the high prairie, but lying low and being
                        overflowed at every freshet, it is moist, but not marshy. These bottoms are too low to admit of
                        cultivation, but are valuable for grass; there are other tracts of small extent which are
                        marshy.
                    We often hear extravagant stories about the grass upon the prairies. It has been represented as
                        growing as tall as a man upon horseback, and the idea is prevalent that the prairies produce
                        enormous burthens of excellent grass, and many writers have taken much pains to establish such
                        an idea—but it is not so. Upon the little patches of low bottoms, particularly about
                        the 
                            Illinois
                         river, there is indeed some tall grass resembling a little the common blue-joint of
                        New 
                            England
                         meadows, but coarser and much inferior for fodder. The grass of the bottom land
                        generally and of the sloughs, is something like the common grass of our meadows, though I think
                        generally of better quality for hay. It rarely grows more than one and a half or two feet high,
                        and the average  quantity to an acre cannot exceed a ton of
                        cured hay, and the extreme is not more than two tons. The high prairie is not well adapted to
                        grass. That which does grow, when young is very tender and affords excellent pasture: it comes
                        to maturity early and is then a coarse harsh grass of little value: its height is from eight to
                        ten inches when fully grown, and an extreme crop will not exceed half a ton to the acre. I have
                        seen many fields of cultivated grass, both timothy and red top, and when highly manured the
                        yield is for two or three years on the best prairie a ton to the acre; without manure the yield
                        does not exceed half a ton. This surprised me exceedingly, for the same soil often yields forty
                        bushels of wheat, and in the east we expect a large crop of hay where we obtain a large crop of
                        grain. I account for a different result in the west in this way: the soil as before stated is
                        sandy, and the long droughts in summer parch up the surface exceedingly, and grasses which do
                        not root deep suffer from the drought; but grain comes forward early, and the thick growth
                        protects the earth longer than the common grasses, and when it does dry the straw has come to
                        maturity. Corn and other plants which root deep are not injured by the summer droughts, and
                        hence I think that red clover would succeed well: but I never saw a field of it upon the
                        prairie, nor have I seen any one who has tried it. The bottoms may be converted into valuable
                        meadows by simply burning off the wild grass in the spring and sowing grass seed.
                    From these facts it is evident that 
                            Illinois
                         will not be a good grazing country, but it is admirably adapted to the production
                        of grain. The scarcity of springs and rivulets is another obstacle to the raising of stock. The
                        southern part of the State is generally admitted to be rather destitute of water, but the
                        northern part of the State is said to be well watered, but it is so only in comparison with the
                        south. At present while the whole country almost lies common, there is no difficulty in keeping
                        large stocks of cattle, but when the country becomes filled up and the farms fenced, the case
                        will be different. There are very few farms which have a permanent supply of water for stock.
                    VII
                    The southern half of 
                            Wisconsin
                         is quite similar to 
                            Illinois
                        , but the face of the country is more rolling and there is a larger proportion of
                        timber. There is a fine district of country in the vicinity of Rock river, about 20 to 40 miles
                        north of 
                            Illinois
                         line, and another between Sugar river and the Pekatonica; the latter is the best
                        farming district that I have seen west of 
                            Ohio
                        ; it is well watered by the finest 'springs; there is an abundance of
                        timber and stone enough for all useful purposes may be obtained by digging a few feet below the
                        surface in most of the hills. The northern portion of 
                            Wisconsin
                         is a forest country, producing the different varieties of pine as well as hard
                        wood. The northern part of 
                            Michigan
                         is a forest country also.
                    The climate of the country west of the Alleghaney mountains is undoubtedly milder than in the
                        same parallels east of the mountains. Some writers have undertaken to show that there are no
                        more fair days there than in the east; how that may be I know not, but the principal  advantage of the climate I apprehend is, that the spring is more
                        favorable. When winter breaks up it does not "linger in the lap of spring" so
                        long as in the east, but warm weather advances more regularly and vegetation is not so
                        frequently checked by cold easterly storms.
                    In the prairie country where the rays of the sun are not obstructed, the evaporation is very
                        great and rapid in the summer and the dews are very heavy, so that one can scarcely go out in
                        the morning without being wet to the knees as thoroughly as though he had waded in the creek.
                    As soon as the sun is down the air becomes damp and chilly, and it is not prudent to go out in
                        the evening without warm clothing even in midsummer. It is probable that the fever and ague is
                        brought on by exposure to the night air, as often as from any other cause.6
               
                    The quality of the water is an evil in the western country, though this is denied by some. Mr.
                        Jones in his book "
                            Illinois
                         and the West," says that he never drank a drop of unpleasant water in 
                            Illinois
                        , and compares it to the pure sparkling water of the Green mountain springs, but if
                        Mr. Jones could detect no difference, his taste must be much less delicate than mine; but I
                        presume he drank none but river water until he came to Tremont, because no other is used on
                        board the steamboats and his travels by land, according td his own account, were limited to a
                        ride from Tremont to Rock river and back, and from 
                            Peru
                         to 
                            Chicago
                        , so that he found no water of very bad quality; but the water about Tremont and 
                            Peoria
                         is certainly not good, except comparatively. The truth is, that all the water in
                        the western country is strongly impregnated with lime, and where clay abounds the water contains
                        various salts and earthy substances which render it disagreeable and unhealthy and in many
                        places it is nauseous. Where gravel takes the place of clay the water contains very little of
                        any other substances except lime, and it is clear and sparkling and not very unpleasant to the
                        taste, and I presume is not unhealthy, thought it acts medicinally upon strangers: such is the
                        water in 
                            Wisconsin
                         and the northern part of 
                            Illinois
                        ; the greatest inconvenience arises in the use of it for washing—the lime
                        makes the water hard.
                    Many opinions are expressed in regard to the healthiness of the western States; some insist that
                        the whole country is unhealthy; others assert that it is as healthy as the eastern States. That
                        every part of the country has been at times unhealthy, will not be denied: and this has been the
                        case in all countries when first settled, except those in high latitudes, and it may be
                        attributed in a great measure to the greater exposures of the settlers, the change of climate,
                        of diet, ignorance of the character of the prevalent diseases, the want of proper remedies and
                        medical advice. But without doubt there are many places which are decidedly unhealthy from
                        permanent local causes. The low level districts in Indiana, 
                     Illinois, Michigan
                   and Ioway, and the vicinity of large rivers generally have a
                        sickly season as regularly as summer and winter. The common diseases are of a billious character
                        and are said to yield 
                     
                        6 This was almost the universal view of the pioneer
                                folk—a mistaken notion which has not yet disappeared entirely.
                  
                         readily to medicine in most cases, if attended to
                        seasonably. Pulmonary diseases are not common. The high rolling district I believe to be as
                        healthy after the first summer's residence, as any districts in the east in the same
                        parallels.
                    Agriculture is not pursued with economy or neatness in the west. Farmers give their attention
                        chiefly to the cultivation of grain. Corn is the greatest product. They raise besides corn, a
                        large amount of oats and wheat: rye and barley are seldom raised. In the forest country they
                        clear their land by deadening the trees, which they do by girdling, which method they prefer to
                        cutting, because they sooner get rid of the stumps: the dead trees in a few years fall down and
                        pull out a part of the roots: they then burn them on the ground. As soon as the clearing will
                        permit, they put in wheat or corn, and the same field is cultivated for one kind of grain many
                        years in succession.
                    On the prairie they usually plough in June or July, and let the sward lie until the next spring,
                        though it is often ploughed in May and planted to corn by cutting holes with an axe in every
                        third or fourth furrow: this is called sod corn, and it receives no further
                        attention after planting. Sod corn often yields nothing but fodder, but usually it yields from
                        ten to fifteen bushels to the acre. I have seen it stated that sod corn yields ordinarily 35 or
                        40 bushels, but I venture to say that such a crop was never known upon prairie sod. I never
                        heard any experienced man rate it higher than 15. After the first season the land is light and
                        friable, and a single horse answers very well to plough it, though two are generally used. The
                        common practice is to plant corn in hills, and when it is three or four inches high they begin
                        to plough it and continue the operation until the corn begins to set for ears: it is then
                        "laid by." Very few hoe their corn at all; sometimes after the last ploughing
                        the large weeds are chopped down, and corn thus tended in the southern counties yields on an
                        average 60 bushels to an acre, in the northern 35 to 40 bushels. The kind raised in the south is
                        the flat corn. There are several varieties; that which is esteemed the best is the yellow dent.
                        In the north the hard flint corn is raised, the southern corn being liable to be cut off by
                        frost. With the use of manure and careful cultivation the crop may be very much increased, and
                        more than a hundred bushels have been raised upon an acre; but the average without manure, is
                        not higher than above stated.
                    An average crop of winter wheat is about 25 bushels and spring wheat about 18. Oats average from
                        40 to 50 bushels. I have seen 40 bushels of wheat to the acre and from 70 to 80 of oats; but
                        these were extra crops.
                    Roots are very little cultivated. A few potatoes, beets, English turnips and onions are raised,
                        but no large crop of either. Many farmers who raise 600 bushels of corn will have not more than
                        20 bushels of potatoes. In the far west no one thinks of raising roots for cattle, so far
                        a& I am acquainted. The soil appears to be admirably adapted to roots. On Fox river the
                        cultivation of beets for the manufacture of sugar is beginning to excite attention, and some
                        experiments have been made, with what success I did not learn. Beet sugar may become a great  staple in the west. Gardening is very little attended to.
                        Most farmers raise a few vegetables, but a regular garden is hardly to be found in the west.
                    Fruit trees flourish remarkably well throughout the whole western country, and in the older
                        settlements there are fine orchards of apple and peach trees. The only fruits which are
                        indigenous in the west are crab apples, wild plums, paw paw, raspberries and strawberries. The
                        paw paw is not found in the north. Plums are very plentiful in almost every grove.
                    The horse is a favorite animal in all the western states, and the farmers generally take pains to
                        rear horses of good blood. The horses generally are lighter than in 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , but more active.
                    Very little attention is paid to the breed of cattle. Milk and butter are of little value and
                        cheese is hardly known; hence the quality of cows is a matter of very little concern. I have
                        seen, however, some of the finest cattle in 
                            Illinois
                         that I have ever seen in my life, but in general a more ill-looking, black,
                        ring-streaked and speckled race of cattle have never been known since the days of the patriarch
                        Jacob.
                    Hogs are very plenty and the farmers in 
                            Ohio
                        , Indiana and 
                            Illinois
                         rely upon them principally as a means of obtaining money. They are generally of a
                        miserable breed? long-nosed, long-legged animals, apparently better fitted for running than for
                        any other purpose. They go at large upon the commons and in the woods, living upon grass, mast,
                        &c. till autumn, when they are fed a little while with corn, and when ready for market
                        the average weight does not exceed 150 lbs. The farmers seldom slaughter their hogs but sell
                        them to be driven to 
                     Cincinnati, Alton, Chicago
                  
                        and other markets, where the slaughtering and packing of pork is made an extensive business. The
                        usual price that id obtained is from three to four dollars a hundred weight.
                    VIII
                    In the thick timber bottoms along the 
                            Illinois
                         river and in the swamps of Indiana, there are great numbers of wild hogs, which are
                        occasionally hunted, and many are taken, but they are hardly worth the killing.
                    Sheep are not very common, on account of the wolves, but in some parts of 
                            Ohio
                         there are considerable flocks, and there are a few in 
                            Illinois
                        . The high rolling prairies make excellent sheep pastures, and they thrive
                        exceedingly well there. There is no finer mutton to be found in the world perhaps, than in 
                            Illinois
                        . Sheep husbandry might be made very profitable there.
                    The wild animals most common there are deer, wolves of two kinds, the grey wolf and the prairie
                        wolf, foxes, badgers, rabbits, otters and squirrels; bears are seldom seen.
                    Of birds there are wild turkies, in the forest country partridges, which are generally called
                        pheasants, quails, called also partridges; grouse, or prairie hens, cranes, snipes, larks,
                        parroquets—very beautiful birds with white bellies, black wings, and head and neck a
                        bright scarlet;  and a few other small birds, besides water
                        fowl, which are plenty at particular seasons.
                    The lakes and streams are well stocked with fish of various kinds, and many of large size.
                    From these lists it will be seen that sportsmen have fine opportunities for the exercise of skill
                        in their various arts.
                    The people of the western States suffer great inconvenience from the want of ready markets for
                        their produce. Notwithstanding the noble lakes and rivers, the numerous canals and railroads
                        which have been, and are being constructed, intersecting the country in all directions, still a
                        great portion of the country does and always will suffer in this respect. The west is destined
                        to be an agricultural and not a manufacturing country. Almost all branches of manufactures are
                        carried on by means of water power or greatly facilitated by its aid, and the west has but a
                        small share of water power, not more than sufficient to drive the saw mills and flour mills
                        necessary for the country; hence no large communities of consumers of agricultural produce can
                        grow up in the country, except in the cities and these can never be so numerous as to consume a
                        large amount compared to what will be produced; therefore the great staples only can be carried
                        to market, and these to a great distance, to be exchanged for the various manufactures of other
                        countries and the produce of other climates, and must seek a market chiefly at the Atlantic
                        cities and 
                            New Orleans
                        . Improve the internal conditions as much as they may, a canal or a railroad cannot
                        be made to every man's door, nor through every town nor every county, and the largest
                        part of the produce must be transported a considerable distance to any of these improvements and
                        thence a long and expensive route to the ultimate market, and when we consider the vast extent
                        of fertile country to be cultivated, and the enormous amount of produce, we really see that
                        prices must be low, and deducting the cost of transportation, the farmer's profits must
                        be small, and the prices of manufactured and foreign goods must be high, exactly in proportion
                        to the low prices of his own produce, and from the same causes—the cost of
                        transportation and the commissions of the many hands through whom they must pass; and it is only
                        the great staples that can be sold at all, for the various little things that are profitable to
                        raise for a handy market, will not pay for the transportation to a distant one; thus, to use a
                        familiar phrase, "any way you can fix it" the west must suffer a great
                        inconvenience from the want of a market, which goes far to balance the greater fertility of her
                        soil.
                    The population of the western States is of a mixed and heterogeneous character; the immigrants
                        are from all the States and of almost of every nation, and there is little union among them. The
                        southern portion is chiefly settled by people from the more southern States, and are generally
                        denominated "Hoosiers"—a nick-name, which particularly appertains
                        to the inhabitants of Indiana; the northern portion has a majority of New 
                            England
                         and 
                            New York
                         people, who are styled "Yankees." The manners and customs of the
                        two classes are different, and there is mutual jealousy between them. Besides these two classes
                             there are many foreigners, especially Irish and 
                            German
                        —the latter generally settled in little communities by themselves or in
                        connection with the decendants of Germans from the middle States: and although these different
                        races live peacably with each other, there is little of that harmony and kindly feeling which
                        exists among the people of New 
                            England
                        ; and a long period must elapse before the whole population will become assimilated
                        and melted down into one homogeneous mass. Good society may be found in the west, even in the
                        newest settlements, but it must be selected.
                    The laws and institutions of the western States, excepting 
                            Missouri
                        , are copied in a great measure from those of 
                            New York
                         and New 
                            England
                        . 
                            Ohio
                         is especially a Yankee State. The more western States differ more from us. Towns
                        and parishes are scarcely recognized in law. The corporations which are denominated towns, have
                        powers and privileges unlike the towns with us. Almost all municipal affairs are managed by the
                        county officers, the most important of whom are the county commissioners and sheriff, who are
                        periodically elected by the public.
                    Public schools are provided for with some degree of liberality. The government has appropriated
                        one section in each surveyed township, that is one thirtysixth part of all the public lands, for
                        the use of schools, and the States have established other funds for the same purpose; but the
                        people are generally unable to contribute much individually, and a great many do not properly
                        estimate the importance of educating their children—teachers who are competent are
                        with difficulty obtained, and consequently the facilities for education are indifferent. There
                        are a few persons who are interested in the cause and who tell that in a few years they will
                        have good schools, and that the means of education will be abundantly sufficient to satisfy the
                        wants of the community, and in 
                            Ohio
                         a great deal has been done; but in general these advantages exist mainly in the
                        future prospect; and in the meantime the present rising generation will grow up in comparative
                        ignorance.
                    The means of obtaining general information are limited; the public journals are nearly all of
                        them ill-conducted concerns, containing little which is calculated to improve the tastes or the
                        morals of the readers; libraries and literary societies are rare, and the conversation of the
                        people of the west is almost wholly upon tangible subjects connected with the all-absorbing
                        object of accumulating property.
                    These things will undoubtedly be changed in time, and the western country will improve much
                        faster than the Atlantic country has done; but at best a long period will be required before the
                        moral, intellectual and social advantages of the west will be equal to what they are in the
                        east.
                    The common buildings in the west are log cabins, which are built by locking logs together and
                        filling the crevices with splinters and clay. On the inside the logs are usually hewn off; the
                        chimney projects the whole size from one end of the house, and the fireplace is built of stones,
                        if they can be procured; if not with timber lined with a thick coat of clay: single floors of
                        boards or rough planks complete the finishing of  the
                        dwelling. These cabins are comfortably warm but rather inconvenient habitations. A good cabin
                        costs about one hundred dollars. After a time these cabins are exchanged for framed or brick
                        houses, the cost of which is greater than the cost of similar houses in many parts of New 
                            England
                        .
                    One of the greatest inconveniences of houses in Indiana and 
                            Illinois
                         is the want of good cellars; as there are very few localities high and dry enough
                        to have a dry cellar, and it is very difficult to drain them: hence there are very few houses
                        there which have any cellars at all.
                    What great advantages are to be realized by emigrating to the west?
                    The emigrant who has a capital may obtain good land at a very cheap rate, and the rise of
                        property will eventually make him rich; in the mean time if he is industrious, he may have an
                        abundance of substantial food, indeed most of the necessaries of life; and he may have them too
                        for one half the labor that would be necessary to obtain them at the east; but the luxuries,
                        comprising many things which he has been accustomed to all his life, and which most people
                        esteem as almost necessary to the comfort of life, are not easily obtained.
                    Except the opportunity which is afforded to the man who has the capital to become rich by
                        speculation, I know of no important advantage to be gained by emigrating to the west. Mechanics
                        and laborers have no better opportunities there than at the east. Merchants and professional
                        men, if they are talented and active, will almost always obtain wealth and honors in the west,
                        and such men will succeed any where: and men who are wanting in talent and activity, will always
                        be losers by going away from their connections and friends. It is almost a proverb in the west,
                        that one who has not the "go ahead" in him will never
                        succeed.
                    I do not conclude that it would be better for all to remain where they are. A
                        young man who has a little money but not enough to give him a start in life, and who has in
                        addition, strong hands and a light heart, will do well to emigrate, if he will avoid whisky and
                        gambling, and attend to his own business.
                    A man who has a family of boys to prodive for and who may have been unfortunate, but can yet save
                        something from the wreck of his property, will find it advantageous to emigrate to the new
                        settlements in the west, where he can begin anew with a prospect of success. But a young man,
                        whether a farmer, a tradesman, a merchant or a professional man, who can enter life with a
                        tolerable prospect of acquiring a competence, and of supporting a family in his own
                        neighborhood, and the man who is settled in life and in comfortable circumstances, and also the
                        man who is entirely destitute of means, had better remain where they are; and if they acquire
                        less property they will be likely to enjoy life better than they would to emigrate: the
                        middle-aged man especially, who has been settled in comfortable circumstances, and removes,
                        whatever may be his success will always regret having left his home.
               
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               The Civilization of the Old Northwest. By BEVERLY W. BOND, JR. The Macmillan Company, 
                        New York
                    , 1934. Pp. ix+543, $3.50.
            This volume on the Old Northwest naturally recalls the book of Burke A. Hinsdale so long accepted as
                    the standard treatise on the old "Territory Northwest of the River 
                        Ohio
                    ," including all of the states of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Michigan
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    . However, the work under review, covering the years 1788 to 1812, is rather a sequel
                    than a revision of the story told in the earlier book. With the exception of "A Century of
                    Progress" chapter at the last, Hinsdale's book, published in 1888, centers on the
                    period before 1788. The paths only cross occasionally as in the varying estimates of St. Clair. Dr.
                    Bond extends the period but evidently does not find even a "fiasco" in 
                        Wisconsin
                     during what he calls "the formative period of the Old Northwest"
                    covered by his book. 
                        Wisconsin
                     is omitted. Each of the other four states is given a separate chapter with 
                        Ohio
                     alloted somewhat more space. As a whole it is as if Hinsdale dealt with the framing of
                    the "codes" (The royal charters and the ordinances of 1785 and 1787) while Bond
                    explains how the "codes" were carried into effect. General Arthur St. Clair may
                    not have been exactly a General Hugh Johnson but he was likewise a tour de force.
            
            A further comparison of the two books would reveal the changing concept and status of historical
                    investigation since 1888. Instead of depending almost exclusively on government documents and
                    secondary works as was the practical necessity in Hinsdale's day, Dr. Bond also makes
                    extensive use of such sources as diaries, letters, newspapers, the Northwest
                        Territorial Papers and the highly valuable state historical society collections (except
                    that no use is made of those of the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    ). Too, the book under review stresses the social and economic phases, the
                    "new" history. It is the "development, institutional, social, and
                    economic of the civilization of the Old Northwest, in the basic period between the founding of the
                    first colony at 
                        Marietta
                     in 1788 and the outbreak of the War of 1812," which constitutes "the
                    central theme" of the book. It was in this territory and during  this period that the "American colonial system" was
                    tested and vindicated, avers Dr. Bond.
            The book opens with a chapter on the land, the population, and the American colonial policy as the
                    bases of the civilization. The major "lure of the western lands" for the pioneers
                    is conceived as consisting in the opportunity to better their living conditions. Letters and reports
                    from friends and others are rated as the most important contributory cause of their migration
                    westward. Following the general chapters on the early American government of the Old Northwest and
                    the process of passing from territory to state come the separate chapters on each of the 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Michigan
                     lands. Then follow individual chapters on the conquest of the Indians, the distribution
                    of land, agriculture, communication, trade and industry, cultural and social foundations, religion
                    and order, with a concluding chapter on the vindication of the "American colonial
                    policy." It is an appetizing menu and a delectable diet.
            As one reads these interesting pages, other than chapters I, 11, 111, XVI and those on individual
                    territories, one does not get the idea that The Civilization of the Old Northwest
                    is a history of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     with incidental references to and generalizations on the Old Northwest, but one does
                    become rather convinced of the truth of the statement in the preface that "the library of
                    the Historical and Philosophical Society of 
                        Ohio
                     in 
                        Cincinnati
                     has furnished the backbone" for the research. This is probably more true of
                    the chapter entitled "Cultural and Social Foundations" than of any other. It is
                    probably true that "as usual, 
                        Cincinnati
                     led the way" but it scarcely seems wise to support so many generalizations
                    with illustrations and evidence drawn from 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The name, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , appears in this manner seventy-five times within the compass of this chapter (pp.
                    424-464). 
                        Ohio
                     University at 
                        Athens
                     was "a backwoods university" before 1812 but one wonders why the
                    reference to the revival of the University of 
                        Cincinnati
                     "in the form of a great municipal university" came within the
                    discussion on these years. There may be some overuse of the words "typical,"
                    "distinctive" and "especially" in these connections. Was not the
                    culture of the Old Northwest more characteristically than distinctively American? Was a region
                    bounded on the north by the Great Lakes and on  the south by the
                        Ohio River "insulated"? The appropriateness of the use of
                    the words "startling" (e.g., p. 37) and "striking" (e.g., p.
                    421) is not always clear.
            Although the style is hardly sprightly and the pattern is more the mosaic of a McMaster than a
                    synthesis by a Becker, the Civilization of the Old Northwest does assemble much
                    material of value and interest to the student of the Kultur-geschichte of early
                    pioneer America. Hinsdale called attention to the necessity of such a sequel to his book when he
                    wrote: "The influence of the country beyond the Alleghany Mountains on the population that
                    occupies it, its reaction on the Atlantic Plains, and its effect on the national life, character,
                    and government are themes demanding fuller investigation than they have ever received;" and
                    then characteristically added, "but this work may fitly close with a rapid view of the
                    trend of political thought in the Old Northwest" (pp. 405-406). Bond's book is
                    that sequel and is in fulfillment of the desire of Frederick Jackson Turner expressed about a
                    quarter of a century ago when he said in a commencement address at Indiana University:
                    "American society has reached the end of the first great period of its formation. It must
                    survey itself, reflect upon its origin, consider what freightage of purpose it carried in its long
                    march across the continent, what ambitions it had for the man, what role it would play in the
                    world" (The Frontier in American History, p. 281). It is hoped that this
                    excellent pioneer effort of Dr. Bond my stimulate others to further fulfillment of the desire of the
                    master historian of the West.
            ROBERT LAFOLLETTE
            
         
         
            The twelfth number of the Franciscan Studies which is dated August, 1933, is a
                    monograph by Theodore Roemer, O. M. Cap., Ph.D., entitled Ludwig-Missionsverein and the
                        Church in the 
                            United States
                        , 1868-1918 (
                        New York
                    , 1933, Joseph F. Wagner, Inc.). This study consists of one hundred sixty-one pages,
                    including an index and bibliography and sells for sixty cents. The author had access to excellent
                    sources which he used with skill. In the introduction to his bibliography, he says: "The
                    cource material for this study was gathered in the archives of the Ludwig-Missionsverein at Munich.
                    These contain about 2,300 letters from the United  States,
                    written by bishops, priests, nuns and laymen. These are supplemented by 300 letters published in the
                    Munich Annalen, 1848 to 1918, most of which have not been preserved in the
                    originals." The information gathered at Munich was checked and enriched by researches made
                    in the 
                        United States
                    , especially in 
                        Milwaukee
                    , Racine and 
                        Detroit
                    . The Editors of the Franciscan Studies are to be highly commended for
                    the publication of this doctoral dissertation.
            
               A Business System of City Government by Theodore F. Thieme, is a pamphlet of ninety
                    pages which was recently published by the author. (Copies are not for sale, but may be obtained from
                    Mr. Thieme by those interested in problems of City government.) Mr. Thieme, who has had an
                    outstanding career as a business man of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , has long been deeply interested in the improvement of both state and city government,
                    and the present appeal shows that his desire for reform in the municipal field has not abated. He
                    begins with a strong indictment of the present regime: 
                        City government in America is a conspicuous failure. The failure of its government has been
                            forced upon every city, large or small, in the 
                                United States
                            , time and again for the past fifty years. The government of cities in the 
                                United States
                            , almost without exception, is bad—bad almost
                            beyond expression; the most backward, the most deplorable, the worst in the civilized
                        world.
                    
            
            After discussing attempts at improvement so often made and attempting to show the reasons why they
                    were thwarted, the crusading author deals with the nature of the city and follows with the
                    recommendation that municipal government be made a profession, Types of city government are
                    explained and the systems in use in nineteen of the world's important cities are described
                    by the use of material contained in letters obtained by Mr. Thieme from the mayors of the cities
                    concerned. Contrasting these cities with American cities, he finds them to be marked by
                    "progress and efficiency," while in those of our country "waste,
                    confusion, corruption and backwardness" are prevalent.
            Mr. Thieme believes in municipal ownership of public utilities and in "home rule"
                    for cities. He is hopeful of a better future, and concludes his stimulating contribution by the
                    paragraph: 
                    
                        We may be at the dawn of an awakening that will bring a spirit of enlightened cooperation,
                            national and local, such as we have never yet contemplated. Perhaps the nation will come to
                            the aid of the cities by maintaining a great academy for the training of public
                            administrators as it does for the army and navy, as suggested recently by a prominent
                            writer. Then our cities would become reservoirs of confidence and strength rather than
                            spectacles of confusion and incapacity. Instead of being the failures of democracy, they may
                            become the hope of democracy.
                    
            
            The Proceedings of the Fifteenth Annual Indiana History Conference, which was held
                    at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on December 8-9, 1933, have been published recently by the Indiana Historical Bureau
                        (Indiana History Bulletin, Number 5, Volume XI, February, 1934). The Bulletin runs to 138 pp., and contains several of the papers which were read at
                    the Conference, while the titles of the remaining papers are given with an indication of where they
                    are to be published except in those instances where not available for publication. The following are
                    to be found in the Bulletin: "The Bicentennial of General Arthur St.
                    Clair," by Mrs. Frederic Krull; "Preliterate Cultures in Indiana," by
                    Glen A. Black; and "Successive Stages of Occupation of a Notable Prehistoric
                    Site," by E. Y. Guernsey.
            Thomas B. Stevenson of 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, has in his possession a collection of letters which were written to his
                    father Colonel Thomas B. Stevenson, by Henry Clay during the years 1844 to 1851. Colonel Stevenson
                    edited Whig papers at various times in Maysville, 
                        Frankfort
                    , and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . He was devoted to the interests of 
                        Clay
                    . Most of the letters relate to the presidential campaign of 1848 in which 
                        Clay
                     refused to play any part after the nomination of General Taylor. When preparing 
                        Clay
                    's correspondence for publication Calvin Colton obtained only one of the
                    letters to Colonel Stevenson. This was one written at 
                        New Orleans
                     on January 31, 1849, which Colonel Stevenson had given to his brother. Fortunately,
                    Colton learned of the other letters before completing the manuscript of his life of 
                        Clay
                     written to accompany the correspondence and speeches. Volume IV of the Works of Henry Clay, made up of the correspondence, came out too soon for the insertion of
                    the letters of Stevenson, the consequence of which was that these important letters were relagated
                    to an appendix of Volume III, the last of the  biographical
                    sketch. No mention whatever is made of the Stevenson collection in Volume IV of the Works, though it is discussed in the preface and contents of Volume III. In the later
                    edition of 
                        Clay
                    's Works (1904), the Stevenson letters were not incorporated
                    with the general body of correspondence, but were allowed to remain as an appendix of Volume III.
                    This is bad enough, but still worse is the fact that even in the new edition, no mention of the
                    Stevenson collection is made except in the preface and contents of Volume III.
            The valuable letters thus published out of place were edited by Colonel Stevenson. Some names and
                    other matter which he deleted for reasons that seemed good to him can be supplied from copies of the
                    originals furnished to the Indiana Magazine of History by Daniel W. Snepp of the
                    Bosse High School in 
                        Evansville
                    . The part omitted at the beginning of the letter of February 19, 1848, reads: 
                        I have recd. your favor of the 11th inst—for which I thank you. I have only time
                            to express the results of my observation and opinion.
                        
                     I think the fervor for Genl Taylor abated.
                     That it is probably impracticable for him to get the nomination, or if he were to get
                                it to be elected, without a more distinct avowal of Whig principles than he has yet
                                made.
                     That the demonstrations in my favor have considerably increased of late.
                  
                    
            
            The letters from 
                        Clay
                     to Stevenson dated December 7, 1847, May 20, 1848, October 29, 1848, and November 3,
                    1850, in which there are omissions as published, are not now in the collection of original letters.
                    The omitted name in the letter of August 5, 1848, is Genl. Vance [Joseph Vance].
                    In the letter of August 14, 1848, the first name missing is Mr. Van Trump
                    [Philadelph 
                        Van
                     Trump], the second is Vance, and the third is Mr.
                        Campbell [Lewis D. Campbell]. A name is omitted in the letters of September 12, and October
                    9, 1848, which in each case is T. Corwin [Thomas Corwin]. The deleted matter at
                    the beginning of the letter of December 21, 1849, pertains to a personal interest of Colonel
                    Stevenson, in which 
                        Clay
                     was trying to aid him.
         
         
         
            Comment
            There prevails a wide-spread conviction that college and high school instructors in the various
                    social studies should devote much of their time to clearing up current economic, social and
                    political problems. It cannot be denied that there are fundamental problems on which light is
                    needed. Men of affairs who are engaged in business, social work or politics are divided into groups
                    ranging from reactionaries on the one hand to extreme radicals on the other. The extremists of the
                    right have learned nothing and seemingly have no tendency to gather wisdom from abundant experience.
                    Extremists of the left are equally anxious to cry down and defeat any moves not completely in
                    harmony with their own set formulas. The more open-minded elements who occupy the ground between are
                    divided on almost every problem. They want action, but cannot get together.
            It would be a happy situation, perhaps, if teachers of the social studies were in substantial
                    agreement all ready to march together while leading their troops of students in a battle for reforms
                    guaranteed to work out happily for all, The truth is, however, that college and high school teachers
                    include reactionaries, near-reactionaries, near-liberals, liberals, near-radicals, and possibly a
                    few who have no desire to see any part of the existing economic regime preserved. Whoever assumes
                    that a different situation prevails in surely in error. It is folly for anyone to expect that all
                    teachers of history and kindred subjects can impartially examine the facts in relation to the
                    present emergency and decide readily what policies are constructive and sound. If let alone by
                    propagandists of one school or another and encouraged to consider without bias the different angles
                    of current questions, they may do a great deal of good. They can at least try to send their students
                    on with open minds and some power to resist the appeals of those who know just what they want and
                    who are out to attain their selfish ends by innocent-looking means.
            Stirred by the need of change in his day, James Russell 
                        Lowell
                     one day wrote: 
                    
                        My soul is not a palace of the past, Where outworn creeds, like 
                                Rome
                            's gray senate, quake Hearing afar the Vandal's trumpet
                            hoarse, That shakes old systems with a thunder fit. The time is ripe, and rotten-ripe, for
                            change; Then let it come: I have no dread of what Is called for by the instinct of mankind;
                            Nor do I think that God's world will fall apart Because we tear a parchment more or
                            less.
                    
            
            The sentiment of this passage seems to fit the times in which we live even better than those in which
                    the poet wrote. There is now a great fear indeed on the part of frightened conservatives lest the
                    world which their heroes have dominated shall "fall apart." History is in the
                    making whatever the future may bring, and time will reveal what the verdict of history is to be in
                    regard to those who fall back upon a parchment, made in a period of change, as their chief resource
                    in resisting change in a new day of unrest.
            The Daughters of the American Revolution in Indiana are encouraging the marking of historical sites,
                    for which they should be highly commended by the public. A contest was staged in which a prize was
                    offered, that resulted in the naming of a number of sites worthy of being marked. Among the Indiana
                    places proposed by various local chapters of the D.A.R., the following were included: The Harrison
                    House in 
                        Vincennes
                    ; the first American fort in Ft. 
                        Wayne
                    ; the boyhood home of Thomas A. Hendricks in 
                        Shelbyville
                    ; the old site of Springville in 
                        Clark County
                    ; the site of the Indian village of Nees-wau-gee in 
                        Marshall County
                    ; the Scribner House in New 
                        Albany
                    ; a section of the Whitewater Canal near 
                        Connersville
                    ; the "Underground Railway" station near Eaton; the site of the Indian
                    village of Prophetstown near the mouth of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     about eight miles above 
                        Lafayette
                    ; the Pivot, a spot from which land surveys were and are still made in 
                        Orange County
                    ; the site of the Half-Moon Fort in the same County; Cornstalk Town in 
                        Montgomery County
                    ; the grave of Elizabeth Lindsey, the first white person who was buried in 
                        Fulton County
                    ; and the site of Lindsey's Corn-cracker Mill in the same County. It is
                    expected that all these places will be properly marked in time, either under local or state
                    auspices. No doubt the D.A.R. will continue to cultivate  the
                    historical spirit and lead the people to increase their appreciation for the heritage which the past
                    has left to them.
            The Historic American Buildings Survey has been established with the purpose to conserve certain
                    historical resources. Types of dwellings such as man has devised in various times and climes serve
                    as evidences of his advancement and adaption to circumstances. The Secretary of the Interior, Harold
                    L. Ickes, mentions the adobe hut, the cliff dwellings of the agricultural Indian, the tepee of the
                    nomadic Indian, the log cabin of the pioneer, the cottage, the farmhouse, the city dwelling, each as
                    expressing "eloquently the culture and mode of life of the original owner." He
                    also points out that chapters of the nation's history are likewise illustrated by the
                    "churches and missions of the Franciscans and Jesuits of the South and West, the churches
                    of the Russians in 
                        Alaska
                    , the meeting houses of the Puritans in the East and Middle West, the colleges,
                    hospitals, mills, warehouses, shops and other buildings."
            Many specimens of early American architecture have long since ceased to exist, others are in a state
                    of decay, and still others will some day disappear. It is impossible to preserve all old structures
                    that possess historical value and interest. It is the purpose of the Historic American Buildings
                    Survey "to record in a graphic manner and by photography the exact appearance" of
                    a great number of buildings and their surroundings before it is too late.
            Our state is, of course, interested and involved in this American Survey initiated by the federal
                    government. For the district of Indiana, Herbert Foltz of 
                        Indianapolis
                     is the Director. He is supported by an advisory committee made up of Arthur Bohn
                    (chairman), Anton Schemer, Frederic Polley, Christopher B. Coleman and Lee Burns, all of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . A beginning of the Survey was made with a list of the following buildings in Indiana:
                    the Rappite buildings in 
                        New Harmony
                    ; the old Cathedral with its Chapel, and the Harrison House at 
                        Vincennes
                    , the covered bridge built by the Kennedys across Flat Rock Creek just east of 
                        Rushville
                     on the Conners-ville Road; the Swinney Homestead in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ; and the Markle Mill just north of 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Records of other buildings will be rnade as the survey progresses.
            
            The "History Teachers' Forum" is a new feature inaugurated in this issue.
                    Each quarter two or more pages will be devoted to the problems of high school and college teachers
                    of history. Those having material which they wish to submit for publication in this new department,
                    should send copy to Dr. F. Lee Benns, President of the History and Social Studies Section of the
                    Indiana State Teachers' Association and Professor of European history at Indiana
                    University.
            Contributors to this issue: Dr. James Alton James is William Smith Mason Professor of History at
                    Northwestern University; Dr. James Albert Woodburn is President Emeritus of the Indiana Historical
                    Society and Professor Emeritus of History at Indiana University; Ross F. Lockridge of 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, is a lecturer on Indiana history for the Extension Division of Indiana
                    University and a representative of the World Book Company; Viva W. (Mrs. William H.) Spieth lives at 
                        Lebanon
                    , Indiana; Mrs. Corinne Schenck Dahmen lives in 
                  Los
                            Angeles, California
               ; Dr. I.
                    Owen Foster is an Associate Professor of Education at Indiana University; Dr. Robert LaFollette is
                    Head of the Department of Social Studies at the Ball State Teachers College.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History, may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries fn different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write to the
                        Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers:
            
               
                  ∗ Volume I, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907)
               Volume IV, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1908).
               Volume V, 2, 3, 4 (June, Sept., Dec., 1909).
               Volume VI, 1, 3, 4 (March, Sept., Dec., 1910).
               Volume VII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1911).
               
                  ∗Volume VIII, 1, 2, 4 (March, June, Dec., 1912).
               Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
               
                  ∗Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               
                  ∗ Volume XVII, 4 (Dec. 1921).
               Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
               Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume. Issues from 1905-1913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold at two
                    dollars per number.
            
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files. Anyone having
                    any of these publications will confer a great favor by writing to W. A. Alexander, Librarian of
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                
            
               Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
               Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue, The University needs the following to fill out
                    the files.
            
               1832-1833. Wanted 3 copies.
               1833-1834. Wanted 3 copies.
               1834-1835. Wanted 3 copies.
               1836-1837. Wanted 2 copies.
               1837-1838. Wanted 2 copies.
               1839-1840. Wanted 2 copies.
               1840-1841. Wanted 2 copies.
               1843-1844. Wanted 2 copies.
               1849-1850. Wanted 2 copies.
               1853-1854. Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               The Mennonite Quarterly Review. Wanted a copy of number 1, Vol. I.
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                         Lore. Wanted copies of Numbers 3-8, 10-11, 13, 15-17, 22, 26-29, 34 and 35 of
                    1929; Numbers 53 and 60 of 1930.
         
      
      
         
      
   
