
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 011, Issue 4, pages 285-399. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:011+issue:4+year:1915&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Reminiscences of the Burning of 
                        Columbia
                    , 
                        South Carolina 
                    
            
            By MICHAEL C. GARBER, JR., 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana
            The following letters and official reports will show something of the bitterness of the dispute over
                    the burning of 
                        Columbia
                    : 
                        "And without hesitation I charged General Wade Hampton with having burned his own
                            city of 
                                Columbia
                            , not with a malicious intent, or as the manifestation of a silly
                            'Roman stoicism,' but from folly and want of sense, in filling it with
                            lint, cotton and tinder."—Report of MAJOR GENERAL
                            WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, dated Goldsborough, N. C, April 4, 1865.
                        "In my official report of this conflagration, I distinctly charged it to General
                            Wade Hampton, and confess I did so pointedly, to shake the faith of his people in him, for
                            in my opinion he was a braggart, and professed to be the special champion of 
                                South Carolina
                            ."—GEN. WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, in his Memoirs.
                  
                        
                            
                        
                           
                              "He (Sherman) shall be dealt with in the manner that all defamers
                                            deserve, and my language shall be so plain and the proofs so overwhelming
                                            that even he himself can understand, obtuse though he may be to the
                                            obligations due to or from a gentleman."—LIEUTENANT GENERAL WADE HAMPTON, in Letter of June 24, 1873, with
                                            Appendix.
                           
                        
                     
                        
                        
                            
                        
                           
                              "I have proved that every assertion made by Sherman in his official
                                            report, so far as they have been quoted here are false, and I shall now
                                            prove, not only that his troops burned the city, but that the destruction of
                                            it was premeditated."—LIEUTENANT GENERAL
                                                WADE HAMPTON, in Letter of June 24, 1873, with Appendix.
                           
                        
                     
                        
                    
            
            The burning of 
                        Columbia
                    , 
                         South Carolina 
                    , February 17, 1865, was one of the most deplorable events of the Civil War and one that
                    has left a deep and ineradicable scar. The event was so dreadful as  in itself to demand attention, and interest in the disaster is further
                    increased by the picturesque and choleric personalities of the two principals concerned in it.
            Gen. William T. Sherman was the commander of the invading army, and Gen. Wade Hampton in immediate
                    command of the Confederates who resisted Sherman's entry into 
                        Columbia
                    .
            No two men better typified their causes, their people and civilizations than these. Each was a
                    gentleman of the noblest character, each a thorough soldier and distinguished citizen. Each is now
                    held in the highest esteem in his own section, but is not so well regarded in the other parts of the
                    country. Sherman and Hampton accuse each other of the destruction of 
                        Columbia
                    .
            To read the statement of either alone is to be convinced by its force and fierceness. To read both
                    impels one to pause and consider. To read all the other data obtainable, finally, is to reach a
                    conclusion, doubtless correct, and honorable to each of the exceedingly militant generals, whose
                    splendid characters, heroic careers, and lovable personalities will eventually win and hold the
                    admiration of the American people of all sections for all time to come.
            The fact is the two men were much alike down to their cock fighting proclivities, and this explains
                    much of their vehemence in speech in relation to each other.
            The writer believes that both Sherman and Hampton were thoroughly sincere in what they uttered; that
                    they had considerable foundation for their convictions, but that both failed to grasp the truth on
                    the other's side, and were in consequence, more or less in error.
            The writer, when a boy of fourteen, accompanied his father, Col. Michael C. Garber, Chief
                    Quartermaster in the Field of the Army of the 
                        Mississippi
                     (Sherman's army) during the March through the Carolinas. He is probably one of
                    the few now surviving who were close to General Sherman and an eye witness of the capture and
                    destruction of 
                        Columbia
                    .
            On the morning of February 17, 1865, we were in bivouac at Congaree Creek, where the fight had
                    occurred the afternoon before. It was the morning of the most eventful day of the great March
                    through the Carolinas. After breakfast we mounted our horses and rode into Camp Sorghum, which was
                    very near our camp. It was a prison for Union officers. Second growth small timber covered the
                    ground sparsely. Huts of the rudest description had been 
                    constructed of the forest trees by our men and daubed with mud. They were simply roofs to keep off
                    the rain. No floors, windows or doors. Like a tent fly they were open in front. The prisoners had
                    been removed the day before but a few had burrowed in the earth and been covered with dirt by their
                    comrades, and thus remained until the sound of Yankee voices served as Gabriel's horn to
                    resurrect them.
            Seventeen hundred officers had been confined here and in 
                        Columbia
                     immediately before our arrival. General Sherman's staff was scattered that
                    morning and did not ride out together with the cavalry escort. Moving alone along the State road,
                    which, with the river front opposite 
                        Columbia
                    , was held by our troops, I saw the beautiful city, so full of interest to the
                    triumphant and magnificent army of 62,000 men—the army of which Gen. Joseph E. Johnston,
                    C. S. A., wrote:
            "I made up my mind that there had been no such army since the days of Julius
                    Caesar."
            The piers of the big bridge over the Congaree river were standing but no trace was left of the wood
                    work, which was burned the day before. Upon the level plain leading to the bridge a large number of
                    Union soldiers were standing, looking at the city, and the occasional Confederate soldiers to be
                    seen crossing the streets at right angles with the river. Amongst our soldiers I soon perceived
                    Uncle Billie on foot, walking amongst the boys. I overheard him talking familiarly to them. He asked
                    about their socks and shoes; if their feet were in good condition; if they had plenty to eat and
                    were well.
            As was generally the case the General had an unlighted cigar in his mouth. One soldier remarked:
                    "That's the same cigar he had at 
                        Atlanta
                    ." Another, observing me, trailing after the General, jerked out, with a
                    significant nod: "There's too d—d much infantry in
                    this army."
            Turning away from the laughs that greeted this sally of wit at my expense, I rode my horse to the
                    river to let him drink. He had no sooner buried his nose in the Congaree than Captain De
                    Gres's battery upon the bank above discharged a twenty-pound Parrott gun and the animal
                    leaped in the air. Fortunately I was able to hold my seat but I couldn't persuade the horse
                    to drink after that.
            Occasional shells were directed at the trains running supplies needed by our army out of 
                        Columbia
                     right under our eyes. While  no shots were fired
                    from 
                        Columbia
                     at Sherman's army at this point, the Confederate batteries shelled our camps
                    and wagon trains on the night of the 16th—thereby making legitimate our return fire. It
                    was not indiscriminate, however, being confined to the railroad trains. No person was killed or
                    wounded by it.
            I next rode along the river bank several miles to a cotton mill, in front of which a pontoon bridge
                    was being laid. Here I found the Generals Sherman and Howard and staffs.
            General Sherman stood amongst his officers, and as we saw the Mayor of 
                        Columbia
                     come out in a carriage and surrender the city to our skirmish line, said:
            "It is no small thing to march into the heart of the enemy's country and take his
                    capital."
            This was uttered without boastfulness but with deep and evident satisfaction.
            Generals Sherman and Howard, accompanied by their respective staffs and escorts, immediately crossed
                    the two smaller rivers, the Saluda and Broad, which united form the Congaree river, and after a
                    short ride entered 
                        Columbia
                    .
            In the center of the principal business street bales of cotton had been placed by the Confederates.
                    When we passed them they were open and fire was burning deep down in their depths. One old fashioned
                    fire engine in which the water was pumped by hand power and forced through the hose, was visible,
                    which apparently had been operated by soldiers and negroes, who ceased their labor while the
                    procession passed by.
            A high wind was blowing and the cotton was torn loose and scattered amongst the branches of trees,
                    where it hung in festoons and occasioned general comment as looking like big flakes in a snow storm.
            The street was full of soldiers. Amongst them were many escaped Union prisoners, whose ragged clothes
                    exposed the bare skin in places, and rags and skin and the men all over were one hue—a
                    dirty dust color. I had never seen any human beings look so before, and I have never since, for that
                    matter. These men had not washed, it was evident, during their confinement. They had hidden in the
                    prison shacks or burrowed in the earth and been covered by comrades with dirt, when the exodus began
                    to escape our army. Some of our men, thus attempting to regain their liberty, perished when the
                    guards burned the prisons.
            
            These survivors were frantic with joy over their escape and shouted plaudits to Sherman.
                    "Greater than Napoleon," I recollect one fellow kept saying, "Greater
                    than Caesar or Hannibal."
            The negroes, too, were rapturous. Major George Ward Nichols, in his "Story of the Great
                    March," records one ejaculating: "Tank tie Almighty God, Mister
                    Sherman has come at fast. We knew it; we prayed for de day, and de Lord Jesus
                    heerd our prayers. Mr. Sherman has come wid his company."
            One fat old mammy embarrassed me very much but afforded amusement to the staff officers by
                    exclaiming: "Bress Gawd, see the purty little Yankee."
            I do not recollect seeing any of the white citizens of 
                        Columbia
                     during Sherman's triumphal entry, although some of the colored people were so
                    white I could not tell to which race they belonged.
            Colonel Garber, as Chief Quartermaster, had orders from the general commanding to hunt up and secure
                    valuable machinery, stores and supplies, and take charge of all captured property. He immediately
                    entered upon that duty and I being left foot-loose walked back to look at the new state house and
                    see what was going on.
            This time I did see white citizens, for some stood at their front doors and offered liquor of various
                    kinds to passers-by. I took none, but the soldiers did, and also broke into saloons and liquor
                    houses to get it. There was wholesale looting of the stores going on. I entered but one, a hardware
                    store, thinking I could get a pocket knife, but they were all gone. This store was being robbed by
                    low whites and negroes of 
                        Columbia
                    . They quarreled and as there were no soldiers in there at the time I was afraid and
                    left.
            I saw drunken Union soldiers lying asleep in stores, overcome with liquors, and I have no doubt a
                    number of them were burned to death in the great conflagration of the night.
            Major S. H. M. Byers, one of the Federal officers imprisoned in 
                        Columbia
                    , and who concealed himself and escaped, in his army reminiscenses, records a report
                    "that an explosion occurred in one house and that twenty-four soldiers, carousing there,
                    were lost in the ruins."
            My first recollection of the fire was of being awakened by my father and getting out of my
                    comfortable bed reluctantly. The entire city seemed to be burning and the flames appeared to reach
                    to the zenith. General Sherman and his entire staff, including my  father, were up and at work the rest of the night, protecting the citizens and giving them
                    assistance. Wood's division had first occupied the town and Hazen's was ordered
                    in. Troops traversed all the streets, company front, reaching from wall to wall or fence to fence,
                    and arrested every soldier not in a regular command under an officer. Many soldiers were drunk, some
                    were violent and a few criminal. Major 
                        Dayton
                    , of General Sherman's Staff, and later of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , shot one of our soldiers for attempting to assault a woman. Two men were killed,
                    thirty wounded and 370 arrested during the cleaning-up. Very few crimes were committed against
                    women.
            Colonel Garber in his diary of the March says:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "The fire was terrible, the scenes too horrible to describe. Large
                                    quantities of whisky were found, which the men drank to an alarming extent. My
                                    estimate is that forty blocks were burned. So much for giving soldiers liquor.
                        "The large and valuable stores which I had secured were destroyed, to the
                                    great loss and detriment of the government."
                     
                  
               
                
            The sack of the stores and the burning of the best portion of the city of 
                        Columbia
                     is not to the credit of the Federal arms. Doubtless most of those who justified it at
                    the time, when the passions of civil strife were raging, would condemn it now were they alive.
            I have in my possession, through the courtesy of General Wade Hampton, a copy of his "Letter
                    of June 24, 1873, with Appendix," and the "Report of Committee of Citizens of 
                        Columbia
                    , May, 1866," upon the subject.
            The pamphlet is a terrible indictment of General Sherman and his army. If read alone, or by those not
                    witnesses of the occurrences, it would appear convincing—irrefutable.
            But this pamphlet, and similar charges wherever and by whomsoever made, are not true and just.
                    General Sherman did not intend to destroy 
                        Columbia
                    . Had he felt it was a military necessity he would have burned the city in broad
                    daylight, as he did 
                        Atlanta
                    , and acknowledged it. The General's orders for the government of the troops
                    while occupying 
                        Columbia
                    , dated February 16, 1865, were in these words; page 277, General Order No. 26: 
                        "General Howard will cross the Saluda and Broad rivers as near their mouths as
                            possible, occupy 
                                Columbia
                            , destroying the public buildings, railroad property, manufacturing and machine
                            shops; but will spare libraries,  asylums and private
                            dwellings. He will then move to Winnsboro, destroying, en route, utterly that section of the
                            railroad. He will also cause all bridges, trestles, water tanks and depots on the railroad
                            back to the Wateree to be burned, switches broken, and such other destruction as he can find
                            time to accomplish consistent with proper celerity."
                    
            
            If any Federal officer is responsible for the loot and burning of 
                        Columbia
                    , then, it is Gen. O. O. Howard, who was in immediate command, and whose orders forbade
                    such destruction.
            General Howard, above all the Federal generals, was distinguished for humanitarian impulses and
                    religious convictions. It is impossible to believe he burned 
                        Columbia
                     or connived at it. How then was 
                        Columbia
                     burned? As a result of several unfortunate, coincident conditions, with an attendant
                    division of responsibility. The high wind, the street full of cotton and its ignition, the absence
                    of any fire department worthy of the name, the predominance of framed houses, the failure of the
                    Confederate and also the Federal authorities to seize intoxicants, the hatred of 
                        South Carolina
                     by all the Union soldiers as the author of secession, and last, but not least, the
                    thirst of the escaped Union prisoners and local convicts for revenge.
            Could you have seen those Union prisoners and heard their stories of needless cruelty and humiliation
                    you could comprehend their frenzy, to avenge themselves and their comrades.
            
               
                        Columbia
                     was the victim of the mistakes of the Confederates, the insufficient precautions of
                    Mayor Goodwin and Generals Hampton and Howard, the rage and passion for plunder of soldiers of both
                    armies, convicts, the lowest of the populace, and the vengeance of the Union soldiers. It was a
                    deplorable and frightful crime but General William T. Sherman is not guilty as charged.
            Col. G. A. Stone's brigade, which first occupied the city, was composed of 
                        Iowa
                     regiments.
            The Fifteenth Corps, commanded by Gen. John A. Logan, to which this brigade belonged, were as fine
                    troops as ever lived. The Fifteenth and Seventeenth corps constituted the Army of the 
                        Tennessee
                    , of which General Grant said: 
                        "As an army it never sustained a single defeat during four years of war; every
                            fortification which it assailed surrendered; every force arrayed against it was either
                            defeated, captured or destroyed. No officer was ever assigned to the command of that army
                            who had afterward to be relieved from duty or reduced to a lesser command. Such a history is
                            not by accident"
                    
            
            
            Another writer has said: 
                        "It numbers among its distinguished dead, Grant, Sherman, McPherson, Logan, McCook,
                            Blair, Pope, Gresham, Hazen, and a host of others, whose names during the war were as
                            familiar as household words.
                        "Marching over six thousand miles, it hewed its way through the very heart of the
                            Confederacy, unfurled its victorious banners in the capitals of six Confederate states; and
                            finally waved them in triumph over the birthplace of secession.
                        "It was the only Northern army whose commander was killed in battle, and the only
                            one that never sustained a defeat."
                    
            
            It is inconceivable that a body of men with such a record should be deficient in morale and
                    discipline. The army as a mass was not guilty. The crimes were committed by individuals, and
                    compared to the thousands with whom they were mingled, but few in number.
            During General Sherman's stay in 
                        Columbia
                     he was constantly engaged in errands of courtesy and labors of mercy. He vacated the
                    headquarters (the Blanton Duncan House) of his staff to admit women refugees from the disaster.
            After the fire the local mills were occupied by the Union troops and flour and corn meal ground for
                    the destitute citizens. When the army left the city these mills were spared and turned over, with
                    quantities of grain, and 500 beeves to the municipal authorities; also 100 muskets and ammunition
                    for their protection.
            That General Sherman was opposed to plundering and burning private residences is evident from Special
                    Field Orders number 119 and 120, dated respectively November 8 and 9, 1864. Foraging is restricted
                    to parties under commissioned officers. "Soldiers must not enter the dwellings of the
                    inhabitants, or commit any trespass," etc. "To corps commanders alone is intrusted
                    the power to destroy mills, houses, cotton-gins," etc.
            A few days out from 
                        Atlanta
                     on the March to the Sea, General Sherman interpreted these orders, as he narrates in
                    his Memoirs, as follows: 
                        "It was at this very plantation that a soldier passed me with a ham on his musket, a
                            jug of sorghum molasses under his arm, and a big piece of honey in his hand, from which he
                            was eating, and, catching my eye, he remarked sotto voice and carelessly to a comrade,
                            'Forage liberally on the country,' quoting from my general orders. On this
                            occasion, as on many others that fell under my personal observation, I reproved the man,
                            explained that foraging must be limited to the regular parties properly detailed, and that
                            all provisions thus obtained must be delivered to the 
                            regular commissaries, to be fairly distributed to the men who kept their
                        ranks."
                    
            
            General Sherman always held General Hampton and the civil authorities of
                    
                        Columbia
                     responsible for the city's destruction. He censured General Hampton for
                    ordering the cotton taken out of the warehouses and piled in the street. Why was this done if it was
                    not preparatory to burning it?
            General Hampton, in the pamphlet mentioned, "Burning of 
                        Columbia
                    ," admits that the cotton was by him, under direction from General Beauregard,
                    ordered placed in vacant fields or lots to be burned, and that transportation being insufficient, it
                    was placed in the street by the Confederate post commander, Major Allen J. Green. Subsequently,
                    under direction of General Beauregard, Gen. Hampton had Capt. Rawlin Lowndes, A. A. G. issue an
                    order that no cotton be burned.
            General Sherman attributed the burning of the city also to the failure of the civil and military
                    authorities of the Confederacy to destroy the large supplies of liquor before his army entered it.
            General Sherman utters something by way of explanation, if not apology, for the destructiveness of
                    his army on page 254 of his Memoirs, as follows: 
                        "Somehow, our men had gotten the idea that 
                                South Carolina
                             was the cause of all our troubles; her people were the first to fire on Fort
                            Sumter, had been in a great hurry to precipitate our country into civil war; and therefore
                            on them should fall the scourge of the war in its worst form. Taunting messages had also
                            come to us, when in 
                                 Georgia 
                            , to the effect that, when we should reach 
                                South Carolina
                            , we would find a people less passive, who would fight us to the bitter end,
                            daring us to come over, etc.; so that I saw and felt that we would be unable longer to
                            restrain our men as we had done in 
                                 Georgia 
                            .
                        "Personally I had many friends in 
                                Charleston
                            , to whom I would gladly have extended protection and mercy, but they were
                            beyond my personal reach, and I would not restrain the army lest its vigor and energy should
                            be impaired; and I had every reason to expect bold and strong resistance at the many broad
                            and deep rivers that lay across our path."
                    
            
            The first 
                        United States
                     troops to enter 
                        Columbia
                     were Colonel Stone's brigade, first division, 15th army corps, composed of 
                        Iowa
                     regiments. Colonel Stone is therefore the best witness available as to conditions in
                    the city when surrendered, and what occurred during the domination of the lawless elements.
            
            In his report dated February 19, 1865, Colonel Stone says: 
                        "We had arrived within about a mile of the city, when a carriage displaying a flag
                            of truce approached containing Mr. Goodwin, mayor of 
                                Columbia
                            , and the city aldermen, who came to offer terms of capitulation. I refused
                            anything but an unconditional surrender, which, after a few words, he consented to and
                            unconditionally surrendered the city of 
                                Columbia
                            . I joined the party in the carriage, accompanied by Major Anderson, of the
                            Fourth 
                                Iowa
                            , and Captain Pratt, of General Logan's staff, and left the brigade
                            under the temporary charge of Lieutenant-Colonel Jenkins, Thirty-first 
                                Iowa
                            , and preceded the column about half a mile. When near the suburbs of the city I
                            noticed some of the advanced skirmishers, say about fifteen in number, being driven back by
                            apparently a battalion of rebel cavalry. I at once called a corporal and three men, who
                            happened to be near me, and put the major and aldermen in the corporal's charge,
                            and with Major Anderson took about forty of my flankers and advanced on the cavalry. The
                            corporal was instructed that in case one man was killed or wounded, he should at once shoot
                            the mayor and his party. Joining the retreating skirmishers with the forty flankers we
                            speedily dispersed the rebel cavalry, having no more trouble in gaining the city. I
                            proceeded to the state house with Captain Pratt and planted the first U. S. flag on that
                            building.
                        "I was absent from the brigade about an hour in placing the flag on the state house,
                            and when I rejoined my command found a great number of the men drunk. It was discovered that
                            this was caused by hundreds of negroes who swarmed the streets on the approach of the troops
                            and gave them all kinds of liquors from buckets, bottles, demijohns, etc. The men had slept
                            none the night before, and but little the night before that, and many of them had no supper
                            the night before, and none of them breakfast that morning, hence the speedy effect of the
                            liquor. I forthwith ordered all the liquor destroyed, and saw fifteen barrels destroyed
                            within five minutes after the order had been given.
                        "Brevet Major-General Woods now sent me word to guard the private property of the
                            citizens and take possession of all the public buildings. I did so immediately upon receipt
                            of the order, distributing my five regiments throughout the city and appointing
                            Lieutenant-Colonel Jenkins, Thirty-first 
                                Iowa
                            , provost-marshal. A number of buildings were fired during the early part of the
                            evening, but the fire was promptly put out before it had gained much headway. A great many
                            drunken men were now showing themselves in the streets from, I should think, every regiment
                            of our corps, the Seventeenth Corps, and some even from General Kilpatrick's
                            cavalry. My command was so scattered throughout the city that I found it necessary to have a
                            stronger guard, and therefore applied through my acting assistant adjutant-general to Brevet
                            Major-General Woods twice, once in writing, for one or two more regiments for patrolling the
                            city, but received no reinforcements. About eight o'clock the city was fired in a
                            number of places by some of our escaped prisoners and citizens (I am satisfied I can prove
                            this), and some of the fire having originated in basements stored  full of cotton, it was impossible to extinguish it. The fire
                            engines were ordered out, but the flames could not be stopped; the buildings were old,
                            nearly all wooden ones, and the wind blowing almost a gale. At 8 p. m. I received orders
                            that I was to be relieved by Brevet Brigadier-General Woods and I sent the brigade to camp
                            about one mile out of town, but remained in the city myself, working all night to assist in
                            extinguishing the fire."
                    
            
            The troops which relieved Colonel Stone were the First Brigade, First Division, 15th Army Corps,
                    commanded by Brevet Brigadier General William B. Woods. The Twelfth Indiana, Colonel Reuben
                    Williams, was one of the regiments. The Second Brigade of the same division was also summoned. It
                    was commanded by an Indiana man, Col. Robert F. Catterson. In this force were the 97th and 100th
                    Indiana Infantry, under the commands of Lt. Col. Aden G. Cavins and Major Ruel M. Johnson
                    respectively.
            The Second Division of the same corps was also ordered into the city. In its Second Brigade was the
                    83rd Indiana commanded by Captain Charles W. White. In the Third Brigade was the 99th Indiana,
                    Captain Josiah Farrar. All these regiments were infantry. Indiana thus furnished five of the
                    regiments which maintained discipline and restored order.
            The official reports made at the time by Generals William B. Woods, Charles R. Woods, William B.
                    Hazen, John A. Logan, Oliver O. Howard and William T. Sherman, all of whom were in the city, confirm
                    Colonel Stone in his observations and conclusions, and all agree in mentioning liquor as the primary
                    cause of the conflagration.
            Brevet Major-General C. R. Woods also attributes the origin of the fire to "Villains freed
                    from the town prison."
            Brevet Brigadier General W. B. Woods declares: "I am satisfied by the statements made to me
                    by respectable citizens of the town that the fire was first set by the negro inhabitants."
            Major General O. O. Howard reported the fire was caused by liquor "given escaped prisoners,
                    convicts from the penitentiary just broken open, army followers and drunken soldiers."
            Major General Logan, in his report, said, "the citizens had received our soldiers with
                    bucketfuls of liquor * * * and for awhile all control was lost over
                    the disorganized mass."
            Major General Henry W. Slocum, in his article on "Sherman's March from Savannah to
                    Bentonville," in Battles and Leaders of the Civil War, written in 1884,
                    remarks:
            
            
                    "I do not believe General Sherman countenanced or was In any degree responsible for It.
                        I believe the immediate cause of the disaster was a free use of whisky, which was supplied to
                        the soldiers by the citizens with great liberality."
                
            The officers of the army of the 
                        United States
                    , if betrayed upon this one occasion, had no disposition to suffer a repetition of the
                    calamity, and upon the next day, February 13th, Maj.-Gen. O. O. Howard, issued Special Field Order
                    Number 42, from which the annexed paragraph is quoted: 
                        "It having been brought to the attention of the commanding general that certain
                            lawless and evil-disposed soldiers of this command have threatened to destroy the remainder
                            of this city with Are, it is ordered that all commanding officers and provost-marshals use
                            the utmost vigilance by establishing sufficient guards and patrols to prevent at all cost,
                            even to the taking the life of any refractory soldier, a recurrence of the horrors of last
                            night. Maj. Gen. F. P. Blair, commanding the Seventeenth Army Corps, will assign an officer
                            to command of that part of the city northeast of Taylor street. To Brevet Brigadier-General
                            W. B. Woods is assigned the command of that portion of the city southeast of Taylor street.
                            They will appoint provost-marshals, who will be authorized to call upon the corps commander
                            for sufficient force to prevent burning, pillaging, and all other acts subversive of good
                            order and military discipline."
                    
            
            Before dismissing the question of the guilt for the burning of 
                        Columbia
                     it should be recalled that enormous and devastating conflagrations occurred in
                            
                  Charleston, South
                            Carolina
               , and 
                  Richmond, Virginia
               , during
                    their evacuation by Confederate troops and before a hated Yankee had entered their corporation
                    lines. If the Confederate troops or citizens thus burned two of their own principal cities why not a
                    third?
            Moreover, it is well known the Confederate people were often robbed and burned out by their own
                    lawless troops. The identical cavalry under Hampton, which were the last Confederates to leave the
                    unfortunate city of 
                        Columbia
                    , were under charges of misconduct preferred by Southern citizens.
            The following document from Official Records, Series I, Volume XLVII, page 1203, is
                    to the point: 
                        "Adjutant and Inspector General's Office, "
                        Richmond, Virginia
                     , February 16, 1865.
                        "Col. E. E. Portlock, Assistant Inspector-General:
                        "Colonel—Representations have been made from so many quarters prejudicial
                            to the character of Wheeler's cavalry as to make it desirable  that an examination should be made respecting their foundation,
                            as, if true, they are calculated (as they have been said to have done) to produce
                            disaffection amongst the people and to bring reproach upon our arms. Of course the remarks
                            and instructions are confidential, your order for the inspection being sufficient to secure
                            you the necessary facilities. "I am, colonel, respectfully, your obedient
                        servant,
                    
            
            "E. H. CHILTON, "Assistant Adjutant and Inspector General."
            In a pamphlet entitled The Sack and Destruction of 
                            Columbia
                        
               , William Gilmore Simms, a citizen of 
                        Columbia
                    , and in the city at the time of the fire, states on the night of February 15 (before
                    Sherman's army reached the city) there was riotous conduct, a number of highway robberies,
                    and stores were broken open and robbed.
            
                    "The stores of merchants and planters, trunks of treasure, wares and goods of fugitives
                        were so recklessly plundered that a fire broke out at the 
                            South Carolina
                         railroad depot." (Simms.)
                
            Major Chamblis, of the Confederate army, wrote: 
                        "The straggling cavalry and rabble were stripping the warehouses and railroad
                            depots. The city was in the wildest terror."
                    
            
            The 
                        Richmond
                     (Va.) Whig of March 7, 1865, printed a letter from a correspondent
                    saying: 
                        
                            
                        
                           
                              "A party of Wheeler's cavalry, accompanied by their
                                            officers, dashed into town (February 16), tied their horses and as
                                            systematically as if they had been bred to the business, proceeded to break
                                            into stores along Main street and rob them of their contents."
                           
                        
                     
                        
                    
            
            All these outrages, pillagings and fires, mark you, were perpetrated by Confederate soldiers and
                    citizens before a single Yankee had entered the city.
            Returning now to 
                        Columbia
                     when the Union soldiers entered it.
            Inasmuch as the cotton bales were placed in the streets to be burned by order of General Beauregard,
                    and considering the character of General Wheeler's cavalry as above portrayed, why is not
                    the testimony of the Union generals and officials credible, to the effect that the cotton was
                    burning when they entered the city, and doubtless set afire by the retreating Confederates? It will
                    also be recalled these troops violated the rules of civilized warfare by resisting the advance of
                    Colonel Stone, after, the surrender of the city by the Mayor.
            Finally, James Ford Rhodes, in his History of the 
                            United States
                        
               , 1850 to 1877, remarks:
            
            
                    "The members of the British and American Mixed Commission (an Englishman, an American
                        and the Italian minister at 
                            Washington
                        ) having to adjudicate on claims for 'property alleged to have been
                        destroyed by the burning of 
                            Columbia
                        , on the allegation that that city was wantonly fired by the army of General Sherman
                        either under his orders or with his consent and permission,' disallowed all the claims,
                        'all the commissioners agreeing.' While they were not called upon to deliver a
                        formal opinion in the case, the American agent was advised 'that the commissioners were
                        unanimous in the conclusion that the conflagration which destroyed 
                            Columbia
                         was not to be ascribed to either the intention or default of either the Federal or
                        Confederate officers.'"
                
            
               
                        Columbia
                     had a population of 8,000 people, the majority of whom were negroes. But the town was
                    rich, full of refugees and their choicest possessions.
            Eighty-four of the 124 blocks of the city, containing over 500 buildings and embracing the entire
                    business quarter, were burned. The old state house, containing the legislative library of 25,000
                    volumes, five churches, the Ursuline convent, and the railroad depots were consumed.
            The library and collection of paintings, engravings, Southern fossils, sharks' teeth, relics
                    of aboriginal 
                        Mexico
                     and the 
                        United States
                    , historical documents of the Revolution, of the antiquarian and naturalist, Dr. Gibbes,
                    were also destroyed.
            Amongst the property destroyed by order of General Sherman after the fire were: quartermaster stores,
                    printing and engraving departments, 25 powder mills, machine shops, and armory of the Confederate
                    government. Nineteen locomotives—box cars, 1,000 bales of cotton, and all railroad
                    buildings. Smoke stacks of factories were thrown over.
            I learn from Hon. L. A. Griffith, Mayor of 
                        Columbia
                    , that he is unable to find that any estimate was ever made of the aggregate losses. I
                    should think five million dollars a fair estimate of the losses, public and private.
            It is highly gratifying to me, a witness of 
                        Columbia
                    's destruction, to know that a modern, growing and prosperous city has risen
                    from the ashes of the burned town.
            The 
                        Columbia
                     of 1915 is unsurpassed in location, advantages of every description, and
                    progressiveness by any municipality in the country. Its population is seven times greater than in
                    1865. I am sure every surviving member of Sherman's army wishes it and its people every
                    blessing and happiness.
            
            ADDENDA
            
            From the General Sherman wrongfully described as a ruthless destroyer let us turn to an unconscious
                    revelation of his heart of sympathy and kindness, shown in orders he need not have written, and in
                    care of men of heroic mould who knew him affectionately as Uncle Billie.
            
                    
                        
                     
                        
                           "Headquarters Military Division of the 
                                            Mississippi
                                        , "In the Field, on the Raleigh Road, March 15, 1865, 12 M.
                                        (Received at 7 P. M.)
                           "Captain Keyser, V. S. Steamer Eolus, Fayetteville:
                           "Captain—I have no doubt, also, that a good many of our sick
                                        and footsore men will hang about the landing; they must not be allowed to
                                        suffer, though their officers should not have provided for them. If you find any
                                        such clinging about the landing, have them camp near your boat on this bank, and
                                        send word to General Dodge, chief quartermaster, to send a boat for them. If
                                        Colonel Garber, my chief quartermaster, is there. show him this letter, and he
                                        will attend to the details referred to in the last part of this letter, but if
                                        Colonel Garber is not there, I have no other alternative but to ask your kind
                                        assistance.
                           "Yours truly, "W. T. SHERMAN,
                                        Major-General."
                        
                     
                  
                    
                
            Wade Hampton was the idol of the slave holding aristocracy of the South. His grandfather was a
                    soldier of the Revolution under Sumter and 
                        Marion
                     and rose to the rank of major-general in the war of 1&12. He became immensely
                    wealthy in land speculations and owned 3,000 slaves. The estate thus inherited by Wade Hampton of
                    the Civil War period and his social status rendered him one of the acknowledged leaders of the
                    Southern people. He was a brave soldier and was wounded three times in battle. He was a politician
                    and led the white people of 
                        South Carolina
                     in overthrowing the State government instituted in the process of reconstruction. Later
                    he was a 
                        United States
                     Senator from 
                        South Carolina
                    . Senator Hampton was an orator also and always greatly admired and beloved
                        in the South.
            
            Colonel Michael C. Garber, Chief Quartermaster in the Field of the Military District of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , as will be noted, was in charge of all property seized for the 
                        United States
                     government in 
                        Columbia
                    . Colonel Garber went into the 
                        United States
                     army from Indiana but was a native of 
                        Virginia
                    . He participated in the campaigns of Mill Spring, 
                        Cumberland
                     Gap, Vicksburg, 
                        Texas
                    , Red River, 
                        Atlanta
                     and Sherman's March. He was continued in the  service after the war as Chief Quartermaster of the Department of 
                        North Carolina
                    , and was tendered the position of Assistant Quartermaster in the Regular Army but
                    preferred civil life.
            
                    "This responsible labor is under the charge of Colonel Garber, a gentleman of large
                        heart and fertile brain, who has acted as chief quartermaster for the army during this
                            campaign."—MAJOR GEOBGE WARD NICHOLS, in The Story of the Great March.
               
                    "I at once appointed General Reuben Williams, Twelfth Indiana Infantry, provost-marshal
                        of the post (
                            Columbia
                        ) and by means of his efficiency and energy, and that of the officers and men under
                        my command, was enabled to preserve comparative quiet and good order in the city while occupied
                        by our army."—BREVET BRIGADIER-GENERAL WILLIAM B. WOODS, in official report dated Near Goldsborough, N. C, March 26, 1865.
                
            General Williams was an Indiana newspaper man, founder and editor of the Northern
                        Indianian, published at 
                        Warsaw
                    . He was trusted by Sherman and Howard and was sent on a raid with mounted infantry to
                    release, if possible, 20,000 Union prisoners held at Florence, near 
                        Columbia
                    .
         
         
         
            The Election of 1852 in Indiana
            
                    
                  BY DALE BEELER, Indiana University
                
            I. INTRODUCTION
            
            The campaign and election, both national and State, in 1852 seemed most uneventful and almost wholly
                    lacking in popular interest. There was no indication that the day was near at hand when there would
                    flame up once more for a final struggle all the latent fury and hatred born of intersectional
                    strife. This brief period of political warfare, 1852, is then worthy of more than the passing note
                    which historians generally accord it. The sharp engagements, those political skirmishes which
                    occurred between the forces of the parties back in the States, as in our own State of Indiana, and
                    the newspaper warfare conducted by the press of each party, all suggest the desirability of a more
                    detailed account than has been given in the past. In order to bring about a clearer understanding
                    and a better knowledge of the political events and times of 1852, and immediately following, it will
                    be necessary in this account to review the period of the preceding four years. In doing this I shall
                    use press quotations freely in view of the fact that the newspapers of that time are the chief
                    sources of this brief history.
            The issue of the campaign of 1852 was in truth a heritage from the preceding administration, or
                    rather, this was a campaign without any issue other than that of keeping out of politics the only
                    question really before the public, Slavery and the Compromise of 1850. Both Whigs and Democrats
                    desired that question to be considered as settled. It was a bitter and nauseating dose for the
                    northern Whigs, but they took their medicine, even if it did contain the potion which was soon to
                    prove fatal to their party. The Wilmot Proviso, the Omnibus Bill, and the Compromise of 1850 struck
                    the Free Soil people in Indiana particularly hard, and the battle in 1850 had raged over Indiana
                    with unusual energy and vigor. Partisan conflicts, during the time while the Compromise was
                    agitating the public, were frequent and bitterly fought. No wonder, then, that when it seemed over,
                    people showed relief. Men would condemn their own partisans for re-opening the agitation; and those
                    of one  party applauded those of another when they sought to
                    secure the "finality" of the adjustment. In 1850, during the heat of the campaign,
                    when it seemed that neighbors were ready to spring at each other's throat, Governor Wright,
                    an Indiana Democrat, invited Governor Crittenden, a 
                        Kentucky
                     Whig, to visit him, and they stood on the capital lawn at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , with arms locked and hands entwined, Governor Wright solemnly declaring that he
                    "knew no North, no South, nothing but the common brotherhood of all working for the common
                    good." The press, far and wide, alluded to this noble example of the two western governors,
                    of different party beliefs, as one which showed the general sentiments. If Governor Wright did not
                    know any North, or South, there were many Whigs who did, though they were keeping quiet.
            Soon after the Compromise measures were disposed of, the party organs began to cast about for
                    presidential candidates who might be trusted to maintain the intent and purpose of the adjustment.
                    Early in 1851 the Indiana State Journal, the Whig State organ, declared for Gen.
                    Winfield Scott, the Great Pacificator by the use of the sword, as a man whose patriotism and
                    integrity were unquestionable. He was doubly worthy in that like Taylor he was a military man. The
                    Whigs lacked foresight enough to see that war-record candidates can not always win. An outspoken
                    man, one who would declare himself unequivocally opposed to further agitation of the Slavery issue,
                    was the kind the country wanted. Even the State Journal recognized the fact that
                    the man and not the issues would play the greater part in the campaign of 1852.1
                    Evidence of the lack of popular interest in political issues is found in the Journal's opinion as expressed a few days before the State election of 1851, that
                    at "no time in the State since 1840 has so little interest been felt in relation to a
                    general election as at the present time. A light vote may be expected."2
            
            By the latter part of 1851, the Free Soilers, usually called Free Democrats, were found intermixed
                    with the Democrats, supporting Democratic candidates in some instances. The Whig papers of the State
                    called the Democratic a party of Abolitionists and Secessionists, combining the extremists of the
                    Giddings and Jeff Davis types. In the fall elections of this year the reunited Democracy was
                    successful generally over the Whigs, who ascribed their defeat to the 
                  
                     1
                            Woodrow Wilson, A History of the American People, Vol. 4, pp. 156-57.
                  
                     2
                            Indiana State Journal, July 22, 1851.
               
                     State issues and likened their apparent loss of popular favor
                    to that of 1839 when they were also beaten in the fall elections, but successful in the following
                    year in the National contest.
            Toward the close of 1851, the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier and the Indiana State Sentinel, both Democratic papers,
                    declared that they would support only sound and consistent Democrats as their nominees, men opposed
                    to further agitation of the slavery question, in favor of the Compromise measures, including the
                    Fugitive Slave Law. The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier declared for General Joseph Lane, of Indiana, for President, but said it
                    would not support his too liberal views on the Fugitive Slave Law.3
            
            II. SIDE ISSUES
            
            Since it seemed to be the universal desire of all citizens to avoid all comment of any kind on the
                    slavery question, there had to be other interests for them to discuss. The greatest of these side
                    issues or interests which helped to allay the heat caused by intersectional dispute, was the cause
                    of the freedom of 
                         Hungary 
                     as presented by the Hungarian patriot, Kossuth, who traversed the country in the early
                    part of 1852, visiting on his journey several towns in Indiana. Interest in the cause was widespread
                    in Indiana. The two party organs, especially, the State Journal and the State Sentinel, vied with each other in extending a welcome to the distinguished
                    visitor. Each paper claimed to be the special apostle of Freedom, the Whigs claiming credit for all
                    previous aid to 
                         Hungary 
                     and for Texan Independence. The Sentinel, in a burst of eloquence,
                    answered: "What party is it that dares have the magnanimity to utter the sentiment to the
                    broad world, that 'all men have the right upon their own soil to be free to govern
                    themselves ?' Is it the Whig party ? No. They say we have no right to open our mouths.
                    They, therefore, sympathize with the master who forges upon his serfs the iron collar of slavery.
                    They sympathize with the splendor of the court and the golden drapery of the monarch."4 By the middle of the summer, Kossuth had outstayed his welcome and his ardent
                    followers in Indiana soon fell away from the worthy cause.
            Another issue, more permanent and lasting than the preceding, was the temperance question which was
                    at that time burning hotter than it has at any time subsequently. The agitation spread to the 
                  
                     3
                            Indiana State Journal, Nov. 18, 1851.
                  
                     4
                            Indiana State Journal, March 23, 1852.
               
                     ranks of all political parties. Democrats, Whigs and Free
                    Soilers a like, heaped curses and condemnations on the liquor traffic and its attendant evils. Men
                    by the hundreds were signing temperance pledges, and even Governor Wright himself subscribed to one.
                    Things looked bad for John Barleycorn, and had the slavery question not interposed again soon, he
                    would have shortly gone to perdition. An attempt was made to have the General Assembly enact a "
                         Maine 
                     Liquor Law," but it was not successful. The special election for State senator
                    in 
                        Marion county
                     to fill Nicholas Mc-Carty's vacancy, was fought on the temperance issue.
                    Although defeated, the cause of "no license" polled a good vote. All the liquor
                    shops in 
                        Bloomington
                     had stopped voluntarily, and petitions were being circulated there asking the General
                    Assembly to pass the 
                         Maine 
                     Law. The temperance issue was kept out of the State party platforms because the
                    politicians were opposed to it.
            A silent but powerfully effective force which was making public opinion throughout Indiana and the
                    entire nation, was Mrs. Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin, which came
                    out in the spring of 1852. From the very first, the book enjoyed an unprecedented sale in this
                    State. The effect which the story produced was not visible then, but was clearly evident a few years
                    later.
            The last important factor which tended strongly to draw away public interest from the politics of the
                    time was the extensive construction of railroads and other internal improvements throughout the
                    State. Great numbers of the people were engaged in the work, newspapers commended the work and were
                    full of news concerning the different roads under construction. The State government owned stock in
                    the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railway. The people were too busy building railroad lines to be interested in politics,
                    since, to most, of them, the great political questions were satisfactorily settled.
            III. THE "FINALITY" IN INDIANA
            
            The "finality" of the Compromise measures of 1850, for the accomplishment of which
                    both Whigs and Democrats bent unceasing efforts, was the one big bone of contention throughout the
                    entire campaign of 1852. The supporters of those measures deluded themselves with the idea that they
                    were a "finality," that by them all matters of difference were decided, or would
                    be decided by the principles which they purported to establish. The Democrats  acquiesced quite generally in the so-called settlement and reunited to
                    carry most of the fall elections of 1851. Many of the Whigs bravely tried to accept the adjustment
                    as final, but there were others who could not support them and were left to flounder around without
                    party affiliations until the advent of a new party which would take up their cause.
            The organs of both parties expressed the opinions of their followers on the
                    "finality." The Indiana State Journal, along with several other
                    Whig papers of the State, gave wide prominence to and strong approval of the following statement on
                    "The Finality," published by the 
                        Philadelphia
                    
                    Ledger in answer to a resolution introduced in Congress by Mr. Foote, of 
                        Mississippi
                    . The purpose was to have Congress declare the Compromise measures a final settlement of
                    the slavery question: 
                        "Is there any 'finality' in legislation, as asserted by Mr.
                            Foote's Kesolution in the Senate, on the Compromise Measures Laws? By what
                            authority can a resolution of this Congress bind the people forever—when the
                            Constitution itself does not possess that power? Laws only operate until they are repealed,
                            and the power to repeal laws is always active and alive in the sovereignty of the people.
                            The Constitution being open to amendment or total abolishment, it is manifestly idle to
                            affirm that any law is a 'finality.' Arrest thought, extinguish freedom of
                            opinion, shackle liberty of speech and put down the freedom of the press, by a resolution!
                            No, no, Mr. Foote, the sovereign power of the people has no 'finality.'
                                "5
                  
                    
            
            A few days later, the Democratic Indiana State Sentinel, in reply to the Whig
                    statement that not even the Southern Democrats would agree to the finality, said: 
                        "The efforts of the Whig press to create the impression that the Southern Democracy
                            is not willing to acquiesce in the compromise, and faithfully to execute and maintain its
                            part, may for a time feed their distempered hopes of success through a division of the
                            Democracy, but that is all. In 1852 they will more fully realize the strength of the bond
                            that binds the Democracy in the different sections of our Union together."6
                  
                    
            
            Then the Sentinel offered proof which the State Democratic press soon after gave
                    wide publicity. They quoted the following from the Southern Rights paper, the Savannah Georgian: 
                        "Whatever may have been the feelings of Southern Democrats, when the compromise was
                            first adopted, we say what we know when we affirm that they 'do intend to acquiesce
                            in it.' Those who felt most indignant 
                        
                           5
                                    Indiana State Journal, Jan. 9, 1852.
                        
                           6
                                    Indiana State Sentinel, Jan. 12, 1852.
                     
                             at its passage have yielded to the popular will, and
                            are generally disposed to make the 'adjustment' (if the North will
                            consent) a final settlement of the slavery question. The strongest evidence of their
                            acquiescence is the fact that they are preparing to give their support to the nominee of the 
                                Baltimore
                             convention, though feeling assured that, whether he be Douglas, Buchanan,
                            Marcy, 
                                Butler
                            , King or Cass, he will be opposed to disturbing the
                            'adjustment' which has been made."
                    
            
            Early in February, 1852, the Whigs of 
                        Laporte county
                     held their county convention, and to make known their position on the Compromise
                    measures, they adopted resolutions of this tenor: 
                        "Resolved, That our position remains unchanged; no interference with domestic policy
                            or peculiar institutions of sister states; no extension of slave territory; no diffusion of
                            an institution which it is believed tends to degrade labor and blight industry, over more of
                            the national soil than it now covers; no countenance of Disunion sentiments whether at the
                            North or South; but devotion to our glorious Union in any event, under all circumstances,
                            despite all contingencies. "Resolved, That although we may not agree upon each and
                            every one of the measures passed by the last Congress known as the Compromise Measures, yet
                            we regard them as designed to settle the question specified in them, and that we are of the
                            opinion that this settlement should remain undisturbed until time and experience shall show
                            that a change or modification of them is necessary to avoid evasions or abuse."7
                  
                    
            
            The Laporte Whigs were thus good examples of Finality Whigs who were courageously struggling to
                    support the compromise principles, after having tried to make the work more attractive by adding a
                    few meaningless phrases of their own to the original agreement.
            The effort to have the Compromise Measures recognized as a finality was carried to Congress by
                    several agitators, among them Dr. Graham N. Fitch of the 
                        Lafayette
                     district. The State Journal condemned that gentleman and his work in
                    the following language: 
                        "If it were not for the actions of a few restless politicians, in a very short time
                            there would be nothing said about the slavery questions settled by the last Congress. The
                            people are disposed to let them remain just where they are; but these men are determined to
                            bring them up again. Foote introduced resolutions in the Senate, for the purpose of opening
                            up their agitation, and more recently Dr. Fitch of our own State, followed Foote's
                            example by moving to suspend the rules, to allow him to introduce them in the House. This
                            motion was voted for by such men as Giddings on the one side and the ultra-slavery men on
                            the other side. Nothing could be done to give greater satisfaction to such men than the
                            agitation of these 
                        
                           7
                                    Indiana State Journal, Feb. 17, 1852.
                     
                             questions. They are out of their element when not
                            engaged in these exciting questions. They know very well that without such agitation they
                            would goon lose their seats in Congress, and hence the course pursued by them."8
                  
                    
            
            And here the Journal quotes the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette, which takes a more positive stand on the issue, and after severely
                    arraigning Foote and Fitch, continues thus, boldly: 
                        "Yet these men while they strongly deprecate 'agitation' are all
                            the time agitating as far as in their power. * * * Has not
                            the South got what it asked for? Is not the North submissive and quiet? Where then the
                            necessity for a 'finality?' The thing is preposterous. We want no
                            'declarating' enactments; we want no legislative expressions of
                            'finality;' we want no 'pledge' to others or to
                            ourselves, that our antecedents shall be out succeedents. We abide by 'the
                            compromises of the Constitution;' we abide by the compromises of the National
                            Legislature. But we run into no 'finalities,' merely for the sake of
                            ourselves, and we will be forced into none for the purpose of pleasing our
                            enemies."
                    
            
            These papers voiced the sentiments of great numbers of Whigs who thought the Compromise was bad
                    enough for them to have to swallow without the "finality" for a chaser.
            In the State campaign, no very great importance was given the "finality" question.
                    Only the politicians and newspapers continued to harp on it, while the great mass of voters were
                    satisfied to let the Compromises rest as the finality. Nicholas McCarty, the Whig candidate for
                    governor, in a speech at 
                        Rushville
                     soon after the opening of the campaign, said that although he did not think the
                    Fugitive Slave Law, in its details, what it ought to have been, he thought it should have a fair
                    trial and remain as it was, until time and experience should demonstrate the necessity of a change.
                    He did not want to see the slavery question agitated any longer and he refrained from mentioning the
                    question of "finality."
            On April 5, 1852, in accordance with the desires of politicians in both Whig and Democratic parties,
                    particularly Southern, the House of Representatives by a vote of 101 ayes to 64 noes, adopted the
                    Finality Resolution. The resolution read thus: 
                        "Resolved, That we recognize the binding efficacy of the Compromises of the
                            Constitution—and we believe it to be the determination of the people generally,
                            as we hereby declare it to be ours individually, to abide by such compromises, and to
                            sustain the laws necessary to carry them out—the provision for delivery of
                            fugitive slaves, and the act of the last Congress for that purpose, included; and that we
                            deprecate all further agitation 
                        
                           8
                                    Indiana State Journal, March 13, 1852.
                     
                             of the questions growing out of that act of the last
                            Congress, known as the Compromise Act—and, of questions generally connected with
                            the institution of slavery, as unnecessary, useless and dangerous."
                    
            
            The sectional vote on the Finality Resolution was as follows:
            Yeas—Northern Whigs, 7; Southern Whigs, 20
            Yeas—Northern Democrats, 35; Southern Democrats, 39
            Noes—Northern Whigs, 29; Southern Whigs, 1
            Noes—Northern Democrats, 21; Southern Democrats, 10
            Independents, 3.
            Most of the Indiana delegation being Democrats, the representatives from this State supported the
                    measure. Hon. S. W. Parker, of 
                        Connersville
                    , the Whig representative from the 4th District of Indiana, declared, in a speech in
                    Congress at this time, that he was a compromise man, and expressed his determination to support no
                    man who was not publicly known to be in favor of the compromise measures. He said that he felt
                    confident that the Whig Convention would set the public mind at rest in regard to the subject.
                    Parker was not a finality man and did not hesitate to say he was opposed to caucus actiton on making
                    the "finality" a law.9 The Indiana State
                    Journal gave the Whigs who took part in the finality caucus at 
                        Washington
                    , a "richly deserved and well put on castigation," in the language of
                    one of its exchanges. The Journal said: 
                        "From the frequency with which the compromise is invoked a person might infer that
                            the adjustment is in jeopardy. Nobody expects Congress to disturb it, and if Congress will
                            only let it alone it must be safe. * * * The northern
                            Freesoil Whigs have acquiesced in it and are willing to abide by it, but as it was rather
                            bitter for them to swallow two years ago, they see no reason why they should be called upon
                            to repeat the swallowing process every week or so. If the compromise measures are not
                            irreversible law, we don't see how they can become so. If they do not now
                            constitute a 'finality,' they never will."*10
                  
                    
            
            Further, the Indiana State Journal declared itself in warm accord with the
                    following expression of the 
                        Cleveland
                    
                    Herald and recommended that agitators in the State give it due consideration:11
                    
                        "There is a growing disposition everywhere to let compromise measures stand on their
                            own merits as other enactments do. The idea of affirming by resolution, that which is
                            already the law of the land, is too absurd to 
                        
                           9
                                    Indiana State Journal, May 10, 1852.
                        
                           10
                                    Indiana State Journal, May 4, 1852.
                        
                           11
                                    Indiana State Journal, May 14, 1852.
                     
                             be long entertained by anybody save such demagogues as
                            Foote of 
                                Mississippi
                            , or other Southern agitators who must have footballs to kick for
                            notoriety's sake. We are glad to see the signs of the times strongly indicate that
                            no 'finality' resolution will be entertained in the National Conventions
                            of the Whig or Democratic parties. All sectional issues can and should be avoided. The
                            Democratic State Conventions held in 
                        Virginia, Georgia, Louisiana, Florida, California, Ohio, Michigan
                     , and some
                            other States, when setting forth their principles by resolutions, have been silent on the
                            question of the finality of the Compromise."
                    
            
            About this time the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Democratic Pharos gloried exultingly in the fact that the Democratic State
                    Convention of 
                        Illinois
                     spoke out decidedly in favor of any measure designed to effect more completely the
                    intent and purpose of the compromise measures. The Indiana Democratic State Convention had been held
                    several months previous to the "finality" agitation and consequently was silent on
                    that question. There is every reason to believe that, had the opportunity been afforded, the
                    Democracy of Indiana would have gone to any extremity necessary to show its favor toward the strict
                    maintenance of the principles embodied in the compromise legislation of two years before.
            The presidential candidates were silent on the "finality" question, but there is no
                    ground to believe that General 
                        Franklin
                     Pierce would have opposed such a measure. He was known to be a pro-slavery man, but he
                    kept quiet on the subject, being usually spoken of as "an early friend of the adjustment
                    measures." He stood for "the Compromise Measures of 1850 and the 
                         New Hampshire 
                     Democracy which had fixed its seal of emphatic approbation upon those measures. No
                    North, no South, no East, no West, under the Constitution; but a sacred maintenance of the common
                    bond and true devotion to the common brotherhood." This was his personal platform.12
            
            General Winfield Scott, the Whig presidential candidate, was chosen mainly for the reason that he
                    maintained a non-committal attitude on the slavery question, particularly the compromise measures.
                    He always spoke in a conciliatory manner on the question, but judiciously refrained from openly
                    declaring his position. He spoke several times in this State, yet nothing could be learned regarding
                    his belief upon the great question of the day.13 Back in 1848 he had uttered his
                    last public words on slavery, in a letter which said:
            
               
                  12 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Daily Ledger, June 12, 1852.
               
                  13 J. F. Rhodes, History of the U. S., Vol. I, Chap.
                        Ill, p. 276, Scott in Indiana.
            
            
            
                    "There is, in the order of 
                            Providence
                        , no evil without some compensating benefit. The bleeding African was torn from his
                        savage home by his ferocious neighbors, sold into slavery and cast upon this continent. Here in
                        the mild South, the race has wonderfully multiplied, compared with anything ever known in
                        barbarous life."
                
            This was the last time, previous to the election, and one of very few times in his life, that he
                    expressed his opinion on the subject of slavery. He was not going to be troubled by the compromise
                    measures, or at least not by their "finality."
            Long before the end of the campaign the "finality" question had ceased to be an
                    issue, if it ever was.15 The great majority of the voters looked upon the
                    "finality" as a settled fact, as much as compromise principles, if they were not
                    one and the same thing, with a common end to a common purpose.16
            
            IV. THE STATE CONVENTIONS
            
            The State Conventions of the political parties in Indiana were regarded by the press of the time as
                    the commencement of the campaign. For several months previous to the Democratic State Convention,
                    the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Democratic Pharos had been running in large type, at the head of the political
                    news column, their choice for Governor and President with summarized platform in this style:17
            
            "The Constitution and its Currency. For Governor, Joseph A. Wright; for President, Lewis
                        Cass."17
            
            The Pharos was advocating the Jacksonian hard money, made according to the laws of
                    the Constitution. Wright was at this time governor of the State and a candidate for re-election
                    under the new Constitution which had lately become effective. The Democratic press of the State had
                    no other choice for the nomination.
            The Indiana State Sentinel, generally recognized as the leading Democratic State
                    organ, insisted strongly, previous to the Convention, that the State Convention should endorse the
                    compromise measures. To this, the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Journal answered that it was decidedly opposed to injecting this subject into the
                    creed of the party.18 It declared that: 
                        "By adhering strictly to that great first principle laid down by the fathers of our
                            political creed, of making the contests waged by Democracy 
                        
                           15 Johnson-Woodburn American Political
                                    History, Vol. II, p. 197.
                        
                           16
                                    Constitutional Bistory of U. S., VonHolst, 1850-54, Vol. IV, pp.
                                    136-39.
                        
                           17
                                    
                                        Logansport
                                    
                                    Democratic Pharos, Jan. 21, 1852.
                        
                           18
                                    Indiana State Journal, Feb. 3, 1852.
                     
                             the contests for principles, and not for individuals,
                            we have little to fear from the various combinations that may be brought against
                            her.''
                    
            
            The Democratic State Convention of 1852 met February 24, in the Masonic Hall at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There seemed to be about as much enthusiasm as on previous occasions of the kind, with
                    speech-making and a large attendance which the Whigs, in their reports, greatly belittled, and which
                    the Democrats considerably exaggerated. Mr. Robert Dale Owen proposed Joseph A. Wright as a
                    candidate for re-election and he was given the nomination by acclamation. The convention then
                    adopted resolutions endorsing the compromise measures, notwithstanding the predictions to the
                    contrary of the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier, the Indiana Statesman and other Democratic papers of
                    Free Soil belief. The ticket which the Democrats placed in the field was as follows :19
            
            Governor, Joseph A. Wright, 
                        Parke county
                    ; Lieutenant-Governor, A. P. Willard, 
                        Floyd County
                    ; Secretary of State, Captain Nehemiah Hayden, 
                        Rush county
                    ; Auditor of State, John P. Dunn, 
                        Dearborn county
                    ; Treasurer of State, Dr. Elijah Newland, 
                        Washington county
                    ; for Supreme Court Judges, 1st District, W. Z. Stuart, Cass county; 2d District, Andrew
                    Davison, 
                        Decatur county
                    ; 3d District, Samuel E. Perkins, 
                        Marion county
                    ; 4th District, Addison L. Roache, 
                        Parke county
                    ; Supreme Court Reporter, Horace E. Carter, 
                        Montgomery county
                    ; Clerk of Supreme Court, William B. Beach, 
                        Boone county
                    ; State Superintendent of Public Instruction, William C. Larrabee, 
                        Putnam county
                    .
            A full electoral ticket was nominated, with John Pettit, of 
                        Lafayette
                    , and James H. Lane, of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , as State Electors. Lane was also candidate for Congress in the Fourth District and had
                    as prominent fellow congressional candidates W. H. English, of 
                        Lexington
                    , in the Second District, and Thomas A. Hendricks, of 
                        Shelbyville
                    , in the Sixth (
                        Marion county
                    ) District.
            In the foregoing list of Democratic State nominees will be found the names of most of the leading
                    Democratic politicians of the State at that time. With a few exceptions all of the nominees were
                    from the southern part of the State, south of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Democrats of the northern part of the State had sacrificed their availability as
                    candidates because of their strong Free Soil sentiments. The politicians almost completely ignored
                    the Democrats of the north part of the State in the selection of State candidates. Governor 
                  
                     19
                            Indiana State Sentinel, May 11, 1852.
               
                     Wright was somewhat of a Free Soiler himself, being a leader of
                    the opposition to Senator Jesse Bright and Dr. G. N. Fitch. Mr. Perkins, candidate for judge of the
                    Supreme Court, later became Professor of Law at Indiana University, also an alumnus and trustee. As
                    a whole, the ticket was what in this day would be called a machine made ticket.
            The Whigs, before they held their State Convention, were all silent as to their probable candidate
                    for governor or any State office. Very few of their county conventions endorsed any candidate for
                    any office except General Scott for President. The Whig press also failed to reveal the identity of
                    the man who was to redeem the State from its alleged corruption. The Democratic press frequently
                    remarked that the Whigs would not nominate a gubernatorial candidate because no one wanted the
                    nomination. About a month previous to the Convention, the Indiana State Journal
                    addressed its readers in the following manner: 
                        "The leaders of the Democracy in the city doubt whether the Whigs can get anyone
                            willing to run for governor. The Whigs have it in their power to redeem this State from the
                            hands of those who have been squandering the people's money with utmost
                            recklessness the past six years, and they intend doing so."20
                  
                    
            
            That is only an example of the mock-confidence to which the Whigs were wont to resort during the
                    entire campaign, even up until authentic returns of the election came in. To continue with a better
                    example, the State Journal, a month later, said: 
                        "The Whig State Convention will assemble in this city on February 26. The election
                            next October will be the most important ever held in the State. Preceding as it does, the
                            Presidential election a few weeks, its result will exert an influence on that election. With
                            a strong State and Electoral ticket, the State can and will be redeemed at the approaching
                                elections."21
                  
                    
            
            The 
                        Hendricks county
                     Whigs recommended Henry S. Lane, of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , for governor, and General Scott and John J. Crittenden for President and
                    Vice-President. The 
                        Danville
                    
                    Advertiser then asserted: "Give us such a ticket and we will flax out
                    Locofoco-ism next fall."22
            
            The Whig State Convention of 1852 met on February 26, in the Hall of Representatives of the State
                    Capitol at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but, 
                  
                     20
                            Indiana State Journal, Jan. 16, 1852.
                  
                     21
                            Indiana State Journal, Feb. 14, 1852.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Danville
                            
                            Advertiser, Feb. 18, 1852.
               
                     owing to the large attendance, adjourned to the Masonic Hall,
                    which, with a capacity of 1,500, was fully taxed to the limit by interested spectators. Much
                    speechmaking occurred and great praise was sounded on all sides for the gubernatorial nominee,
                    Nicholas McCarty, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The convention passed resolutions endorsing General Scott and Senator John J.
                    Crittenden, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , for the Whig National nominations. The Whig State ticket was as follows :23 Governor, Nicholas McCarty, 
                        Marion county
                    ; Lieutenant-Governor, William Williams, 
                        Kosciusko county
                    ; Treasurer of State, Achilles Williams, 
                        Wayne county
                     (resigned); Simon T. Hadley, 
                        Hendricks county
                    ; Auditor of State, Douglass Macguire, 
                        Marion county
                    ; Secretary of State, John Osborne, 
                        Clay county
                    ; State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Aaron Wood, 
                        Putnam county
                    ; Judges of Supreme Court, 1st District, John B. Howe, 
                        Lagrange county
                    ; 2nd District, Charles Dewey, 
                        Clark county
                    ; 3rd District, David McDonald, 
                        Monroe county
                    ; 4th District, Samuel B. Gookins, 
                        Vigo county
                    ; Reporter of Supreme Court, A. L. Osborn, 
                        Laporte county
                    ; Clerk of Supreme Court, James A. Stretch, 
                        Grant county
                    . For State Electors, Col. Henry S. Lane and Pleasant A. Hackleman, 
                        Rushville
                    , were chosen. Colonel Lane had been a leader in the Mexican War and later, in 1860, was
                    elected governor of Indiana and 
                        United States
                     Senator in 1861. Mr. Hackleman was the editor of the 
                        Rushville
                    
                    Whig and later was a Brigadier-General in the Civil War, and was killed in battle
                    at Corinth, Miss. Mr. McCarty was a retired business man of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Mr. Williams, candidate for lieutenant-governor, was the editor of the Northern Indianian of 
                        Warsaw
                    , and was afterwards a member of Congress. Douglass Maguire, candidate for auditor, was
                    the founder of Indiana State Journal. John Osborne, candidate for state
                    superintendent of public instruction, was the founder of the first papers in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Greencastle
                    , and helped to found Asbury (DePauw) University. Excepting Judge Dewey, who really
                    lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , none of the Whig nominees came from the river counties, the section which the
                    Democrats so delighted to honor in their selections for State officers. Few of the Whig candidates
                    lived south of the National road; most were from the upper part of the State. The Democratic and
                    Whig parties appeared to have chosen their candidates according to their sectional residence, the
                    former favoring the southern portion of the 
                  
                     23
                            Indiana State Journal, Feb. 27, 1852.
               
                     State and the latter party the northern section. Such a
                    situation would indicate that sectionalism already prevailed in this State; that Indiana had a north
                    and south of her own. Here, in 1852, was intrastate sectionalism almost as well denned as the
                    interstate sectionalism of a decade later. The Whig ticket was no worse than the Democratic as
                    regards sectionalism.
            The Indiana State Journal made an earnest appeal for the support of the candidates
                    selected by the Convention and declared that if the Whig party supported them success was certain to
                    reward their efforts. Its plea to the Whig voters was as follows:
            "THE WATCH-FIRES RELIT"
            
               "BEHOLD How BRIGHTLY BREAKS THE
                        MORNING."
            
            
                    "Whigs! a duty remains to you. This excellent ticket was not put in the field to be
                        sacrificed. It was presented with a determination that it should succeed. But it needs our
                        utmost labors to achieve that success. Half the victory is already won. The nomination of Mr.
                        McCarty and his associates has struck terror into the before-boastful Locofoco camp. The other
                        half is yet to be done. Earnest, active exertions—untiring labors
                        —faithful effort—will accomplish it, and we shall rejoice in the ides of
                        October, over Indiana redeemed and disenthralled. On, then, to the contest and the victory
                            !"24
               
                
            The ticket which the Whigs placed in the field was not characterized by men of unusual ability; yet
                    at the same time, it was little, if any, different from the Democratic. The Whig ticket probably
                    lacked as many experienced politicians as the Democratic ticket, but that fact did not detract from
                    the ability of the candidates. The ticket does not appear to be as good as the Whigs could have
                    made. The politicians of this party, as in the Democratic, were not intent on choosing the best
                    qualified men for the offices. This accounts for the mediocre ability of some of the nominees of
                    both parties.
            The Free Soil party held its State Convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on May 17. Lacking an efficient organization, the party was obliged to give notice
                    through the press of the State, of the time and place of their Convention. One of their Convention
                    notices was as follows: 
                        "The friends of Freedom and of Free-Soil, including all those opposed to the
                            'Fugitive Slave Law,' will hold a State convention at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , on the third Monday in May—the 17th—for the purpose of
                            deliberating 
                        
                           24
                                    Indiana State Journal, Feb. 27, 1852.
                     
                             upon the interest of the cause of liberty and of our
                            State and Nation. Each township is requested to send one delegate to the
                                convention."25
                  
                    
            
            It is evident from this notice that even the Free-Soilers had almost come to the point of accepting
                    the compromise measures with the exception of that provision relating to the reclamation of fugitive
                    slaves.
            The Free-Soil Convention, according to the-report of the-Democratic New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Daily Ledger, was composed mostly of members of the old Abolition and Liberty
                    parties, with a few Whigs and Democrats, still clinging on to their skirts, who aided in organizing
                    the Free-Soil party of 1848. One of those Democrats was George W. Julian, according to the Whigs,
                    although he had been more of a Whig than a Democrat in his entire previous career. The convention
                    determined on a separate organization and nominated a full State ticket, with the exception of
                    supreme court judges. Their ticket was as follows: Governor, Andrew L. Robinson, 
                        Vanderburgh county
                    ; Lieutenant-Governor, E. B. Crocker, 
                        St. Joseph county
                     (withdrew); James P. Milliken, 
                        Dearborn county
                    ; Secretary of State, Joshua C. Tibbets, 
                        Jefferson county
                    ; Treasurer of State, John B. Seamans, 
                        Tippecanoe county
                    ; Auditor of State, Micajah C. White, 
                        Hamilton county
                    ; State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Rawson Vaile, 
                        Wayne county
                    ; State Electors, James H. Cravens, 
                        Ripley county
                    , Stephen C. Stevens, 
                        Jefferson county
                    .26
            
            The Convention was addressed by Mr. Robinson, the candidate for Governor, and by George W. Julian and
                    several others. Julian said that all the old issues between the Whigs and Democrats were obsolete,
                    and those two political sects no longer deserved the appellation of parties, but were factions
                    fighting for the spoils of office. His complaint against the Democratic party was (the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Daily Ledger said), that it would not endorse his plan of abolition and disunion,
                    and enter into a crusade against the South.
            The Free Soil party drew most of its strength from the Democratic party which suffered most by the
                    organization of the Free Soilers. The State Sentinel waged a continual warfare
                    against them and any Democrat who dared exhibit Free Soil tendencies. This paper never ceased to
                    oppose Dr. E. W. H. Ellis, one of the Democratic State office-holders and the editor of the Indiana Statesman, for his leanings toward the principles of Free Soil. The State Sentinel
                    
                  
                     25 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, May 6, 1852.
                  
                     26 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, May 20, 1852.
               
                     purchased the Indiana Statesman during the
                    campaign in order to put an end to the propagation of the Free Soil doctrines which were
                    particularly offensive to the Sentinel's editor. The cause of Free Soil
                    was not greatly affected by the sale of its chief organ, as the party had already run its course of
                    usefulness as an individual organization. This party had little influence on the campaign and
                    elections of 1852.
            V. THE NATIONAL CONVENTIONS
            
            The first national convention of the year was the Democratic. The party had a wealth of men available
                    for presidential candidates, but to judge from the reputation and fame of the man who was ultimately
                    chosen for standard-bearer, one would be led to believe that the party was suffering from a great
                    dearth of candidates.27 The fact is that many of the available candidates were
                    decidedly unacceptable to all sections, as the friends and adherents of one man were very unwilling
                    to throw their support to any of the other would-be candidates. So, then, if the Democratic party
                    desired to be victorious, it was necessary to resort to the expedient characteristic of the party,
                    that of choosing a man little known to either politicians or the voters of the nation. Thus would
                    the sectional and the factional elements once more be united. The Democratic
                    Review, the official national organ of the party, early in the year made known its views
                    concerning the selection of the candidate. This paper said: 
                        "It must be remembered that this is no ordinary contest. The Democratic nominee of
                            '52, must, therefore, not be trammeled with ideas belonging to an anterior period,
                            or a man of merely local fame and local affections, but a statesman who can bring young
                            blood, young ideas, and young hearts to the councils of the Eepublic. The Democratic party
                            expects from the 
                                Baltimore
                             Convention a new man, a statesman of sound Democratic pluck."28
                  
                    
            
            The Democratic Review got just such a man as it asked for, better, doubtless, than
                    if he had been made to order.
            The Whigs were fully aware of the dilemma which confronted their opponents and joyed greatly in the
                    Democrats' seeming inability 
                  
                     27 James Schouler, History of the U. S., Vol. 5,
                            Chap. XX, pp. 240-2; Wood-row Wilson, History of the American People, Vol.
                            4, p. 156; James F. Rhodes, History of the U. S., Vol. 1, Chap. Ill, p.
                            271.
                  
                     28
                            Democratic Review, Feb. 16, 1852.
               
                     to solve their problem. The Indiana State
                    Journal surmised excellently and most correctly when it said: 
                        "The Democrats are in a quandary. They don't know whom to select. We would
                            not be surprised at the nomination of some man who has never been named for the
                                Presidency."29
                  
                    
            
            The Journal anticipated the Democrats in their action and solved the problem for
                    them.
            It was commonly believed previous to the convention that the candidate would be a "dark
                    horse," or at least one not generally known. A 
                        Washington
                     correspondent, in writing to the Indiana State Journal, about two
                    weeks prior to the Democratic convention, made the first mention of Gen. 
                        Franklin
                     Pierce as an available man for the nomination. He wrote as follows: "Gen. G.
                    J. Pillow has been here (at 
                        Washington
                    ) on Presidential business—he gave out that none of the prominent Locofoco
                    candidates stood any chance of an election against General Scott or any other Whig candidate; and
                    earnestly advocated starting a new man. He is in favor of Gen. 
                        Franklin
                     Pierce of 
                         New Hampshire 
                     for the Presidential candidate and General Pillow for the Vice-Presidency, and is now
                    on a political mission to the Granite State to confer with his associate, Mexican Militia General.
                    This new ticket is favorably regarded by the facetious portion of the
                    'unterrified'—the two P. P.'s—Pierce and
                    Pillow—the first P. celebrated for having escorted a long wagon-train from 
                        Vera Cruz
                     to 
                        Mexico
                    , or some intermediate points, and the second P. celebrated for introducing inside
                    instead of outside ditching in military defenses."30 This strength
                    which the Whigs tried to manufacture for Pierce was not evident, for it did not manifest itself
                    until the convention had dragged along for several days.
            When the Convention met in 
                        Baltimore
                     on June 1st, General Lewis Cass appeared to be leading other candidates as far as
                    pre-convention strength was concerned. Several county conventions in this State had endorsed
                    Cass's candidacy and the general hope and expectation in this section was that Cass would
                    be the nominee. The Indiana delegates went instructed for Gen. Joseph Lane, of Indiana.
            The convention was organized with John W. Davis, of Sullivan county, Indiana, as president. The
                    two-thirds rule requiring a two-thirds vote of the convention to nominate, was adopted. Mr. Davis,
                    in his opening speech, exhorted the members to harmony, conciliation, 
                  
                     29
                            Indiana State Journal, May 26, 1852.
                  
                     30
                            Indiana State Journal, May 19, 1852.
               
                     and compromise. Everything for principle—nothing for
                    men, he declared as the guiding law of the convention.
            The balloting for the nomination for president began late the first day. On the first ballot General
                    Cass led with 116, Buchanan had 93, Marcy 27 and Douglas 20. Indiana gave 13 votes for Lane. On the
                    17th ballot, General Lane held seventh place among the candidates. Cass's lead had been
                    reduced. When the 30th ballot had been taken, the Indiana delegation announced that its 13 votes
                    would thereafter go to General Cass. The Indiana State Sentinel had expected to
                    see Governor Marcy, of 
                        New York
                    , the nominee, but he dropped out on the seventeenth ballot.
            On June 6, by the 49th ballot, General 
                        Franklin
                     Pierce, of 
                         New Hampshire 
                    , received the nomination by an almost unanimous vote. The platform which the Democrats
                    adopted, affirmed the belief in the "finality" of the compromise measures as a
                    lasting adjustment of the slavery question.
            The extended session of the Democratic Convention (five days) and the great number of ballots
                    (forty-nine) required to nominate, was explained by the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Journal (Whig), as showing the selfishness of the friends of the different
                    candidates. Then it added: "We have the talent and worth of the party laid aside
                    and—Mr. Pierce nominated. He was taken up on the same principle that Mr. Polk was
                    nominated on in '44."31 The Journal knew
                    that the nomination of one of the Democratic leaders meant dividing the party and certain success
                    for their own party. They feared a repetition of the election of 1844. As a second to the sentiments
                    of the Logans-port Journal as just quoted, the Indiana State
                    Journal, with a desire for the Whigs to go the Democrats one better, made the prediction that
                    the Whigs would show such unanimity that not more than one day would be necessary for balloting, nor
                    more than two ballots would be necessary to make the nomination.
            The Indiana State Sentinel expressed its satisfaction with the work of the National
                    Convention, and immediately began running the party candidates' names at the head of the
                    editorial column, with the appended declaration: For President, 
                        Franklin
                     Pierce, 
                         New Hampshire 
                    ; for Vice-President, William R. King, 
                         Alabama 
                    . "No North, no South, no East, no West under the Constitution; but a sacred
                    maintenance of the common bond and true devotion to the common brotherhood. *
                    * *—FRANKLIN PIERCE."32
               
            
            
               
                  31
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, June 12, 1852.
               32 Indiana State Sentinel, June 7, 1852.
            
            
            The Indiana Democrats were not any too well pleased with their party's presidential nominee;
                    they had expected General Cass to be the candidate again. General Pierce was very little known by
                    Democrats in this section of the country and the news of his nomination was received with little
                    enthusiasm here. Mr. King was known to be a strong pro-slavery Southerner and Free Soil Democrats
                    saw no cause for joy in his nomination. The Democratic nominees were not of a kind to arouse much
                    party interest or enthusiasm.
            The Whigs set their convention for June 16, thus allowing themselves full opportunity to profit by
                    the example and mistakes of the Democrats. Probably there was not one Whig who attended their
                    Convention who had the slightest misgiving, or entertained any doubt concerning the future of his
                    party. That this was to be their last national convention of importance, not one could'
                    believe. Yet there were opposition newspapers which frequently indulged in foretelling the future of
                    the Whig party. During the time of the Whig National Convention, the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Daily Ledger, Democratic, made a prophecy which its editor most appropriately
                    called ominous. His prediction read as follows: 
                        "In a crowded city, when persons are lying very ill, it is customary to spread
                            tan-bark over the pavement in the vicinity of the residence, to prevent the noise of passing
                            vehicles from disturbing the sick. The Whig National Convention adopted the same plan. The
                            streets in the vicinity of their hall were covered with tan-bark, and it is hoped that the
                            last hours of those who were then and there stretched on their political deathbed were not
                            disturbed by any unnecessary noise and confusion."33
                  
                    
            
            During the convention the Whigs appeared to be animated by a new life.
            The nomination of Gen. Winfield Scott as the Whig candidate for the Presidency had been supported and
                    endorsed by the Whig press and Whig leaders throughout the State for more than a year preceding the
                    National Convention of 1852. The Indiana State Journal had supported him for
                    sixteen months. The Indiana Whig State Convention and those of thirteen other States had endorsed
                    Scott's candidacy before April, 1852. The general expectation seemed to be that General
                    Scott would receive the nomination, although there would be opposition. The Whigs were now
                    considering the kind of campaign he should conduct. General Scott being 
                  
                     33 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, June 23, 1852.
               
                     very reticent in expressing his opinions and it being a settled
                    policy with Whig Presidential candidates to campaign on their personal reputation, it was decided
                    best to have the candidate be non-committal on all the issues of the day. Horace Greeley, the
                    greatest of Whig editors, expressed his belief on the subject in the following editorial published
                    in his 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune: 
                        "If the Whigs are to elect the President of 1852 at all, they are to elect him as
                            they elected the President of 1848, without reference to the slavery question, or to any
                            measures, whether they be compromise or any other that grow out of it. The northern Whigs
                            are willing to go for General Scott because he is a good Whig, and because they believe he
                            can be elected. All they ask of him is that he shall not come out and pledge himself to
                            slavery men or measures, and thus make himself a sectional instead of a National candidate,
                            and this they will assuredly insist upon, let the consequences be what they
                                may."34
                  
                    
            
            It is evident from this expression that Greeley and other northern Whig leaders were afraid that the
                    Southern Whigs would make demands that Scott give pledges regarding the Slavery settlement. General
                    Scott tried to square himself with all sections of the country by declaring for the Union as the
                    only issue, and in his speeches he repeatedly spoke of his great affection for the Union.35
            
            The Democratic press of Indiana criticized General Scott for his attitude toward the Catholic Church.
                    The trouble all went back to Kossuth's visit and the Hungarian appeal for aid. General
                    Scott, the Whigs and the Catholics opposed all aid to the Hungarians while the Democrats gladly
                    championed their cause. For this pro-Catholic attitude, the Rising Sun Argus,
                    Democratic, used up the Whig party in the following excruciating manner:36
                    
                        "The Whig National Convention is to assemble in 
                                Baltimore
                             on Thursday, June 17. General Scott, of course, will receive the nomination,
                            and come before the people with his non-committal flag fluttering in the breeze, with a few
                            Roman Catholics to guide the rudder, Defrees (editor of the Inct. State
                            Journal), of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , bringing up the rear of Irish foreigners that Scott said fought so well with
                            him in 
                                Mexico
                            —because, forsooth, whilst Scott had the city of 
                                Mexico
                             (the renowned seat of Catholicism), under his military subjugation, he caused
                            the American soldiery under his command to bow down and be permitted to politely kiss the
                            foot of a few 
                        
                           34
                                    Indiana State Journal, April 20, 1852.
                        
                           35 Gen. Scott's Speech, Castle Garden, N. T., July
                                    1852 : "I have served tne Union for forty odd years and feel myself a
                                    citizen of every part of it; and whatever of life and strength I may have shall be
                                    devoted to its preservation." Indiana State Journal, July
                                    21, 1852.
                        
                           36 Rising Sun Argus, May 14, 1852.
                     
                             ignorant and superstitious Priests. Defrees having
                            already drummed up his regiment, by publishing the bull of the Roman Catholic Hierarchy of
                            Indiana, denouncing Kossuth and the cause of freedom generally, we expect to see the
                            'universal Whig party' emerging forth from the political contest of
                            November next with but one State in the Union, and that State is General
                        Apathy."
                    
            
            Both Whigs and Democrats played for the support of the many Catholic settlers coming to the country
                    in this period. Both parties were found advocating the doctrines of Native Americanism. The Catholic
                    vote was usually given to the Democratic candidates.
            Long before the States held their conventions, it had been recognized that President Fillmore ought
                    not to be the candidate. On his accession, he had become an active agent in promoting and had
                    strongly favored the compromise measures which the Anti-Slavery men abhorred. He had served his
                    party and country well, considering the circumstances, and he still retained the confidence of a
                    great part of the eastern Whigs. But there were other considerations which the Whig leaders held to
                    be weightier than these. The 
                        Washington
                     correspondent of the Indiana State Journal wrote, early in 1852,
                    concerning the trend of Whig favor away from Fillmore: 
                        "Mr. Fillmore's nomination and election would give great satisfaction to
                            most sound, conservative Whigs, but in view of the almost certainty that he could not carry
                            any one of the three great states of 
                        New
                                York, Pennsylvania
                      or 
                                Ohio
                            , it is not wonderful that there are few, who really desire the continued
                            preponderance of Whig principles in the councils of the nation, to be found advocating his
                            nomination. The signs of the times all point to the hero of 'Lundy's Lane
                            and Chapultepec' as the next Whig candidate for President. Indications seem to
                            anticipate General Scott's nomination with remarkable unanimity."37
                  
                    
            
            Fillmore's friends did put up a good fight for him in the convention.
            The Indiana Whig press generally wanted the National Convention to be held at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , because of its convenience. The Indiana State Journal thought the
                    delegates would come more direct from the people, and the selection of candidates, at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , more likely to be in accordance with the wishes of a great majority of the Whigs.
                    However, the convention met in 
                        Baltimore
                     on June 16.38 It continued for four days, balloting forty-six times
                    without great 
                  
                     37
                            Indiana State Journal, Feb. 18, 1852.
                  
                     38 "Webster's Candidacy," in Von Hoist, Constitutional History of U. S., IV, pp. 136-139.
               
                     change. On that ballot Scott had 134 votes, Fillmore 127 and
                    Webster 31. The Indiana delegation voted always for Scott. The balloting was resumed on the fifth
                    day and on the fifty-third ballot, General Scott was nominated by a vote of 148 to 118 for Fillmore
                    and 26 for Webster. William A. Graham, of 
                        North Carolina
                    , was the Vice-Presidential nominee. The predicted unanimity was somewhat lacking, for
                    the Whigs exceeded the Democrats in time and number of ballots, and instead of finishing on the
                    second day and nominating on the second ballot, five days and fifty-three ballots were necessary to
                    choose their standard-bearer. The Indiana delegation never failed to register its thirteen votes for
                    General Scott.
            The Whig platform met opposition within the ranks of the party, especially Article VII, which related
                    to the compromise measures.39 This declaration was strong language for the Whigs
                    to use, but it was written by southern delegates expressly for northern Whigs to acquiesce in.
                    General Scott was neither to acquiesce in it nor to repudiate it, and he played his part well. His
                    reputation and his services in the military field were a strong platform in themselves.
            The nomination of General Scott was the signal for widespread jollifying in Indiana by his own party
                    and the soldier element of the Democratic. Pierce's nomination, on the other hand, had been
                    received in a matter-of-fact way, simply because people did not know him. The Democrats of Indiana
                    did very little crowing for their candidate during the first weeks which followed the nomination,
                    while this was the only time that the Whigs had any cause to jollify during the campaign.
            The Anti-Slavery men, the Free-Soil Democrats, self-styled "Friends of Freedom,"
                    held their national convention at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     on August 11. Henry Wilson, of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , was President and Asa Turner, of Indiana, Vice-President of the Convention.
                    Resolutions were adopted condemning the institution of slavery and the parties affiliated with it.
                    The nominees were John P. Hale, of 
                         New Hampshire 
                    , and George W. Julian, of Indiana, for President and Vice-President, respectively.
                    Julian had been a Whig until 1848 when he supported 
                        Van
                     Buren. He was elected to Congress in 1851 on a Democratic Free Soil fusion ticket over
                    Samuel W. Parker in the Fifth District but was defeated in 1853. He never was a Democrat, although
                    the Whig press tried hard to make him out as one.
            
               
                  39
                        Indiana State Journal, June 22, 1852.
            
            
            The platform of the Free Democracy related mostly to the subject of slavery. The Convention adopted
                    several resolutions, about which the Indiana State Journal and other papers said:
                    "Some of the resolutions we like very well—and some we
                        don't."40 Resolution number 5 said in answer to the slave
                    power's demands for more territory and national recognition: "Our distinct and
                    final answer is NO MORE SLAVE STATES, NO SLAVE TERRITORY, NO NATIONALIZED SLAVERY and NO NATIONAL
                    LEGISLATION for the extradition of Slaves." Resolution number 21 contained their
                    characteristic closing words, "On our banner we inscribe Free Soil, Free Speech, Free
                    Labor, Free Men, and under it will fight on and fight ever until a triumphant victory shall reward
                    our exertions."
            The Native American Convention assembled in Trenton, N. J., on July 6 and determined to support
                    Daniel Webster for President. On July 14, the Southern Rights Convention was held at 
                        Montgomery
                    , 
                         Alabama 
                    , but the convention declined to nominate any candidate, recommending that adherents
                    pursue any course thought proper. Indiana had no interest in either of these two political
                    organizations.
            (To be Concluded)
            
               
                  40
                        Indiana State Journal, Oct. 1, 1852.
            
         
         
         
            George W. Julian's Journal—The Assassination of 
                        Lincoln
                    
            
            [The following pages from the Journal of Mr. Julian were furnished by his daughter, Mrs. Grace Julian
                    Clarke, of 
                        Irvington
                    , Indiana. George W. Julian was one of the best known of Indiana's public men
                    fifty years ago. These extracts from his diary covering the closing days of the Civil War and the
                    assassination of 
                        Lincoln
                     are of general historical interest and especially so to Indianians. The readers of the
                        Indiana Magazine of History will no doubt wish to have more extracts from this
                    interesting Journal. A brief sketch of Julian will be in place here.
            George W. Julian was born near 
                        Centerville
                    , Ind., May 5, 1817. His ancestors were from 
                        North Carolina
                     and were among the early settlers in the Whitewater Valley. Young Julian attended the
                    common schools, studied law and was admitted to the bar in 1840. In politics he was a Whig of
                    pronounced anti-slavery disposition, being of the 
                        Quaker
                     stock whose migration from 
                        North Carolina
                     to the Northwest was largely prompted by slavery conditions in the Carolinas. He was
                    elected to Congress as a Freesoiler on a fusion ticket between Democrats and Free-soilers in 1848.
                    Julian was elected to the Lower House of the Indian Legislature in 1845; he was a delegate to the
                    National Free Soil 
                        Buffalo
                     Convention in 1848, and was a candidate for Vice-President on the Free Soil ticket with
                    John V. Hale in 1852. He was a delegate to the first national convention of the Republican Party in
                    1856, which met in 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . February 22 of that year for the national organization of the new party, and Mr.
                    Julian was chairman of the Committee on Organization. He had been elected as a Free Soiler (by the
                    aid of a Democratic endorsement) to the thirty-first Congress in 1848, and served in Congress from
                    March 4, 1849, to March 4, 1851. He was again elected to Congress, as a Republican, serving in the
                    37th, 38th, 39th, 40th and 41st Congresses, from March 4, 1861 to March 4, 1871, in one of the
                    stormiest periods in our country's history. In this period he stood with the radical
                    anti-slavery men, under the leadership of Stevens, Wade and Sumner, and he was a member of important
                    committees, including the one on the Conduct of the War. He was an ardent advocate of the homestead
                    system, of suffrage for the negro, and as early as 1868, he proposed a constitutional amendment to
                    confer suffrage upon women. He was always the ready champion of the principle of fundamental
                    democracy —"equal rights for all, special privileges for none,"
                    regardless of race, color, creed, or sex.
            Julian became a Liberal Republican along with Sumner, Schurz, White-law Reid and others in 1872,
                    supporting Horace Greeley for the Presidency  against Grant. In
                    1884 he supported 
                        Cleveland
                     for President and was appointed by President Cleveland Surveyor General of New 
                        Mexico
                    . He served four years in that office, from 1886 to 1890. He died in 
                        Irvington
                    , now a part of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , on July 7, 1899. Mr. Julian's second wife, the mother of Mrs. Grace Julian
                    Clarke, was a daughter of Joshua E. Giddings the noted anti-slavery hero and champion of the old
                    Western Reserve District of 
                        Ohio
                    , whose parliamentary and political struggles with the representatives of the slave
                    interests form so large a part of the exciting anti-slavery controversy. George W. Julian's
                    Life of Giddings is a valuable contribution to the literature and history of that conflict. In his
                    later years Mr. Julian was a contributor to the American Historical Review and
                    other journals. His Speeches on Political Questions are well known contributions
                    to our political literature. The "Journal" of Julian is a record of notable
                    interest touching the men and events of a great period. His life deserves a memorial volume.
            J. A. W.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, January 3, 1865.
                        Have been trying to get together and arrange some thoughts on the subject of selling
                                    our mineral lands. The city has been very dull during the vacation, nearly all the
                                    members of Congress having gone home. Attended the committee meeting today, but
                                    nothing was done but listen to old Ben Wade hold forth in his peculiar style. He
                                    denounces the Administration and the servility and cowardice of Congress. We have no
                                    stirring news since the unfortunate failure at Wilmington, which seems to have no
                                    parallel among the many horrid blunders of this war.
                        The New Year was ushered in quietly here, and I spent nearly the whole day in my
                                    room.
                        
                           SUNDAY, January 8.
                        Have been attending the sessions of the House and am writing off the first draft of a
                                    speech on mineral lands. Had a talk the other day with Mr. Hugh McCulloch on the
                                    subject; also with Dr. Elder and Horace Greeley. They are all for selling these
                                    lands. So is old John Wilson, ex-Commissioner of the Land Office, on whom I called
                                    the other day. He knows more about our land question probably than any man in the
                                    Union. He is to draw a bill for me as he thinks it should be.
                        Yesterday, on the advice of financial friends, I invested $1,800 in
                                    seven-thirty bonds. Have now in bonds and bank stock $6,000 and
                                    $1,300 loaned. If I have no bad luck I hope to be able to save nearly all
                                    my salary for the next two years.
                        
                        Have a present of a nice scarf from Mrs. Cheesman of 
                                        California
                                    , who boards here, and a present from Laura of a fine copy of the New
                                    Testament and Psalms, given on the anniversary of our marriage. Also, of a ball.
                        
                           FRIDAY, January 20.
                        Attending the session of the House and of the Committee on the Conduct of the War,
                                    writing a good many letters, and at work on my speech. I will be done with it in a
                                    few days.
                        On Tuesday last we had General 
                                        Butler
                                     before our committee all day. His testimony is in the highest degree
                                    interesting, and will vindicate him against the charges which now seem to weigh him
                                    down. It turns out that his failure at Fort Fisher was not the cause of his late
                                    removal, which had been determined on before, the failure being simply made the
                                    occasion. Either 
                                        Butler
                                     or Grant has lied, as there is a square contradiction between them. We
                                    shall send for Grant and others, and have a complete sifting of the whole matter.
                                    When 
                                        Butler
                                     came before us Wade asked him to state his rank and position in the
                                    army at this time. He answered promptly: "My rank is that of a
                                    Major-General of Volunteers, and my position is that of a witness before the
                                    Committee on the Conduct of the War." He is a "brick."1
                        
                        
                           THURSDAY NIGHT, January 26.
                        Finished my mineral land speech two or three days ago. Last night had Mr. Blodget and
                                    Mr. Taylor, of the Treasury Department here endeavoring to perfect my bill. We had a
                                    most interesting discussion. Conklin, of 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    , was also with us— the man who deluges me with letters about
                                    minerals and railroads. Have begun to prepare a general speech on the rebellion,
                                    slavery, etc., to be delivered after awhile if I can get the floor. On Tuesday we
                                    had a spicy debate in the House growing out of some charges of Brooks, of 
                                        New York
                                    , against General 
                                        Butler
                                    . 
                              
                                 1 On Jan. 7, 1865, Grant removed 
                                                Butler
                                             from the command of the Department of 
                                                Virginia
                                             and 
                                                North Carolina
                                            , "for the good of the service."
                                            "There is," wrote Grant to Stanton, the Secretary of War,
                                            "a lack of confidence felt in his military ability, making him an
                                            unsafe commander for a large army. His administration of the affairs of his
                                            department is also objectionable." On Feb. 7, 1865, Stanton
                                            telegraphed to Grant, "The President orders that you as being
                                            responsible for military results must be allowed to be judge and master on
                                            the subjects of trade with the enemy." Mr. Rhodes calls this the
                                            true policy. Gen. Grant had expressed the opinion that commercial
                                            non-intercourse with the enemy would have a very positive effect in
                                            shortening the war. It is well known that the illicit trade in cotton was
                                            very hard to control.
                           
                                     Boutwell made a good speech, and with the help
                                    of Stevens overwhelmingly vindicated the "old beast," and
                                    demolished Brooks.
                        SATURDAY NIGHT, January 20.
                        Tried hard today to get a hearing at the War Department, but failed. Last night
                                    attended the Speaker's reception and visited Senator Conness to talk about
                                    mineral lands. His self-esteem is a disease.
                        WEDNESDAY NIGHT, February 1.
                        Just returned from Mr. Chase's reception, where I went with Mrs. Cheesman.
                                    Mrs. Sprague appeared grandly and so did the Chief Justice.2
                        
                        The greatest event of this century occurred yesterday in the passage of the
                                    Constitutional Amendment in the House. The spectacle during the vote was the most
                                    solemn and impressive I ever witnessed. The result for a good while remained in
                                    doubt, and the suspense produced perfect stillness. When it was certainly known that
                                    the measure had carried, the cheering in the hall and densely packed galleries
                                    exceeded anything I ever before saw and beggared description. Members joined in the
                                    shouting, and kept it up for some minutes. Some embraced one another, others wept
                                    like children. I never before felt as I then did, and thanked God for the blessed
                                    opportunity of recording my name where it will be as honored as those of the signers
                                    of the Declaration of Independence. What a grand jubilee for the old battle-scarred
                                    Abolitionists. Glorious fruit of the war. I have felt, ever since the vote, as if I
                                    were in a new country. I seem to breathe better, and feel comforted and refreshed.
                        Another event, following close after this, was the admission of Doctor Rock, of 
                                        Boston
                                    , a colored lawyer and scholar, to practice in the Supreme Court. No
                                    objection was made, even by the old Dred Scott judges.
                        Have my bill ready to offer.
                        FRIDAY, February 10.
                        On Monday evening went with Laura to visit Mrs. Swisshelm and Mrs. Berkau. On
                                    Wednesday night we went to Ford's Theatre to hear "She Stoops to
                                    Conquer" and were badly bored. Last night made further calls and am trying
                                    to be a little sociable.
                        The Freedmen's Bill passed the House yesterday, and last week 
                              
                                 2 Kate Chase Sprague, the daughter of the Chief
                                            Justice and wife of the 
                                                 Rhode Island 
                                             Senator.
                           
                                     the Ship Canal bills, involving large
                                    appropriations, were passed. On Wednesday both Houses assembled to count the votes
                                    for President, and I think I never before saw the hall and galleries so crowded. On
                                    Tuesday evening in convention of the whole, I made my general political speech,
                                    which is not yet printed, and yesterday I reported back my land bill and delivered
                                    my speech upon it which will be in the Globe today. Both are to be
                                    put in pamphlet for distribution. Am behind with my work and shall be overwhelmed
                                    with duties till the end of the session. Have great fears that neither my Mineral
                                    Land Bill nor Homestead Bill of the last session will pass at this session, but am
                                    proud of them and hope they will.
                        SUNDAY NIGHT, February 12.
                        Laura has just taken the cars for 
                                        New York
                                     on her way to her old home in Jefferson, and I am alone.
                        General Grant was before our committee yesterday and contradicted 
                                        Butler
                                     squarely on several matters of fact, showing a good deal of feeling.
                                    Reports are current as to his excessive drinking of late, and he looks as if they
                                    were true.
                        Dick Thompson, an old pro-slavery fossil, has just been appointed judge of the Court
                                    of Claims. This is an outrage, but I learn from senators that nothing can be done to
                                    prevent his confirmation, for the reason that old Abe, through his patronage, is the
                                    virtual dictator of the country. I have tried to get Colfax and other Indiana
                                    congressmen to unite in a protest against the confirmation, but they decline, on the
                                    ground that they don't want any quarrel with 
                                        Lincoln
                                     or Thompson. I am utterly sick of the every-day
                                    spectacles of moral cowardice, for which I see no remedy.3
                        
                        Today, by an arrangement with Mr. Channing, our chaplain, the Rev. Mr. Garnett
                                    preached in the House, the first colored man who ever preached in the Capitol. Dr.
                                    Bock practicing law in the Supreme Court and Dr. Garnett preaching to Senators and
                                    Representatives ! The world does move.
                        THURSDAY, February 16.
                        Today General Halleck was before the War Committee, uniting with other witnesses in
                                    damaging General Banks. Last night had a pleasant interview with 
                                        Lincoln
                                     and urged the appointment of McCullough as Secretary of the Treasury. I
                                    think he will go 
                              
                                 3 The reference is to Hon. Richard W. Thompson of 
                                                Terre Haute
                                            .
                           
                                     in. Tonight had several hands and franked and
                                    tied up 2,300 speeches ready for the mail. My mineral land bill is exciting much
                                    interest and criticism. Yesterday attended the funeral of Senator Hicks and the
                                    ceremonies in the Senate chamber were imposing.
                        SUNDAY, February 19.
                        Enjoyed "Still Water Runs Deep" at the 
                                        Washington
                                     Theatre last night. Glorious news from Sherman's army this
                                    morning, announcing that 
                                        Columbia
                                     is ours and probably 
                                        Charleston
                                    . Went with Indiana friends to the preaching at the Capitol today and
                                    met Father Pierrepont. Franked large quantities of documents this afternoon.
                        (The next entries tell of the illness and death of Mr. Julian's oldest son,
                                    Edward Channing, at 
                                        Mount Vernon
                                    , 
                                         Iowa 
                                    , where he was visiting his grandmother and other relatives, and where
                                    his father went in time to minister to him during the last few days of his life,
                                    taking his body to 
                                        Centerville
                                     for burial.)
                        TUESDAY EVENING, March 28.
                        Left home Monday, the 20th, reaching 
                                        Washington
                                     Wednesday evening, and resuming my old quarters at 76 Indiana avenue.
                                    Have been attending to business at the departments and consulting with Wade and
                                    Gooch, the only members of the War Committee who are here, as to our unfinished
                                    business. We expect to leave for Carolina on Thursday. Heard a grand sermon on
                                    Sunday from Channing. Telegraphed Laura to come and join me in the trip south, but
                                    she declines.
                        FRIDAY, March 31.
                        Our trip south postponed till a week from today. 
                                        Lincoln
                                     is at City Point trying to patch up a peace and also to get Grant to
                                    revoke his order forbidding trade in cotton. A bill regulating this trade passed the
                                    late Congress, but 
                                        Lincoln
                                     pocketed it, whereupon Washburne at once visited Grant and procured the
                                    order mentioned, which stands in the way of 
                                        Lincoln
                                     and his friends. It is proved before our committee that 
                                        Lincoln
                                    , in violation of law, has been granting permits to trade in cotton and
                                    that he has refused to respond in any way to a resolution of the Senate, passed a
                                    month before the adjournment, calling on him for specific information as to these
                                    permits, to whom granted, etc., etc. Wade says this administration is more corrupt
                                    than that of Buchanan.
                        
                        FRIDAY MORNING, April 7.
                        On last Monday morning left for 
                                        New York
                                    , and soon after heard of the fall of 
                                        Richmond
                                    . Found the city in a blaze of enthusiasm, Wall street packed with
                                    people, singing, shouting, etc. 
                                        Broadway
                                    , with its innumerable banners, was the finest sight I had ever beheld.
                                    People seemed wild with joy. Spent Tuesday morning shopping, and at night heard a
                                    fine sermon by James Freeman Clarke in Doctor Bellows' church. Next day
                                    attended the National Unitarian convention at 
                                        Broadway
                                     Athenaeum and saw on the platform Doctor Dewey, Doctor Bellows, Doctor
                                    Palfrey, William Cullen Bryant and many other notables whose names have long been
                                    familiar to me through Unitarian publications. In the evening called on General 
                                        Fremont
                                    , who had retired; but had a long talk with Jessie, and Lilly, the
                                    daughter, a charming girl. Jessie rages at all sorts of people, especially at
                                    Greeley, Beecher, and Garrison. According to her, the General was shamefully
                                    betrayed by pretended radical and anti-
                                        Lincoln
                                     men who deserted him in time of greatest need, after encouraging him to
                                    stand in the breach.4
                        
                        Left 
                                        New York
                                     yesterday morning, and am again at my old quarters, ready for the
                                    southern trip.
                        SUNDAY AFTERNOON, April 9.
                        We start south tomorrow, the navy not having been able sooner to fit us out with a
                                    good sea-going vessel.
                        Nothing new here but the general excitement over the good news from our armies. Much
                                    indignation is shown against Greeley and Beecher for their false magnanimity towards
                                    rebels, and justly. The Sergeant-at-arms of the Senate has presented most of the
                                    members of our committee with a fine 
                                        Spencer
                                     rifle, with belt, rigging, ammunition, etc., and a Colt's navy
                                    revolver. I shall go home bristling with war and glory!
                        
                           
                              4 This refers to the nomination of Gen. 
                                            Fremont
                                         for President at the 
                                            Cleveland
                                         convention in 1864, by the radical anti-slavery mal-contents who
                                        had been dissatisfied with what they considered the too conservative course of 
                                            Lincoln
                                        . 
                                            Fremont
                                         for President and Cochrane for Vice-President were nominated as a
                                        means of forestalling the renomination of the Persident by the Eepublicans, when
                                        it was thought by many that 
                                            Lincoln
                                         could not be elected. The radical ticket was withdrawn in the fall
                                        of 1864 in order that the "Union Party" ticket (
                                            Lincoln
                                         and Johnson) might present a united front to the enemy. Stevens,
                                        Wade and Julian were among the radical leaders in Congress who had not been
                                        favorable to 
                                            Lincoln
                                        's renomination. Mrs. Fremont ("Jessie")
                                        evidently felt that some one had betrayed the general.
                        
                        
                        TUESDAY NIGHT, 11th.
                        Left 
                                        Washington
                                     at 2 p. m. yesterday and reached Fortress 
                                        Monroe
                                     at 6 this morning. Here we learned that the 
                                         Alabama 
                                    , which the navy had furnished us, would have to be detained some 20
                                    hours to coal, so we came directly here, passing 
                                        Jamestown
                                    , Point Lookout, Harrison's Landing, and other places of
                                    interest and seeing a most lovely country. At City Point Admiral Porter came on
                                    board and told us we could go to 
                                        Richmond
                                     if we were willing to risk the torpedoes. He furnished us a pilot, and
                                    though we had some fears we came safely. In the morning we are to go on shore and
                                    hope to get away by noon tomorrow, so that we may yet reach 
                                        Charleston
                                     for the great Anniversary.
                        CITY POINT, Wednesday, April 12, 9 p. m.
                        Went to sleep last night on our boat lulled by the music of the guitar and the
                                    singing of the negroes below. Slept sweetly my first night in 
                                        Richmond
                                    , and at about 8 in the morning our party started out sight-seeing, some
                                    in carriages and some on horse-back. I tried the latter, as did most of us. each
                                    with an orderly to show him the way and act as servant. I must have traveled over
                                    ten miles and am, of course, sore, having scarcely had so much exercise in a year. I
                                    bantered Mrs. Barrett, one of our party, for a race, which she accepted. I came out
                                    ahead and exulted greatly. The first notable place we visited was Gen.
                                    Weitzell's headquarters, just vacated by Jeff. Davis in the upper part of
                                    the city, a fine three-story residence, which was bought for him at the beginning of
                                    the war. It has a large finely finished double parlor, a ladies' parlor and
                                    a small secluded room attached in which there is a library and where all sorts of
                                    treasons are said to have been hatched and debated. There is besides a large
                                    circular ante-room containing fine mirrors, statuary, etc.. General Weitzel looks
                                    the soldier all over. His head is a 
                                        German
                                     one, not intellectual in its frontal appearance, but fully developed in
                                    the "driving powers." We next proceeded to the Capitol, an ancient
                                    building, not to be compared with our best modern state capitols in size or style of
                                    architecture. As you go through the grounds enclosing it you pass the monument on
                                    which stand large bronze statues of Jefferson, Madison and Henry, the summit of the
                                    structure being surmounted by the figure of 
                                        Washington
                                     on horseback. The steps around this monument were crowded by swarms of
                                    negro  men and women whose faces beamed with joy
                                    and satisfaction. As we entered the Capitol we found great crowds of rebels waiting
                                    to take the oath, a business that was being attended to in the Senate chamber. We
                                    entered the House of Representatives, small and plain-looking, with dilapidated
                                    furniture and faded pictures of distinguished Virginians suspended on the walls.
                                    Ascending to the library above, we found a pretty large collection of books, but
                                    very few modern publications, especially of our own authors. There appeared to be no
                                    new books or new editions of old ones, and they were chiefly English and French, and
                                    showed the monarchial tastes of the "first families." I noticed
                                    many copies of the Bible, none of which seemed ever to have been used, and there was
                                    a liberal supply of theological works of the most approved orthodoxy. I would have
                                    lingered here, but time would not permit. We ascended to the top of the building,
                                    from which we had a magnificent view of the city and country round about. No sight
                                    could be more attractive, for 
                                        Richmond
                                    , all agree, is one of the most beautiful towns in the world. Nearly all
                                    the houses are well-built and clean-looking. From the top of the Capitol we could
                                    see plainly Libby prison, Castle Thunder, and Belle Isle, places immortalized by the
                                    infamy which their names will forever recall. We next proceeded to Libby Prison, a
                                    large three-story tobacco warehouse. I passed through the two upper stories, but did
                                    not go into the more loathsome dungeons below, where our poor boys suffered so much,
                                    and which are now occupied by rebel prisoners. The filth, vermin and disease which
                                    one must encounter there kept me from going.
                        From here, headed by General Devons, we rode out to see the rebel fortifications,
                                    which consist of three lines girdling the city after the manner of 
                                        Paris
                                    . We passed to the second line, a mile or more beyond the interior one,
                                    the other one being some two and one-half miles further and estimated to be thirty
                                    miles in circumference. Gradually making our way towards the city we stopped to rest
                                    awhile at the headquarters of General Roberts, a little out of the city, who
                                    occupies the fine mansion of a rich rebel named Mayo, who is connected by marriage
                                    with the family of General Scott, two of whose children lie buried near by.
                                    Everything here had an antique look, furniture, pictures, etc., and the house itself
                                    was built long before the Revolution, of brick imported from 
                                        England
                                    . The grounds, garden, etc., are beautiful,  the view of the James being the finest possible. Near
                                    the house towards the river is the stone which marks the grave of Powhat-tan, and in
                                    the garden is the large bowlder on which it is said the head of Capt. John Smith was
                                    placed when death was to be inflicted. General Roberts occupies this house along
                                    with Mr. Mayo, who has two sons and one grandson in the rebel army, all of whom are
                                    expected home and have the right to return and enjoy it unmolested under the recent
                                    stipulations of General Grant. Being now much fatigued, I was glad to return to the
                                    wharf, give up my horse and odrerly, and rejoin our crew on the 
                                        Baltimore
                                    , all as tired and as gratified as myself by the day's
                                    observations.
                        Before starting out in the morning, we saw the 
                                        Richmond
                                    
                                    Whig containing an order signed by General Weitzel inviting
                                    Hunter, Mc-Mullen and other rebel leaders, including the rebel legislature, to meet
                                    in 
                                        Richmond
                                     on the 25th to confer with us on the restoration of peace,
                                    transportation and safe conduct being ordered for the villains for the purpose. We
                                    were all thunder-struck, and I never before saw such force and fitness in Ben
                                    Wade's swearing. Curses loud and deep were uttered by more than one at this
                                    infamous proposition to treat with leading rebels. This fake magnanimity is to be
                                    our ruin after all, I fear. The rebel officers in 
                                        Richmond
                                     are strutting round the streets in full uniform looking as impudent as
                                    may be.
                        At 4 p. m. we left 
                                        Richmond
                                     having a charming ride down the James and seeing a most lovely country
                                    which we had passed in the night as we came, including Drury's Landing,
                                    Dutch Gap Canal, Malvern Hills, etc. Reaching City Point a little after sunset, we
                                    were delighted with the view of the shipping, floating to and fro, with its red and
                                    blue lights forming a semi-circle in the bend of the river and contrasting admirably
                                    with the darkness of 
                                        Richmond
                                    . We lie here tonight on account of rain and fog.
                        FRIDAY AFTERNOON, April 14, nearing 
                                        Washington
                                    .
                        We did not leave City Point till late yesterday morning and the day was nearly spent
                                    when we reached Fortress 
                                        Monroe
                                    . Here we landed and rambled over the fortifications till near sunset.
                                    The Rodman 15-inch guns and the Parrott guns were among the objects of special
                                    interest and the lovely weather lent an additional charm to the natural and
                                    artificial beauty of the place. We reached Point Lookout about one o'clock,
                                    a place scarcely less attractive than  Fortress 
                                        Monroe
                                    . Here we took horses and rode through the quarters of the prisoners now
                                    numbering about 18,000, occupying tents inside of a tract of some fifty acres
                                    enclosed by a high plank fence. The prisoners are chiefly Carolinians, who look well
                                    and are better dressed than I had supposed. They are evidently the poor white trash
                                    of the South who have been drawn into the war without knowing why. The soup houses
                                    are prepared on a large scale and I was much interested in seeing how such a
                                    multitude could be fed. Encountering Mrs. Barrett on our return to the river, I had
                                    another race with her, beating her worse than before.
                        Before we reached Fortress 
                                        Monroe
                                     it became known that our 
                                        Charleston
                                     trip was a failure. Wade would not go, Chandler refused, and, in fact,
                                    never intended to go, doing all he could to prevent the trip. Gooch would not go
                                    without Wade, and so the thing was given up, much to the chagrin of our party, who
                                    had set their hearts upon seeing 
                                        Charleston
                                    . We have now passed 
                                        Mt. Vernon

                                    , at sunset, having a fine view and shall very soon be safe in 
                                        Washington
                                    .
                        SATURDAY EVENING, April 15.
                        Reached here at seven o'clock yesterday evening, as glad to get back as I
                                    was sorry to have missed 
                                        Charleston
                                    . Went to bed about 10:30 and was soon roused from a deep sleep by
                                    someone knocking at my door. Mr. Woods entered and told me 
                                        Lincoln
                                     was murdered, and Seward and son probably, and that assassins were
                                    about to take the town. I was still half asleep and in my fright grew suddenly cold,
                                    heartsick, and almost helpless. On going out on the street a little later I found
                                    the whole town in a blaze of excitement and rage. About 7:30 the church bells tolled
                                    the President's death. The weather was as gloomy as the mood of the people.
                                    All sorts of rumors were afloat about Seward and his sons, who are still living, but
                                    with doubtful chance of recovery. They are said to be dreadfully gashed and bruised.
                                    Booth is the murderer of 
                                        Lincoln
                                    , but the other assassins are not yet known.
                        Johnson was inaugurated today at 11 a. m., and took the oath, and he has already been
                                    in the hands of Chase, the Blairs, Halleck, General Scott, etc. Chase has again gone
                                    crazy about the presidency, and it is said is now plotting for the State Department
                                    as a stepping stone. Vain thought! The War Committee today sent a request for an
                                    interview with the President and will probably secure it tomorrow. Have spent most
                                    of the afternoon in  caucus with Wade, Chandler,
                                    Covode, Judge Carter and Wilkinson, correspondent of The Tribune,
                                    who is determined to put Greeley on the war-path. In this caucus we agreed upon a
                                    new cabinet, which we are tomorrow to urge upon Johnson, among other things placing 
                                        Butler
                                     in the State Department, Stebbins, of 
                                        New York
                                    , in the navy, and Covode Postmaster General. I like the radicalism of
                                    the members of this caucus, but have not in a long time heard so much profanity. It
                                    became intolerably disgusting. Their hostility towards 
                                        Lincoln
                                    's policy of conciliation and contempt for his weakness were
                                    undisguised; and the universal feeling among radical men here is that his death is a
                                    godsend. It really seems so, for among the last acts of his official life was an
                                    invitation to some of the chief rebel conspirators to meet in 
                                        Richmond
                                     and confer with us on the subject of peace. The dastardly attack upon 
                                        Lincoln
                                     and Seward, the great leaders in the policy of mercy, puts to flight
                                    utterly every vestige of humanitarian weakness, and makes it seem that justice shall
                                    be done and the righteous ends of the war made sure. The government could not have
                                    survived the policy upon which it had entered.6
                        
                        SUNDAY NIGHT, April 16.
                        This morning went with our committee by appointment to meet the new President at his
                                    headquarters in the Treasury Department. He received us with decided cordiality.
                                    Wade said: "Johnson, we have faith in you. By the Gods, there will be no
                                    trouble now in running the government." He replied, "I am very
                                    much obliged to you gentlemen, and I can only say you can judge of my policy by the
                                    past. Everybody knows what that is. I hold this: Robbery is a crime; rape is a
                                    crime; murder is a crime; treason is a crime; and crime must be punished. The law provides for it and the courts are open.
                                    Treason must be made infamous and traitors must be impoverished. We applauded his
                                    declarations and parted. From him and others I learn that General Weitzel's
                                    order before referred to was issued by direction of 
                              
                                 6 It is apparent that Thaddeus Stevens was not alone
                                            in his policy of "vindictive vengeance" toward the South
                                            in the period following the war. There is no doubt that Julian expresses
                                            here the overwhelming sentiment of the North during the days immediately
                                            following the assassination of 
                                                Lincoln
                                            . The hate and spirit of vengeance engendered on both sides by
                                            the war were indicated by many utterances from prominent men in public and
                                            private life. Time was needed for the recovery of the nobler spirit of 
                                                Lincoln
                                            —"with malice toward none, with charity for
                                            all."
                           
                                    
                                    
                                        Lincoln
                                    , who yielded to the pressure against him so far as to acquiesce in
                                    Stanton's order removing Weitzel for having acted without authority. This
                                    was outrageously unjust to Weitzel. It seems from the Intelligencer this morning that 
                                        Lincoln
                                     had ordered that Thompson and Letcher should be allowed to escape out
                                    of the country as one of his last public acts. On our way from the Treasury we
                                    called on General 
                                        Butler
                                     at Willard's, who had just reached the city. He is in fine
                                    spirits and is to see the President this evening. A caucus of the radical members of
                                    the War Committee is to meet the President tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock to
                                    confer about a new cabinet. 
                                        Butler
                                     says the President must not administer on the estate of 
                                        Lincoln
                                     but on that of the government, and select new men to do it. I am now
                                    more than rejoiced that we did not go to 
                                        Charleston
                                    . The conservatives of the country are not here, and the presence and
                                    influence of the War Committee with Johnson, who is an ex-member, will powerfully
                                    aid the new administration in getting onto the right track.
                        Grant's terms with Lee were too easy, and the force surrendered was too
                                    small to be of great consequence.
                        MONDAY EVENING, April 17.
                        Last night went to the African Baptist church on Fourth street and was much
                                    interested. This morning went as per appointment to see the President. We talked
                                    very frankly and the symptoms seemed favorable. This evening attended the meeting of
                                    Senators and Representatives to make arrangements as to the funeral of the
                                    President. I am on the committee of escort to convey the remains to 
                                        Illinois
                                    , but I cannot leave my duties here. The excitement growing out of the
                                    President's murder increases.
                        TUESDAY EVENING, 18th.
                        Wrote a long letter home for the Republican. Great crowds are
                                    pouring in to attend the funeral tomorrow. Went to the east room of the White House
                                    this evening and saw the remains of the President. Great crowds have been struggling
                                    for admission all day, and more than 100,000 must have gazed at his remains since
                                    morning. Made a very pleasant call on Father Pierrepont this evening.
                        WEDNESDAY NIGHT.
                        Attended the funeral in the east room. The procession has no parallel. The funeral of
                                    General Taylor, which I attended,  was nothing
                                    in comparison. The negroes appeared finely in the procession, and the
                                    President's hold on them is wonderful, and indeed on the whole country,
                                    including even those who regarded his death as a providential means of saving the
                                    country. He was a plain man of the people, indeed one of them, and
                                    hence their devotion to him.
                        MONDAY, 24th.
                        On Saturday last we had General Rosecrans before our committee, and his account of
                                    the campaign of Western 
                                        Virginia
                                     makes McClellan look meaner than ever. On last Friday went with
                                    Indianians to call on President Johnson. Governor Morton transgressed the
                                    proprieties by reading a carefully prepared essay on the subject of reconstruction.
                                    Johnson entered upon the same theme, indulging in bad grammar, bad pronunciation and
                                    much incoherency of thought. In common with many, I was mortified.7
                        
                        THURSDAY, April 27th.
                        Called on Tuesday to see the President. Went last night to see Bierstadt's
                                    grand picture of the Rocky Mountains.
                        Universal surprise and indignation prevail here as to Sherman's shameful
                                    capitulation. While I am writing the news comes of the capture and death of Booth.
                                    Saw Secretary Stanton today about the conduct of General Meredith at Paducah, where,
                                    Union men are being shot like dogs and are being compelled to sell their farms and
                                    leave the district while Meredith is being loaded with rebel gifts and attending
                                    rebel balls.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  7 The political relations between Morton and Julian were not cordial.
                        Their antagonism dated from long standing differences. Julian "was radical, able,
                        eloquent, and uncompromising toward all who differed from his way of thinking. When Morton
                        withdrew from the Democratic party Julian considered him too conservative" for
                        "full fellowship with the faithful." Julian also denounced Know-nothings in
                        the bitterest invective and did not want them in the Republican party. Morton, more moderate,
                        more recently awakened to the dangers to be feared from the slave power, more practical in his
                        remedy, would unite and strengthen all opposing elements. Julian did not like the influence
                        which Morton had acquired in the new party. He had been opposed to Morton's candidacy
                        (for governor) in 1856 and though he had taken the stump for Morton against Willard he
                        afterwards spoke of the ticket as "a combination of weaknesses, instead of a union of
                        forces." He did not regret Morton's defeat in 1856, for he said: "Had
                        the slippery tactics of our leaders received the premium of a victory it would have been far
                        more disastrous in its influence hereafter than merited defeat, which may even bless us as a
                        timely reproof of our unfaithfulness." William Dudley Foulke's Life of Morton, Vol. I, pp. 61-66.
            
         
         
         
            The Indiana Historical Commission and Plans for the Centennial*
            
               BY JAMES A. WOODBURN
            
            Indiana is standing on the eve of her one-hundredth birthday. She became a State in the American
                    Union on Dec. 11, 1816. Next year we shall celebrate this centennial. In May, the official
                    celebration will begin by a commemoration of the one-hundredth anniversary of the election of the
                    first constitutional convention. The convention was held under the historic elm in the little town
                    of Corydon, where a constitution was drawn up in June. An election for governor and
                    lieutenant-governor was held in August, and in November, 1816, the new State government was
                    inaugurated by the Generaly Assembly at Corydon, and the final step in the process of converting a
                    territory into a State was accomplished with the acceptance by Congress of our State constitution
                    and the recognition of our statehood on December 11, 1816.
            It is altogether proper that the people of Indiana should take note of the hundredth anniversary of
                    these events and fittingly celebrate the birth of the State. This is to be done by official sanction
                    and in a large measure under official direction, but it is to be hoped that it will be done also by
                    a general and spontaneous co-operation of all the people throughout the State.
            The State in its organized capacity and through proper channels has already pointed out the way. On
                    March 8, 1915, an act of the legislature was approved by Governor Ralston creating a State
                    Historical Commission, providing for the editing and publication of historical materials and for an
                    historical and educational celebration of the Indiana centennial. This Historical Commission was
                    made to consist of nine members: The Governor of the State, the Director of Indiana Historical
                    Survey of Indiana University, (Professor James A. Woodburn), and the Director of the Department of
                    Indiana History and Archives of the State Library, (Professor Harlow Lindley, of Earlham College,)
                    were by the act made ex officio members of the commission. The Governor was
                    authorized to appoint 
                  
                     *This paper was read before the History Teachers Section of
                            the Indiana State Teachers Association at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Oct. 29, 1915.
               
                     six other members. This he proceeded to do, by naming President
                    Cavanaugh, of Notre Dame University, Mr. Charles W. Moores, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a vice president of the Indiana Historical Society; Mr. Lew M. O'Bannon, of
                    Corydon; Miss Charity Dye, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Mr. Samuel M. Foster, of Ft. Wayne, and Dr. Frank B. Wynn, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The creating act laid out work for the Commission on two lines:
            In the first place it is made the duty of the Historical Commission to collect, edit and publish
                    documentary and other materials on the history of Indiana. Copies of these volumes, to be printed
                    and bound at the expense of the State in such numbers as the commission may direct, are to be
                    distributed free to each public library in the State, and to the library of each college and normal
                    school in the State. Two hundred copies are to be supplied to the State Library and two hundred
                    copies to the Indiana Historical Survey to be used in making exchanges for similar publications
                    issued by other State departments, historical commissions, societies, and agencies. Other copies may
                    be sold by the Historical Commission at a price to be fixed, and the moneys received there from
                    shall be placed in the State Treasury to the credit of the Historical Commission.
            The other and distinct line of work to which the Commission is required to give its attention is to
                    prepare and execute plans for the centennial celebration in 1916, of Indiana's admission to
                    statehood. In doing this it may arrange such exhibits, pageants, and celebrations as it may deem
                    proper to illustrate the epochs in the growth of Indiana; to reveal its past and present resources
                    in each field of activity; to teach the development of industrial, agricultural, and social life and
                    the conservation of natural resources. The Commission is authorized toprepare cuts, photographs, and
                    materials illustrative of the history and development of the State and to cooperate in such manner
                    as the Commission may determine with State and local authorities and agencies in stimulating public
                    interest and activity in the celebration.
            The members of the Commission while being allowed their actual and necessary traveling expenses when
                    attending the meetings of the commission or engaged in its work, are allowed no compensations for
                    their services. But the Commission is authorized to  employ such
                    clerical and other assistance as may be necessary to carry out its duties.
            For all of this work there was appropriated for the use of the Commission the sum of
                    $25,000, of which $5,000 might be applied, if the Commission so ordered, for
                    the publication of historical materials.
            So much for the official act creating the Commission and defining the scope of its work. I wish now
                    to indicate, as briefly as I can what it has done and some of its plans and its hopes for the
                    future. It met for organization last May. Governor Ralston was made president and Dr. Frank B. Wynn,
                    an ardent pioneer in this cause, was made vice-president, and Professor Harlow Lindley, archivist of
                    the State Library, was made secretary.
            The Commission appointed, within its membership two general committees, one to oversee, direct and
                    promote the centennial celebration, of which Dr. Frank B. Wynn was made chairman, and a second
                    committee to attend to the preparation of and publication of historical material on Indiana, and of
                    this committee I have the honor to be chairman.
            The Commission reserved for the work of its historical committee the sum of $5,000, in
                    harmony with the spirit and provision of the statute, leaving only $20,000 to meet the
                    expenses of the Commission and for the expense of the Centennial Committee and the celebration of
                    the coming year.
            The work of Dr. Wynn's Centennial Commission is of more immediate public interest and deals
                    with the popular though highly important phases of our work with which the masses of the people are
                    most concerned. But the committee on the State's history deals with a part of the
                    Commission's work which, if not more important, is of more permanent and abiding character
                    in scope and purpose. After this year of glorious festivities has gone by, and the centennial year
                    has become only a memory; after "the tumult and the shouting dies," let us hope
                    that the work of the Commission on behalf of the history of the State will be with us yet,
                    "lest we forget." It can render Indiana a service that, while attracting no
                    general or spectacular interest, will be appreciated the more as the generations come and go. I
                    shall speak briefly of the projected plans of this committee before describing, as I shall do more
                    fully, the plans of the Centennial Committee for next year's centennial celebrations.
            Upon a report of its Historical Committee last June the 
                    Commission authorized the publication of the following historical material:
            1. Two volumes embracing the messages of the governors of Indiana, from territorial times to 1851,
                    covering the period of the Territory and the operation of the State under the first constitution.
                    These volumes will be prepared by the Indiana Historical Survey of Indiana University under the
                    general editorship of Professor Samuel B. Harding, of the Department of History.
            2. A volume on early travels in Indiana, under the editorship of Professor Harlow Lindley, aided by
                    the staff of the Archives Department of the State Library.
            3. A volume on the history of constitution-making in Indiana, prepared by Charles B. Kettleborough,
                    the expert in the Legislative Reference Bureau. This will include the fundamental law of the State
                    from the Ordinance of 1787 to the present time, with a narration of the facts and processes by which
                    our constitutions have been made, together with the amendments that have been proposed and adopted
                    and the judicial decisions relating thereto.
            It is the hope of the Commission that these volumes can be produced ready to be offered as centennial
                    publications before the close of 1916, and that this phase of the Commission's work will
                    receive further encouragement and support from the State. The State should preserve and make
                    accessible its historical materials in this way by the publication of many other such volumes. There
                    are rich ores in the mines for our historical workers, and while the workman may die this is a work
                    that should go on as long as the State endures.
            I shall speak now of the Centennial plans. The committee charged with the centennial celebration
                    under the leadership of Dr. Wynn, has done a great deal of work and has been fortunate in securing
                    the co-operation of many clubs, societies, literary and commercial bodies and local organizations
                    throughout the State. Public spirited men and women of talent and distinction in special directions
                    are devoting time and thought to this cause.
            At one of its meetings last spring the Commission decided to employ a director whose duty it should
                    be to give his whole time to the work in organizing and directing the centennial activities, and to
                    attend to the correspondence and to the means of publicity involved in such a State-wide enterprise.
                    For this work, the services of Mr. C. W. Woodward, assistant professor of history in Earlham
                    College,  have been obtained, and since the middle of June, Mr.
                    Woodward has been giving his time to the work of securing public attention, of obtaining the
                    co-operation of local agencies, informing public opinion in reference to the centennial celebration
                    and in executing the decisions and plans of the Commission. He has been ably assisted by an
                    executive secretary and expert stenographer, Miss Elliott, of 
                        Tipton
                    .
            The Commission held no meeting from June to September, but during these summer months, Mr. Woodward
                    and Miss Elliott, assisted by Miss Dye and Professor Lindley, members of the Commission, did much to
                    arouse public interest in the State in the approaching centennial by means of correspondence,
                    leaflets, newspaper articles and other publicity agencies. They spoke in a number of county
                    teachers' institutes in the State and Miss Dye before literary clubs and other audiences,
                    asking the co-operation of teachers and citizens, and the county superintendents of schools. An
                    Educational Committee of the Commission secured the hearty cooperation of the State Department of
                    Public Instruction, and through Superintendent Great house, Mr. J. I. Hoffman and Miss Barnard of
                    that office, suggestions and direction for the study of Indiana history were inserted in the school
                    manual which is published annually for the use of the common schools of the State and which lays out
                    their course of study. The History Section of the State Teachers' Association through
                    Professor O. H. Williams, and Dr. Logan Esarey, of the State University, prepared a volume on Readings on Indiana History giving selections from interesting and important
                    sources touching the past life of the State. This volume is published by the University and offered
                    to the teachers and the schools at what it has cost to pay for printing. So I think it is safe to
                    say that more attention is being paid in our public schools today to the history of Indiana than at
                    any other time within the history of the State and that our children are learning far more of that
                    history than was ever taught to their fathers and mothers.
            The director employed by the Commission has given considerable attention to the organization of the
                    counties. In nearly seventy counties of the State, a county chairman has been appointed, who has
                    consented to head and to organize a county committee to co-operate with the Commission in promoting
                    the general State-wide celebration and in arousing local interest and planning for local
                    celebrations. Every community has its history. To  arouse and
                    cultivate an interest in this history, to promote a knowledge of the community's past and
                    some concern for its future,— these will prove worthy means and factors in realizing a
                    suitable centennial celebration. Some notable local celebrations are now being planned by the people
                    of their respective communities,—at 
                        Brookville
                    , New 
                        Albany
                    , Corydon, 
                  Evansville, Vincennes
               , Blooming-ton, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and 
                        South Bend
                    , and at many other places, and if one will but put his ear to the ground and be intent
                    for news on this subject he will be impressed by the wide-spread and vital interest which is being
                    manifested by the people of the State in the cause of reviewing her history and celebrating her
                    foundations. By this time next year, we shall find all of Hoosierdom, from lake to river, awake and
                    rejoicing in one great jubilee, celebrating the struggles of our past and the achievements of our
                    present.
            So far I have spoken of what the Historical Commission has done. This is but little compared with
                    what is still to be done. What is planned for and hoped for, the future will reveal. We are just on
                    the eve of great endeavors, but when I speak of these, I am in the field not of accomplished facts
                    but of expectations and I can not, therefore, be so certain of my ground. Cortez is reported to have
                    said when he burnt his ships behind him, that "some things should be done before they are
                    even thought of." Perhaps some things should be done, or made sure of, before they are
                    publicly spoken of. It is not certain whether all our aims can be realized, but plans are ripening
                    which the Commission hopes soon to be able to announce, and if they come to full fruition, I feel
                    justified in saying that Indiana's centennial celebration will not only be a pronounced
                    success, but will prove to be one of the greatest educational agencies for revealing the past life
                    of a people to itself ever attempted by any American commonwealth. I refer to the possibilities
                    involved by the use of the pageant and the moving picture film.
            Ten days ago at a meeting of the Commission at Corydon it was decided to have a State celebration in
                    that town next May. At that time the First Constitutional Convention of the State will reassemble
                    under the old elm as a part of a drama which will re-enact the "Birth of a State."
                    Jonathan Jennings, the first governor of the State, will be there, presiding over the convention,
                    and William Hendricks, the secretary, who became the second governor. This historic pageant amid the
                    hills of 
                        Harrison county
                    , will represent the community life of that little town as it was a hundred years ago.
                         There will be similar pageants in which whole communities
                    will be concerned, in New 
                  Albany, Evansville, Vincennes,
                            Bloomington, Terre
                        Haute
                and other places. When the State Seminary, now the University,
                    first opened its doors in 1824, the first and only professor in the institution faced the untutored
                    boys sitting on the rustic benches, some without coats, some without shoes, some of whom had two
                    "galluses" and some had one. That scene, like many others can be reproduced and
                    the story of that early life as told by Baynard Hall in his famous book, The New
                        Purchase or Seven and a Half Years in the Far West, will furnish splendid material for the
                    pageantry of the stage. It will be put on at 
                        Bloomington
                    , under the forest trees of the university campus for the people of the whole community
                    and for all in the State who wish to come to see.
            To stage this community life by suitable pageantry in various parts of the State will be no light
                    task. It will require great labor and the direction of a master of pageantry, a man of expert
                    knowledge and experience.
            At the late Corydon meeting, Mr. Hugh McK. Landon, a public-spirited citizen of this city, made a
                    report to the commission on the pageant plans for the centennial celebration. Mr. Landon had made
                    careful inquiry into the subject and he recommended to the Commission the employment for the year of
                    an expert and recognized pageant master to have complete charge of this phase of the centennial
                    celebration, and he recommended that the State secure the services of Mr. William Chauncey Langdon,
                    of 
                        New York
                    , for this work.
            Mr. Langdon is a pageant dramatist, born in Florence, 
                         Italy 
                    , who studied two years at Cornell University and later graduated at 
                        Brown
                     University in 1892. He has for a number of years been a writer and consultant on
                    pageant-drama. His wife is a scenic artist, and Mr. Langdon has been a successful director of
                    pageants in New 
                        England
                    , and was the assistant director of the notable 
                        Philadelphia
                     Historical Pageant in 1912. It is expected that Mr. and Mrs. Langdon will come to
                    Indiana, making their headquarters at the university where they will give instruction in pageantry
                    and dramatization and train assistants who may prove competent to go to various parts of the State
                    to give aid and advice in community efforts elsewhere. To meet the expense involved in securing for
                    nearly a year such expert and artistic direction in pageantry, Mr. Landon in his report proposed
                    that the Commission should provide for one-third  of the
                    expense, the State University for one-third, and that he himself would raise the other third.
            This arrangement was approved by the Commission and it will likely be entered into and it is expected
                    that Mr. Langdon will soon be in Indiana to begin his task in preparation for this work.
            The success of the pageantry enterprise will require the expenditure of much money and the devoted
                    labor of many people. But Indiana has people with sufficient patriotic devotion, and the expense
                    will be met in the various localities by the participation of the several communities in their
                    willingness to promote an enterprise designed to enable them to witness the portrayal of their own
                    history.
            I come now to speak of the plans for the films and the motion pictures. A committee has reported a
                    plan to the Commission. This committee consists of Dr. Wynn, a member of the Commission, Robert
                    Lieber, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a man who is always ready to promote municipal improvement and public enterprise, and
                    Mr. George Ade, too well known to fame to need any designation here. These gentlemen are convinced
                    that a moving picture can be devised illustrating the evolution of Indiana from pioneer days to the
                    present time that will prove of immense educational value. It may be named the "Birth and
                    the Growth of a State."
            The production, while dealing with matters of local historical interest, will still have so many
                    features characteristic of the whole history of the West, that the final product will prove to be
                    not only of State-wide but of Nation-wide concern. It is intended that the whole production shall be
                    upon the highest plane, true to history, properly staged, and as such it can indeed be made a means
                    of Nation-wide instruction.
            To bring such a plan to realization it will be necessary that a first-class producer should have
                    direction of the work, having the advice and co-operation not only of the Commission but of such
                    expert students of our historical lore as will enable the director to produce an artistic as well as
                    a faithful presentation of the whole historical problem. Inquiry, preparation, and investigation,
                    are going forward. The historical scenario is under way and when it is presented, Mr. Ade and Mr.
                    Lieber of the Committee have volunteered to go to 
                        Chicago
                     at an early date to visit concerns known to do high class work of this character, and
                    the determination is fixed that we shall either have first-class motion picture films to reveal the
                    story of Indiana history or we shall have none at all. We believe the  best is attainable. The best men and women in Indiana will offer their
                    patriotic collaboration, and under such circumstances it is quite reasonable to believe that an
                    expert film-maker may be found who will be willing to undertake on his own responsibility the
                    getting up of these historic films.
            If this plan can be realized what will the people of Indiana see? Let your imagination for a moment
                    go back over the distant past.
            Here is a scene of La Salle and his party and the fur-traders around 
                        South Bend
                    , about 1680. Twenty-eight men appear dressed as wood-rangers, or coureurs
                        de bois. A band of Mohican hunters come carrying their canoes and their furs, with Jesuit
                    attendants from the open prairie. The scene can be reproduced and photographed true to life around 
                        South Bend
                    .
            Another scene, of farming at 
                        Vincennes
                    , time about 1750. Two or more teams of oxen, wooden plow, long flexible beam, mounted
                    on two wheels, other teams' hitched to a wooden cart with two big wooden wheels made by
                    sawing off sections of a log. Typical dress of the eighteenth century. Variations in the
                    scene,—card playing, dancing, feasting, with plenty of snuff, tobacco, and spruce beer.
                    The materials are at hand to reproduce such a scene.
            Another scene: The capture of 
                        Vincennes
                    , 1779. Rude stockade, loopholes for musketry, bastions, palisaded, main entrance facing
                    the street. Fort defended by riflemen. Attack made by a band of 50 or 60 Virginians, no discipline,
                    hunters' rifles of flint lock, frontier dress, hunting shirts and moccasins; desultory,
                    though accurate firing. Peace parley between 
                        Hamilton
                    , Clark, Bowman and Hay. Old Captain Helm strolls leisurely out of the fort to where the
                    other men were in conference. Other soldiers come hurriedly and boisterously by, leading or dragging
                    a half dozen or more of Indians whom they tomahawk and throw into the river.
            This scene can be put before the camera down at 
                        Old Vincennes
                    . I ask for space to suggest one more scene:
            The Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , November 7, 1811, upon the scene of the Battle Ground itself. The Purdue boys can
                    stage this before the camera, true to life and with splendid effect. Five or six hundred white
                    soldiers and a band of Indians numbering perhaps five hundred. Flint lock rifles; western militia
                    dressed in militia uniform,—which is no uniform at all; regulars dressed in the uniform
                    of the 
                        United States
                     Rangers; soldiers sleeping on their arms: roused by a night attack and the war whoop of
                    the Indians. Fusilades of musketry and the general incidents of a frontier battle.  American officers on horseback, otherwise no horses. Charge by Jo 
                        Daviess
                    , in which he is killed. Indians press forward and some of them break through the lines.
                    As the day dawns, they quietly slip away leaving one hundred or more Indians and soldiers scattered
                    over the field.
            This would be by no means the only scene that would be full of thrills for boys and girls and
                    grown-ups of all ages. Life and motion, love and romance, achievement and glory, would permeate it
                    all—together with scenes of the every day life and work of a frontier
                    people—which, like grandfather's tales, will never pale nor grow old among the
                    eager and inquiring children of today. A hundred or more of such scenes can be arranged illustrative
                    of our history, and they can be developed in such order as to present an absorbing story vital with
                    human interest. Old Ouiatanon, 
                        Hamilton
                    's march to the relief of 
                        Vincennes
                    , crossing the portage from Ft. Wayne to 
                        Huntington
                    , the settlement of Clarksville, the organization of the Northwest Territory at
                            
                  Marietta, Ohio
               , a Terri-torical election, the Pigeon Roost Massacre, the
                    Rappites at 
                        New Harmony
                    , tavern scenes and the old log cabins, the camp meetings, the barbecues, the rifle
                    matches, the stump speeches, the college exhibitions, the court trials, the circuit riders, the
                    pigeon shooting, the charivari,—the boys marching to war or returning to their homes, the
                    development of agriculture, transportation, and industry —all these can be reproduced and
                    thrown upon the canvas to show the children of a new generation an ancestral life that seems now to
                    be in the distant and buried past.
            If these scenes can be staged by living persons upon the very scenes of their origins, photographed
                    for films and thrown upon the screen, then in every city, town and village in Indiana where there is
                    a moving picture show, the people of all sorts, ages, and conditions, may have brought before them
                    as in panorama the chief features in Hoosier history.
            "The past rises before me like a dream!" The past will come again, not merely as
                    the orator recalled it from: personal memory at Monument Place in 1876 as he recalled to the boys of
                    '61 the days when they marched out to war. But a more distant past will return, far beyond
                    the memories of living men. And as the Indiana of the present is brought before her past with its
                    achievements, its memories, its trials, and its tears, she will pledge herself in consecrated
                    devotion to the achievement of a better and nobler Indiana for the future.
         
         
         
            The Meaning of "Tassinong"
            
               BY JACOB P. DUNN, City Controller, 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            I presume that readers of the INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY are interested in
                    historical accuracy; and in this centennial period, when public attention is being focussed on our
                    history, it is desirable both to correct errors that have crept into our history in the past and to
                    prevent the introduction of new ones. For this reason any writer announcing a new discovery, or
                    advancing a novel theory, should cite his authorities; and if he fails to do so his statements
                    should receive close scrutiny.
            On these principles, I venture to question the derivation of
                    "Tassinong,"—the name of a village in 
                        Porter county
                    —advanced by Mr. Hubert Skinner in his article, "The Era of
                    Tassements, or Stockaded Trading Posts," in the September number of this magazine. He
                    states that during the period of French occupation of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley—1670 to 1763—the stockaded posts of the French were called
                        tassements, and says that Tassinong is a corruption of this
                    French word.
            Mr. Skinner does not cite any use of the word tassement in this sense. On the
                    contrary he says: 
                        "The very word tassement has dropped out of use in both its French
                            and English forms. It is not now to be found with the definition of
                            'palisade' in any dictionary or cyclopedia that is in use. It is rarely
                            used in any sense. * * * French scholars and teachers,
                            people of wide reading and culture, will tell you today that they never heard or saw the
                            word tassement in all their lives. You may search for it in vain in the
                            modern French lexicons and cyclopedias. It is only in the rare writings of centuries gone
                            that you can find it."
                    
            
            How remarkable! The word tassement will be found in any good French dictionary with
                    its definition of a subsidence, sinking or settling, especially of a building; but never as meaning
                    "a stockaded trading post." In the monumental Grand Dictionnaire
                        Universe!, of Larousse, which is supposed to give all obsolete and provincial words, there
                    is no such definition. In the Abbe Coron's Vocabu-laire a l'Usage des
                        Canadiens Francais there is no such definition.
            But, if in the French period "there were tassaments erected all  along the shores of the lakes and of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and its eastern confluents," as Mr. Skinner states, there ought to be common
                    mention of them in the letters from these regions during the French period. I have had occasion to
                    go through a large amount of that literature, but never found any mention of these tassements. In the large collection of letters and papers of this period, and this region,
                    known as the 
                        New York
                    
                    Colonial Documents there is no mention of a tassement. In the
                    Thwaites collection of The Jesuit Relations, 71 volumes, there are no less than
                    sixty mentions of stockaded posts, forts, villages, missions, etc., but no use of the word tassement. They are usually called palissades, and occasionally
                        palissade de pieux, fort de pieux, or simply des pieux. I
                    submit that Mr. Skinner should specify the "rare writing" where he finds this word
                    used in this sense.
            As to the mode of corruption of the word, Mr. Skinner says: "By an old rule for rendering
                    French words in English equivalents, the French syllable ment was always written
                        mong in English, and in such words as this the middle vowel was represented by
                    T to make sure that the word would be pronounced in three syllables. Thus the English equivalent of
                        tassement was tassimong." But, unfortunately, tassement is not pronounced in three syllables, and the "a" is
                    not short; so that the English equivalent would be tahss-mong. Our verbal
                    corruptions are usually on phonetic lines. We successfully corrupted Lac du Chemin
                    to Lake Dishmaugh, and Marais de Orme to Mary Delome, but nobody could make tassimong out of tassement on phonetic lines.
            Mr. Skinner gets rid of his "m" by saying: "Old maps of 
                        Porter county
                    , likewise, are the last in the world to bear the name Tassimong, accidentally varied by
                    the substitution of 'n' for 'm' and written Tassinong."
                    But why old maps? Tassinong appears on recent maps of 
                        Porter county
                    ; and on what map, or in what document did Tassimong ever appear? And if such a change
                    were made accidentally on one map, why was it perpetuated not only on maps but also in local usage ?
                    Mr. Skinner himself says: "The earliest settlers of the country always called it
                    'Tassinaw.' " Had they also accidentally substituted an
                    "n" for an "m" ?
            But, if the tassement theory be discarded, can any rational theory of the
                    derivation of Tassinong be suggested? I think so. In a history of 
                        Porter county
                     published in 1882, in whose preparation Mr. Skinner assisted, I find at page 187 the
                    following: "The town of  Tassinong, or Tassinong Grove,
                    as it was formerly called, is indeed an ancient place. Its origin seems to be shrouded in obscurity.
                    The whites trace the locality back to 1830, but the Indians spoke of it as an old place even then.
                        Not that there was any town, but simply a locality bearing the name. It is probable that there was a French trading post here at a very early day."
            Here is a plain statement that Tassinong is an Indian place-name, in a tradition
                    recorded 33 years ago, and with no known reason for questioning the accuracy of the record at the
                    time it was made. The name itself confirms the tradition, for the ending "ong" is
                    the common Algonquian terminal locative—varied to onk, oong, ung, unk, ing, or ink, in
                    different dialects and with varying phonetic ideas of white writers. The name evidently means the
                    place of something; but of what ? The place was originally called Tassinong Grove. A grove of what?
                    If the place were in Miami territory I should guess "Place of Plums," for the
                    Miami word for plum is tassamin (all the vowels short), in which "min" is the generic word for berry, seed or fruit, and "tassa" is the descriptive element. But this is Potawatomi country, and I
                    do not know the Potawatomi word for plum. It might be the same as the Miami, for the two languages
                    are very similar. If there were originally plum thickets in this vicinity, the probability of this
                    meaning would be strong.
            It is not, however, "probable that there was a French trading post here at a very early
                    day." French trading posts were not so numerous as to escape mention easily; and they were
                    established for business purposes, with two essentials: (1) they must be close to customers, and (2)
                    they must have facilities for transportation of merchandise. In the early times transportation was
                    almost wholly by water, and it would not have been good business to locate a trading post at an
                    inland, out-of-the-way place like Tassinong, when there were plenty of accessible places within a
                    day's journey.
            Incidentally, while on the Indian subject, I would warn readers of the Magazine as
                    to the absurd story of the cause of Pigeon Roost massacre by Herman Rave, published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News of October 1. Those familiar with Mr. Rave's record as a newspaper
                    faker would not be misled, but others might be. There is no occasion for doubt as to who perpetrated
                    the massacre. It was the work of a war party of twelve Shawnees, led by Missilemetaw, who was
                    captured a year later at the River Raisin, and gave the whole story to Colonel Johnson.
            
            If there had been a suspected band of Delawares in the neighborhood, as stated by Mr. Rave, there
                    would have been a second chapter to the story, for on the day after the massacre there were 200
                    frontiersmen gathered at the place, thirsting for vengeance. There were in fact no 
                        Delaware
                     settlements nearer than the West Fork of White river. Mr. Rave's story of the
                    cause of the massacre— that an Indian climbed a hollow tree in pursuit of a coon, and
                    fell through a hole into the inside—ought not to attract much credulity. If he had said
                    an Indian climbed a hole in search for a tree, and fell into a coon, people might have believed him.
                    In reality there was no local cause for the massacre except the exposed situation of the settlement.
                    It was merely a feature of the general outbreak, which was shown in the attack on Fort Harrison on
                    the same day.
         
         
         
            Governor Harrison and the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , 1809
            
               BY ELLMORE BARCE, Fowler, Indiana
            In the year 1800, William Henry Harrison was appointed by President John Adams as Governor of Indiana
                    Territory, and he arrived at 
                        Vincennes
                     on the 10th day of January, 1801, and immediately entered upon the discharge of his
                    duties. At that time he was twenty-eight years of age, but notwithstanding his youth had seen hard
                    duty as a soldier and officer on the frontier and had served as aid-de-camp to General 
                        Wayne
                     at the battle of Falling Timbers. In that struggle he had distinguished himself for
                    gallant conduct. At a time when a detachment of the troops were wavering under the murderous fire of
                    the savages, and hesitating as to whether they would advance or retreat, he had galloped to the
                    front of the line, and with inspiring words had cheered the soldiers on to victory. The report of
                    General 
                        Wayne
                     says that he "rendered the most essential services by communicating his orders
                    in every direction, and by his bravery in exciting the troops to press for victory."
            In personal appearance, Harrison "was commanding, and his manners prepossessing. He was
                    about six feet high, of rather slender form, straight, and of a firm, elastic gait, even at the time
                    of his election to the presidency, though then closely bordering on seventy. He had a keen,
                    penetrating eye, denoting quickness of apprehension, promptness and energy."
            Though descended from an old and aristocratic family of 
                        Virginia
                    , and having been reared amid surroundings of luxury and elegance, the youthful soldier
                    never shrank from the most arduous duty and the severest hardships of camp or field. At the time of
                    his first arrival at Fort 
                        Washington
                     (
                        Cincinnati
                    ), after the defeat of St. Clair's army, he had been placed in command of a
                    company of men who were escorting pack-horses to Fort 
                        Hamilton
                    . The forest was full of hostile savages and the winter season was setting in with cold
                    rains and snow. The company was ill provided with tents and Harrison had nothing to shelter him from
                    the weather but his uniform and army blanket. He not only eluded the attacks of the  Indians and convoyed his charge through in safety, but made no
                    complaint whatever to his commanding general, and received St. Clair's "public
                    thanks for the fidelity and good conduct he displayed."
            "During the campaign on the 
                        Wabash
                    , the troops were put upon a half pound of bread a day. This quantity only was allowed
                    to officers of every rank, and rigidly conformed to in the general's own family. The
                    allowance for dinner was uniformly divided between the company, and not an atom more was permitted.
                    In the severe winter campaign of 1812-13, he slept under a thinner tent than any other person,
                    whether officer or soldier; and it was the general observation of the officers, that his
                    accommodations might generally be known by their being the worst in the army. Upon the expedition up
                    the Thames all his baggage was contained in a valise, while his bedding consisted of a single
                    blanket, over his saddle, and even this he gave to Colonel Evans, a British officer, who was
                    wounded. His subsistence was exactly that of a common soldier. On the night after the action upon
                    the Thames, thirty-five British officers supped with him upon fresh beef roasted before the fire,
                    without either salt or bread, and without ardent spirits of any kind. Whether upon the march, or in
                    the camp, the whole army was regularly under arms at day-break. Upon no occasion did he fail to be
                    out himself, however severe the weather, and was generally the first officer on horseback of the
                    whole army. Indeed, he made it a point on every occasion, to set an example of fortitude and
                    patience to the men, and share with them every hardship, difficulty and danger."
            Of his personal courage in the presence of great danger and peril there can be no question. Judge Law
                    says: "William Henry Harrison was as brave a man as ever lived." At 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , after the first savage yell, he mounted on horseback and rode from line to line
                    encouraging his men, although he knew that he was at all times a conspicuous mark for Indian
                    bullets. One leaden missile came so close as to pass through the rim of his hat, and Col. Abraham
                    Owen, Thomas 
                        Randolph
                     and others were killed at his side. "Upon one occasion, as he was approaching
                    an angle of the line, against which the Indians were advancing with horrible yells, Lieutenant
                    Emmer-son of the dragoons seized the bridle of his horse and earnestly entreated that he would not
                    go there; but the governor, putting spurs to his horse, pushed on to the point of attack, where the
                    enemy was received with firmness and driven back."
            
            To these traits, his fearless courage and willingness to share in the burdens and hardships of the
                    common soldier, may be attributed his great and lasting hold on the affections of the old 
                        Kentucky
                     and southern Indiana Indian fighters. To them he was not only a hero, but something
                    almost approaching a demi-god. It is pleasing to remember that when the expedition against the
                    Prophet was noised abroad, that Col. Joseph H. Daviess, then one of the most eloquent and powerful
                    advocates at the 
                        Kentucky
                     bar, offered in a personal letter to the general, to join the expedition as a private
                    in the ranks; that Col. Abraham Owen, one of the most renowned Indian fighters of that day, joined
                    the army voluntarily as an aide to its leader, and that Governor Scott of 
                        Kentucky
                     sent two companies of mounted volunteer infantry under Captains Funk and Guiger, to
                    participate in the campaign. It is also pleasing to remember that the warm affection of the pioneers
                    of that early day was transmitted to another and younger generation who grew up long after the
                    Indian wars were over, and who gave a rousing support to the old general that made him the ninth
                    President of the 
                        United States
                    .
            On his arrival at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1801, the population of that town was about seven hundred and fourteen persons. The
                    surrounding country contained about eight hundred and nineteen more, while fifty-five fur-traders
                    were scattered along the 
                        Wabash
                    , who carried on a traffic more or less illicit with the Indians. A large part of the
                    inhabitants of 
                        Vincennes
                     belonged to that class of French-Canadians, who produced the LaPlantes, the Barrons and
                    the Brouilettes of that time, some of them renowned Indian interpreters and river guides, who
                    figured prominently in the scenes and contests that followed. The remaining part of the population
                    consisted of settlers from the States, the more conspicuous being the Virginians, who were
                    afterwards denominated as the aristocrats, but who in reality contributed more to the growth and
                    prosperity of the frontier post than any other element. From this class of Virginians, some of them
                    men of learning and attainment, Harrison selected his retainers and henchmen. Chief among them were
                    Benjamin Parke, one of the commanders at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and the founder of the State law library in afte. years; and also Waller Taylor and
                    Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    , two of his aids in the 
                        Wabash
                     campaign and of his immediate military family. These men, together with Harrison,
                    comprised the "inner circle," who administered the affairs of 
                        Knox county
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , and at that time 
                        Knox county
                     held the lead and control  in public transactions
                    throughout the Territory. That they favored the suspension of the sixth article of the Ordinance of
                    1787, prohibiting slavery in the North-West Territory, is now established history, but they also
                    organized the courts and the representative assemblies of that day; enacted and enforced the public
                    laws, and set about to establish institutions of learning. Harrison in particular was a friend of
                    the schools. Besides that, these men and their followers organized the militia, gave the woodsmen a
                    training in the manual of arms, and exercised a wide-awake and eternal vigilance for the safety of
                    the frontier. The military instinct of the early Virginian was one of the great factors that
                    determined the conquest and established the permanent peace of the new land.
            Probably no magistrate was ever invested with greater powers in a new country than was General
                    Harrison in the first years of his governorship. "Amongst the powers conferred upon him,
                    were those, jointly with the judges, of the legislative functions of the Territory; the appointment
                    of all the civil officers within the territory, and all the military officers of a grade inferior in
                    rank to that of general, commander-in-chief of the militia,—the absolute and uncontrolled
                    power of pardoning all offenses—sole commissioner of treaties with the Indians, with
                    unlimited powers, and the power of confirming, at his option, all grants of land." That he
                    was left in control of these powers both under the administrations of President Jefferson and
                    President Madison is sufficient confirmation of the trust and confidence they reposed in him. In the
                    years to follow he was to conduct a great number of difficult negotiations with the chiefs and head
                    warriors of the Delawares, Shawnees, Miamis, Pot-tawattami, Kickapoos and other tribes, but in all
                    these treaties he was pre-eminently fair with the savages, never resorting to force or treachery, or
                    stooping to low intrigue or fraud. On the other hand copies of the old Western Sun
                    amply testify to the fact that prior to the important Indian treaties of 1809, at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    , he issued a public proclamation at the latter place, prohibiting any traffic in liquor
                    with the Indians, so that their judgment might not be perverted; that he constantly inveighed
                    against this illegal commerce with the tribes, and that he at various times attempted to restrain
                    the violence of the squatters and settlers who sought to appropriate the lands of their red
                    neighbors. The language of his first message to the territorial legislature reads thus:
                    "The humane and benevolent intentions of the government, however,  will forever be defeated, unless effectual measures be devised to
                    prevent the sale of ardent spirits to those unfortunate people. The law which has been passed by
                    Congress for that purpose has been found entirely ineffectual, because its operation has been
                    construed to relate to the Indian country exclusively. In calling your attention to this subject,
                    gentlemen, I am persuaded that it is unnecessary to remind you that the article of compact makes it
                    your duty to attend to it. The interest of your constituents, the interest of the miserable Indians,
                    and your own feelings, will urge you to take it into your most serious consideration and provide the
                    remedy which is to save thousands of our fellow creatures. So destructive has been the progress of
                    intemperance, that whole villages have been swept away. A miserable remnant is all that remains to
                    mark the homes and situation of many numerous and war-like tribes."
            Again, at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , on the 17th of September, 1809, preliminary to the famous treaty of that year, this
                    entry appears in the journal of the official proceedings: "The Pottawattamies waited on the
                    Governor and requested a little liquor, which was refused. The Governor observed that he was
                    determined to shut up the liquor casks until all the business was finished." This is the
                    conduct throughout of a wise and humane man dealing with an inferior race, but determined to take no
                    advantage of their folly.
            It was the steady and uniform policy of the United State government to extinguish the Indian titles
                    to the lands along the 
                        Wabash
                     and elsewhere, so that they might be opened up to the increasing tide of white
                    settlers. Contrary to the practices of most governments, however, in their dealings with aborigines,
                    the 
                        United States
                     had established the precedent of recognizing the right of the red men to the occupancy
                    of the soil and of entering into treaties of purchase with the various tribes, paying them in goods
                    and money for their lands, while allowing them the privilege of taking wild game in the territory
                    ceded. President Jefferson had always insisted on the payment of annuities in these purchases,
                    instead of a lump sum, so that a fund might be created for the continual support of the tribes from
                    year to year, and so that they might be enabled to purchase horses, cattle, hogs and the instruments
                    of husbandry and thus gradually enter upon the ways of civilization. That the dream of Jefferson was
                    never realized; that the North American savage never adopted the manners and pursuits of their white
                         brethren, does not bespeak any the less for the humane
                    instincts of his heart.
            In the negotiation of these treaties in the Northwest, Governor Harrison acted as the minister
                    plenipotentiary of the government, and the numerous Indian treaties of that day were conducted under
                    express authority and command from the City of 
                        Washington
                    . The series of negotiations finally terminated in the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     on September 30, 1809, by which the 
                        United States
                     acquired the title to about 2,900,000 acres, the greater part of which lay above the
                    old 
                        Vincennes
                     tract ceded by the Treaty of Grouseland, and below the mouth of Big Raccoon Creek in 
                        Parke county
                    . "At that period, 1809," says Dillon, "the total quantity of
                    land ceded to the 
                        United States
                    , under treaties which were concluded between Governor Harrison and various Indian
                    tribes, amounted to about 29,719,530 acres."
            As the consummation of that treaty was the principal and immediate cause which led up to the great
                    controversy with Tecumseh, and the stirring events that followed, including the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and as the charge was subsequently made by Tecumseh that it was brought about through
                    the threats of Winnemac, the Pottawattamie chief, it may rightfully be said to be the most important
                    Indian Treaty ever negotiated in the West, outside of General 
                        Wayne
                    's Treaty at Greenville in 1795. We will now enter into the details of that
                    transaction.
            That part of the lands acquired by the 
                        United States
                     government by the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and being situate in the valley of the 
                        Wabash
                     and its tributaries may be thus described: It lay south of a line drawn from the mouth
                    of Big Raccoon creek, in what is now 
                        Parke county
                    , and extending southeast to a point on the east fork of White river above 
                        Brownstown
                    . This line was commonly called the Ten O'clock Line, because the direction was
                    explained to the Indians as towards the point where the sun was at ten o'clock. The whole
                    territory acquired in the 
                        Wabash
                     valley and elsewhere embraced about 2,900,000 acres and in the 
                        Wabash
                     region was to be not less than thirty miles in width at its narrowest point. It will
                    thus be seen that the tract lay directly north of and adjoining the white settlements in and about 
                        Vincennes
                    .1
            
            There had been frequent and bitter clashes between the settlers and the Wea and Pottawattamie Indians
                    of this part of the territory 
                  
                     1 Jacob P. Dunn, History of Indiana, p. 300.
               
                     for years. Justice and right was not always on the side of the
                    white man. An acute commentator, speaking of the early frontiersmen, says: "They eagerly
                    craved the Indian lands; they would not be denied entrance to the thinly-peopled territory wherein
                    they intended to make homes for themselves and their children. Rough, masterful, lawless, they were
                    neither daunted by the powers of the red warriors whose wrath they braved, nor awed by the
                    displeasure of the government whose solemn engagements they violated.2
            
            The Treaty of Greenville had given the undisputed possession and occupancy of all the lands above 
                        Vincennes
                     and vicinity, and embraced within the limits of the territory ceded by the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , to the Indians. They were given the authority by that pact to drive off a squatter or
                    "punish him in such manner as they might think fit," indulging, however, in no
                    acts of "private revenge or retaliation." No trader was even allowed to enter this
                    domain unless he was licensed by the Government.3
            
            It is needless to say that no fine sense of right and justice existed either in the mind of the white
                    land-grabber or in that of his red antagonist. Many unlawful invasions of the Indian lands were
                    made. Moreover, many of the fur-traders along the 
                        Wabash
                     were of the lowest type of humanity. They employed any and all means to cheat and
                    defraud the Indians by the barter and sale of cheap trinkets and bad whiskey and often violated
                    every principle of honesty and fair-dealing. This kind of conduct on the part of the settlers and
                    traders furnished ample justification in the mind of the ignorant savage for the making of
                    reprisals. Many horses were stolen by them and often foul murders were committed by the more lawless
                    element. This horse-stealing and assassination led in turn to counter-attacks on the part of the
                    whites. In time, these acts of violence on the part of the vicious element in both races spread hate
                    and enmity in every direction. This kind of history was made. "A Muskoe Indian was killed
                    in 
                        Vincennes
                     by an Italian inn-keeper without any just cause. The governor ordered that the murderer
                    should be apprehended, but so great was the antagonism to the Indians among all classes, that on his
                    trial the jury acquitted the homicide almost without any deliberation. About the same time, two Wea
                    Indians were badly wounded near 
                        Vincennes
                     by some whites without the slightest provocation. Such facts exasperated the Indians,
                        
                  
                     2 Theodore Roosevelt, Winning of the West, IV, p.
                            32.
                  
                     3
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, Indian Treaties, pp. 115-116.
               
                     and led to their refusal to deliver up Indians who had
                    committed like offenses against the white men." These things occurred shortly prior to the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign, but a condition similar to this had existed for some time before the Treaty
                    of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . The governor was not insensible to the true state of affairs. He once said:
                    "I wish I could say the Indians were treated with justice and propriety on all occasions by
                    our citizens, but it is far otherwise. They are often abused and maltreated, and it is rare that
                    they obtain any satisfaction for the most unprovoked wrongs." But he also recognized the
                    fact, that the two races, so incompatible in habits, manners, customs and tastes, could not dwell in
                    peace together; that the progress of the white settlements ought not to and could not on that
                    account, be stayed; that it was up to him as the chief magistrate of the Western country and as the
                    Commissioner of Indian Affairs, to solve if he could, the troublous problem before him, and he
                    accordingly instructed Mr. John Johnson, the Agent of Indian Affairs, to assemble the tribes at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     for the purpose of making a new treaty.
            There were many false sentimentalists at that day, who not unlike their modern brethren, wept many
                    crocodile tears over the fate of the "poor Indian." They charged that the
                    governor, in the ensuing negotiations, resorted to trickery, and that he availed himself of the
                    threats and violence of Winnemac, the Pottawattamie Chief, in order to bring the hesitating tribes
                    to the terms of the purchase. In the face of the revealed and undisputed facts of history, these
                    charges were and are entirely false, and were evidently put in motion by disgruntled office-seekers
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                     as food for the foolish.
            The position of Governor Harrison during the whole course of his administration seems to have been
                    this: He sought to ameliorate the miserable condition of the savages at all times; sought by all
                    means within his power to bring to punishment those who committed outrages against them; constantly
                    demanded that the illegal traffic in liquor be stopped. However, neither Governor Harrison nor any
                    other man, however powerful, could stop the hand of fate, or abrogate the eternal law of the
                    survival of the fittest. After every endeavor to put a stop to abuses, and to quiet the impending
                    storm on the frontier, he resorted to the next, and seemingly only available means of putting an end
                    to the difficulty. That is, he provided for the separation of the two races as far as possible so as
                    to prevent  the conflicts between them; he provided for the
                    payment of annuities for their support and so that they might purchase horses and cattle and
                    implements of husbandry, and thus enter gradually upon the pursuits of peace. That the plan was not
                    feasible does not detract from the fairness and benevolence of its proposer. He was but following
                    the uniform custom which the government had at that time adopted and which the best minds of that
                    age indorsed. He could not foresee, in the light of that day, that the red man of the forest would
                    not accept the ways of civilization, and that all attempts of the government, however charitable,
                    would be wasted and in vain.
            The governor set out for the council house at old 
                        Fort Wayne
                     on the first day of September, 1809, on horseback, and accompanied only by Peter Jones,
                    his secretary, a personal servant; Joseph Barron, a famous Indian interpreter, a Frenchman for a
                    guide, and two Indians, probably Delawares of the friendly White River tribes. He traveled
                    eastwardly toward the western borders of 
                        Dearborn county
                     and thence north to the Post. Joseph Barron, the interpreter, is thus spoken of by
                    Judge Law: "He knew the Indian character well; had lived among them many years; spoke
                    fluently the language of every tribe which dwelt on the upper 
                        Wabash
                    ; understood their customs, habits, manners and charlatanry well, and although but
                    imperfectly educated, was one of the most remarkable men I ever knew."4
            
            The governor arrived at the Post on the fifteenth of the month, at the same time with the Delawares
                    and their interpreter, John Conner.
            To appreciate properly the hazard of this journey of two weeks through an untamed wilderness, across
                    rivers and through dense forests, camping at night in the solitude of the woods, and exposed at all
                    times to the attacks of the savages, one must take into consideration that already Tecumseh and the
                    Prophet were forming their confederacy and preaching a new crusade at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ; that they were fast filling the minds of their savage hearers with that fierce malice
                    and hate which was to break forth in the flame of revolt in a little over two years hence; that the
                    British agents at Maiden were loading the Indians with presents and filling their ears with
                    falsification as to the intentions of Harrison; that they were already arming them with guns,
                    bullets, knives and tomahawks, and that there were 
                  
                     4 John Law, History of 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                     , p. 100.
               
                     those among them who would not hesitate at assassination, if
                    they might hope to reap a British reward. Notwithstanding these facts Harrison did not hesitate.
            The scene about to be enacted was a memorable one. On the one hand were arrayed the governor, with
                    his servant and secretary, four Indian interpreters and a few officers of the Post; on the other,
                    the painted and feather-bedecked warriors and sachems of the Miamis, the Pottawattamie, the
                    Delawares and the Weas. On the third day of the council eight hundred and ninety-two warriors were
                    present; on the day of the actual signing of the Treaty, thirteen hundred and ninety. No such body
                    of red men had been assembled to meet a commissioner of the 
                        United States
                     since the treaty with Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     in 1795. Even at that assemblage there were present only eleven hundred and thirty.
            There were chiefs of the Mississinewa, loud and defiant, who openly declared their connection with
                    the British. There was Win-nemac, the Pottawattamie who afterwards slaughtered the surrendered
                    garrison at Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     and boasted of his murder. There was Silver Heels and Pucan, Five Medals and The Owl.
                    But above them all stood Little Turtle, the Miami. He had been present at the defeat of Harmar and
                    the slaughter of St. Clair's army. He had fought against 
                        Wayne
                     at Falling Timbers. In 1797 he had visited the great white father at 
                        Philadelphia
                    , President Washington, and had been presented with a brace of elegantly mounted pistols
                    by the Baron 
                        Kosciusko
                    . There were braves present whose hands had been besmeared with the blood of innocent
                    women and children—who had raised the savage yell of terror while setting fire-brands to
                    the cabin and tomahawking its inmates.
            During the days that were to follow there were many loud and violent harangues; parties of warriors
                    arrived with presents of the British emissaries in their hands, and saying that they had been
                    advised never to yield another foot of territory; at one time, on Sep tember 26, the Pottawattamie,
                    in open assembly, raised a shout of defiance against the Miamis, poured out torrents of abuse on the
                    heads of their chieftains and withdrew from the council declaring that the tomahawk was raised. Amid
                    all this loud jangling and savage quarreling the governor remained unperturbed and steady to his
                    purpose. Notwithstanding frequent demands, he constantly refused to deal out any liquor except in
                    the most meager quantities —he restrained the Pottawattamie and made them smoke the pipe
                         of peace with their offended allies—he met and
                    answered all the arguments suggested by the British agents—and after fifteen days of
                    constant and unremitting effort won the chiefs of the Mississinewa and gained the day.
            The official account of the proceedings as made by Peter Jones, secretary to the governor, and now
                    reposing in the archives of the 
                        United States
                     government, shows that instead of attempting to make any purchase of Indian lands when
                    only a small number of representatives of the tribes were present, that the governor on the 18th of
                    September, despatched messengers to 
                        Detroit
                     to summon certain Delawares and Pottawattamies who were absent; that on the same day he
                    also directed Joseph Barron to go to the Miami villages along the 
                        Wabash
                     to call in Richardville, one of the principal chiefs of that tribe. The records also
                    show that while the governor had some private conferences with some of the principal chiefs for the
                    purpose of urging their support to his plans, that he addressed all his principal remarks to the
                    tribes in open council of all the warriors, and at a time when four interpreters were present,
                    to-wit: William Wells, Joseph Barron, John Conner and Abraham Ash, to translate his observations.
            The first of these great councils was on September 22. The arguments of the governor, so interesting
                    at this day, are thus officially set forth: "He urged the vast benefit which they (the
                    Indians) derived from their annuities, without which they would not be able to clothe their women
                    and children. The great advance in the price of goods and the depression of the value of their
                    peltries from the trouble in Europe, to which there was no probability of a speedy determination.
                    The little game which remained in their country, particularly that part of it which he proposed to
                    purchase. The usurpation of it by a banditti of Muscoes and other tribes; that the sale of it would
                    not prevent their hunting upon it as long as any game remained. But that it was absolutely necessary
                    that they should adopt some other plan for their support. That the raising of cattle and hogs
                    required little labor and would be the surest resource as a substitute for the wild animals which
                    they had so unfortunately destroyed for the sake of their skins. Their fondness for hunting might
                    still be gratified if they would prevent their young men from hunting at improper seasons of the
                    year. But to do this effectually, it would be necessary that they should find a certain support in
                    their villages in the summer season. That the proposed  addition
                    to their annuities would enable them to purchase the domestic animals necessary to commence raising
                    them on a large scale. He observed also that they were too apt to impute their poverty and the
                    scarcity of game to the encroachments of the white settlers. But this is not the true cause. It is
                    owing to their own improvidence and to the advice of the British traders by whom they were
                    stimulated to kill the wild animals for their skins alone, when the flesh was not wanted. That this
                    was the cause of their scarcity is evident from their being found in much greater quantity on the
                    south than on the north side of the 
                        Wabash
                     where no white men but traders were ever seen. The remnant of the Weas who inhabit the
                    tract of country which was wanted were from their vicinity, to the whites poor and miserable; all
                    the proceeds of their hunts and the great part of their annuities expended in whiskey. The Miami
                    Nation would be more respectable and formidable if its scattered members were assembled in the
                    center of their country."
            The reasoning of the governor was cogent. That the British insisted on holding the frontier posts at 
                        Detroit
                     and elsewhere so long, was directly attributable to their desire to monopolize the fur
                    trade with the Indians. It was not so much their desire for dominion as their greed for profit. The
                    traffic in skins was lucrative and the advancing stride of the American traders was viewed with
                    jealousy and alarm. It was also true that the tribes along the 
                        Wabash
                     were exhausting the supply of wild game. The plan of inducing them to accept annuities
                    and to purchase cattle, hogs and other domestic animals for the purpose of replenishing their food
                    supply seemed highly plausible to the minds of that day. That the Weas on the lower 
                        Wabash
                     would be better off if removed from the immediate neighborhood of the white settlements
                    where they could purchase fire-water and indulge their vices, did not admit of doubt. It was
                    possibly the only plan of bringing relief from the troubles which were daily augmenting between the
                    two races of men.
            From the first, however, the appeal of the governor met with a cold reception at the hands of the
                    Mississinewa chiefs. That their feelings in the matter were prompted by their jealousy of the other
                    tribes present, and their claim to the sole disposal of any of the lands along the 
                        Wabash
                    , there can be do doubt. Little Turtle was soon won over, but the younger and more
                    aggressive chiefs of the Miami villages were hostile to him and openly expressed their disapproval
                    of his conduct. The Mississinewa chiefs were also violently opposed  to the pretensions of Winnemac and the Pottawattamies. They claimed the
                    Pottawattamies were new-comers and usurpers and had no right to a voice in the sale of the lands in
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     valley. The Mississinewa chiefs prevailed. On the 24th, the Miamis, "declared
                    their determination not to sell a foot of land, observing that it was time to put a stop to the
                    encroachments of the whites who were eternally purchasing their lands for less than the real value
                    of them. That they had also heard that the governor had no instructions to make the purchase, but
                    was making it upon his own authority to please the white people whom he governed."6 On the 25th, the governor, to overcome their opposition, made another long
                    appeal in open council, declaring that the British alone were responsible for the feeling between
                    the races. On that occasion he gave expression to certain ideas that Tecumseh afterwards eagerly
                    seized upon as an argument in favor of the communistic ownership of all the Indian lands, and as an
                    argument against the sale of 1809. The governor said: "Pottawattamies and Miamis look upon
                    each other as brothers, and at the same time look upon your grandfathers, the Delawares. I love to
                    see you all united. I wish to hear you speak with one voice the dictates of one heart. All must go
                    together. The consent of all is necessary. Delawares and Pottawattamies, I told you that I could do
                    nothing with the Miamis without your consent. Miamis, I now tell you that nothing can be done
                    without your consent. The consent of the whole is necessary."7
            
            This second appeal met with the same reception as the first. On the 26th, the Miamis again declared
                    that they would never consent to the sale of any more of their lands. "That they had been
                    advised by their Father, the British, never to sell another foot." At this moment it was,
                    that the Pottawattamies started a violent altercation, setting up a shout of open defiance in the
                    council house and threatening to resort to force. On repairing to the governor's
                    headquarters, however, and reporting their conduct, Harrison, "blamed them for their
                    rashness and made them promise not to offer the Miamis any further insult."8
            
            On the evening of the same day, the governor held another extended conference with the Miami chiefs,
                    and explained to them that the British were to blame for all their troubles. His remarks were 
                  
                     6 Journal of the Treaty of 1809 (Ms.), now in the state library, pp.
                            12-13.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid, p. 15.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid, p. 16.
               
                     prophetic. He said: "In case of a war with the latter,
                    (the Americans), the English knew that they were unable to defend 
                        Canada
                     with their own force; they were therefore desirous of interposing the Indians between
                    them and danger." The death of Tecumseh in a British uniform was part of the fulfillment of
                    this prediction.
            All the conferences proved in vain. On the 27th, Silver Heels, a Miami chief, was won over and spoke
                    in favor of the treaty, and Harrison succeeded on the 28th in reconciling the Miamis and
                    Pota-watomi, but in full council on the 29th, The Owl, a Miami chief, flatly refused to sell an
                    acre; made a bitter and sarcastic speech and among other things said. "You remember the
                    time when we first took each other by the hand at Greenville. You there told us where the line would
                    be between us. You told us to love our women and children and to take care of our lands. You told us
                    that the Spanish had a great deal of money, the English, and some of your people likewise, but that
                    we should not sell our lands to any of them. In consequence of which last fall we all put our hands
                    upon our hearts and determined not to sell our lands." Harrison answered in a speech of two
                    hours in length, and ended by saying, "that he was tired of waiting and that on the next
                    day he would submit to them the form of a treaty which he wished them to sign and if they would not
                    agree to it he would extinguish the council fire."
            We now come to a circumstance which refutes much that Tecumseh afterwards claimed. In his famous
                    meeting with the governor at 
                        Vincennes
                     in August, 1810, and speaking of the treaty of 1809, he said: "Brother, this
                    land that was sold and the goods that were given for it were only done by a few. The treaty was
                    afterwards brought here, and the Weas were induced to give their consent because of their small
                    numbers. The treaty at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was made through the threats of Winnemac; but in future we are prepared to punish those
                    chiefs who may come forward to propose to sell the land."9 The record
                    of the official proceedings, made at the time, show, however, that immediately upon the close of
                    Harrison's last speech of September 29, that Winnemac arose to reply, but that upon noting
                    that fact, all the Mississinewa Miamis left the council house in contempt. Not only was the Treaty
                    of 1809 concluded by a larger number of Indians than were present at Greenville, 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                  
                     9 John Dillon, History of Indians, p. 443.
               
                     in 1795, but the influence of Winnemac with the Miamis seems to
                    have been of a very negligible quantity.
            The truth is that the final consummation of the pact of 1809 was brought about by the ready tact and
                    hard common sense of Harrison himself. On the morning of the 30th of September, the very day the
                    treaty was signed, it was thought by all the officers and gentlemen present that the mission of the
                    governor was fruitless. No solution of the obstinacy of the Mississinewa chiefs had been discovered.
                    Nothing daunted, Harrison resolved to make one more attempt. He took with him his interpreter,
                    Joseph Barron, a man in whom he had the utmost confidence, and visited the camps of the Miamis. He
                    was received well and told them that he came, not as the representative of the President, but as an
                    old friend with whom they had been many years acquainted. "That he plainly saw that there
                    was something in their hearts which was not consistent with the attachment which they ought to bear
                    to their great father, and that he was afraid that they had listened to bad birds. That he had come
                    to them for the purpose of hearing every cause of complaint against the 
                        United States
                    , and he would not leave them until they had laid open everything that oppressed their
                    hearts. He knew that they could have no solid objection to the proposed treaty, for they were all
                    men of sense and reflection, and all knew that they would be much benefited by it." Calling
                    then, upon the principal chief of the Eel River tribe, who served under him in General 
                        Wayne
                    's army, he demanded to know what his objections to the treaty were. In reply,
                    the chief drew forth a copy of the Treaty of Grouseland and said: "Father, here are your
                    own words. In this paper you have promised that you would consider the Miamis as the owners of the
                    land on the 
                        Wabash
                    . Why then, are you about to purchase it from others?"
            "The Governor assured them that it was not his intention to purchase the land from the other
                    tribes. That he had always said, and was ready now to confess that the land belonged to the Miamis
                    and to no other tribe. That if the other tribes had been invited to the treaty, it was at their
                    particular request (the Miamis). The Potawatomis had indeed taken higher ground than either the
                    governor or the Miamis expected. They claimed an equal right to the lands in question with the
                    Miamis, but what of this? Their claiming it gave them no right, and it was not the intention of the
                    governor to put anything in the treaty which would in the least alter their claim  to their lands on the 
                        Wabash
                    , as established by the Treaty of Grouse-land, unless they chose to satisfy the
                    Delawares with respect to their claim to the country watered by the White river. That even the whole
                    compensation proposed to be given for the lands would be given to the Miamis if they insisted upon
                    it, but that they knew the offense which this would give to the other tribes, and that it was always
                    the governor's intention so to draw the treaty that the Pota-watomis and Delawares would be
                    considered as participating in the advantages of the treaty as allies of the Miamis; not as having
                    any rights to the land."
            The governor's resourcefulness saved the day. There was an instant change of sentiment and a
                    brightening of the dark faces. The claim of the Miamis acknowledged; their savage pride appeased,
                    and their title to the land verified, they were ready for the treaty. Pucan, the chief, informed the
                    governor that he might retire to the fort and that they would shortly wait upon him with good news.
                    The treaty was immediately drafted, and on the same day signed and sealed by the headsmen and chiefs
                    without further dissent.
            Thus was concluded the Treaty of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     of September 30, 1809. The articles were fully considered and signed only after due
                    deliberation of at least a fortnight. The terms were threshed out in open council, before the
                    largest assembly of red men ever engaged in a treaty in the western country up to that time. No
                    undue influence, fraud or coercion was brought to bear—every attempt at violence was
                    promptly checked by the governor—no resort was had to the evil influence of bribes or
                    intoxicants. When agreed upon, it was executed without question.
         
         
         
            Minor Notices
            
                    THE GRAVE OF DAVID ELKINS
                
            IT is not generally known that Rev. David Elkins, who preached the funeral of
                    Nancy Hanks 
                        Lincoln
                    , mother of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , is buried in a little country graveyard a few miles west of 
                        Mitchell
                    , Ind. Such, however, is true history; and peeping out from among the accumulation of
                    weeds and grass today may be seen in that little neglected country graveyard a modest little
                    gravestone, only fifteen inches high, bearing the inscription "David Elkins, 2 S. C. Mil.
                    War 1812."
            The 
                        Lincoln
                     family moved from 
                        Kentucky
                     to 
                        Spencer county
                    , Indiana, in 1816. 
                        Lincoln
                     was then about 8 years old; about a year later the mother died. In those days it was
                    not always possible to have a preacher in the neighborhood at the time of death and the memorial, or
                    funeral sermons were often preached at some convenient time after the death. A few months after his
                    mother's death he wrote to a Baptist preacher by the name of David Elkins, who was a
                    neighbor of the Lincolns in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and asked him to their home to preach his mother's funeral. Some months later
                    Elkins concluded to comply with the request of the lad and in 1818 set out on horseback for the home
                    of the Lincolns, almost 100 miles away.
            Young 
                        Lincoln
                     at the same time started to visit Reverend Elkins with a view to inducing him to come
                    to Indiana and pay the tribute of respect that he felt was due the memory of his mother. Somewhere
                    on the road the two met and Elkins returned with 
                        Lincoln
                     and preached the funeral at the 
                        Lincoln
                     home, which is near 
                        Lincoln City
                     in 
                        Spencer county
                    .
            Elkins, who was a soldier in the war of 1812 moved to a farm about four miles northwest of 
                        Mitchell
                     some time in the forties. He died in 1857 and is buried in the little cemetery above
                    mentioned. It is remembered that Elkins often spoke of the 10-year-old lad who was so devoted to his
                    mother. David Elkins is well remembered by a few people still living here. They are Judge W. H.
                    Edwards, Henry J. Tirey, Thomas Tow and Aunt Phoebe Burton.
            —The 
                            Mitchell
                         Tribune, Oct. 21, 1915.
            
            KIL-SO-QUAH, THE LAST OF THE MIAMIS, 1810-1915
            K
                  
                            IL
                        -SO-QUAH, the grand-daughter of Little Turtle, whom J. P. Dunn in his True Indian Stories characterized as the greatest Indian the world has known, was
                    born in 1810 at Miami Park, one mile west of 
                        Huntington
                    . Her death occurred Sept. 4, 1915, age 105 years. There is sufficient evidence to
                    satisfy historians as to the accuracy of the year of her birth. She was the daughter of Little
                    Turtle's son, Wok-shingah (the Crescent moon) and Nah-wa-kah-mo-kwa (the Snow Woman). The
                    aged princess had translated her own name, which historians spell Kil-so-quah, as "The
                    Setting Sun."
            Her first husband was John Owl, who died soon after the marriage. She then married Antoine Revarre, a
                    French-Canadian, and of the six children born to them two have survived her. Although born west of 
                        Huntington
                    , Ind., Kil-so-quah lived practically all her life in Jackson township, one mile
                    southeast of 
                        Roanoke
                    , Ind. Wok-shin-gah owned a full section of land, which dwindled to the forty acres on
                    which stands the little frame house that was the daughter's home, and where her son Anthony
                    now lives. Anthony's Indian name is Wah-pi-mon-gwah (White Loon) and he is known to the
                    Indians as Little White Loon to distinguish him from his uncle, White Loon, who died at the age of
                    110 years.
            Two children survive. They are the above mentioned Anthony Revarre, who has cared for her for years
                    and proven a true and worthy son in her fading days, and Mary Johnson of 
                         Oklahoma 
                    . The daughter, who left home some thirty years ago, was never heard of and thought to
                    be dead by Kil-so-quah, until about two years ago (1913) through the efforts of Dr. S. Koontz of 
                        Roanoke
                    , who had enlisted the aid of the federal pension department, she was found located in 
                         Oklahoma 
                    , the widow of a wealthy land-owner. The daughter visited with her mother soon after the
                    facts of their relation were established and up to the time of Kil-so-quah's death she
                    divided her time between her mother and her far western home.
            In 1899 the little log cabin that was home to Kil-so-quah and Little White Loon burned to the ground.
                    Many relics and curios of the Miamis and of the family were destroyed, some of them of great value
                    to museums and collectors. Most prized by Kil-so-quah of the property saved were a little shirt and
                    a pair of moccasins which her son had worn nearly sixty years before.
            
            Kil-so-quah was of national prominence in all affairs relating to the American Indians. To make her
                    the most interesting individual of the few survivors of the "royal" families of
                    the vanishing race she had retained her native language and to a large extent the customs of the
                    Indians through years of contact with none of her race but her son Anthony. She learned perhaps
                    fewer than a score of English words, among them "rheumatism" was most frequently
                    used. For years she had been afflicted by rheumatism and her association of the word with her
                    painful ailment made it one of the few she could comprehend. Gout and rheumatism caused the death of
                    her illustrious grandfather on July 14, 1812, at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .
            Until rheumatism made her an invalid, no old settlers' meeting or like event was complete in
                    this county without her presence. Seated on a platform she would smilingly receive the attention of
                    curious crowds, not understanding the cause of her prominence, but being gratified by it. As an
                    invalid, she was as pathetic a figure as history reveals. Practically ostracised by her lack of
                    English, she alternated between an armchair and her bed. Hours, days and weeks she spent sewing
                    diamond-shaped patches into star-shaped figures of great quilts. The writer has often found her
                    sewing away at these when she could hardly see her hand a foot away from her eyes or know that I was
                    in the room except through my conversation with Anthony. My father and I once gave her a fifty-cent
                    piece for one of her patches and she sat for a long time, fondling it in her hands and laughing in a
                    queer chuckle. She had cured my father of snake bite when he was a small boy and on the occasion of
                    one of our visits Anthony asked her if she remembered it. After thinking a little she began to laugh
                    and in her Indian tongue told Anthony she remembered well and even so distinctly as to tell whose
                    son my father was.
            During the last part of her life even the solace of work was taken from her by her near total failing
                    of vision. All this she accepted, stolidly, uncomplainingly. Her own remark, translated by an
                    interpreter, tells of her plight more clearly than all that has been written:
            "When I am busy I think of my work; when I am idle I think how poor and alone I
                    am."
            None of the stimulating excitement and romance with which Cooper surrounded Uncas and his father in
                        The Last of the Mohicans relieved her uneventful life. Last of the pure
                    blooded  Miamis and descended of a long line of chieftains, she
                    stoically dragged out the years in which a remarkable vitality kept life in her body.
            Kil-so-quah held to the customs of her tribe and lived outdoors in her wigwam during the warm months
                    until about ten years ago, when the tent fell into pieces from wear. She delighted in relating her
                    early adventures and especially one soon after her marriage. Upon hearing the hounds she picked up a
                    small hatchet and made her way to where the dogs had a large deer at bay, and from behind a tree she
                    killed the deer with a blow of the hatchet. She said that the hunters toted the game away without
                    offering her a mess of venison.
            She had also presented a great many with curios, among which is a miniature canoe she made for Dr.
                    Koontz in 1910 in appreciation of tobacco he had taken her.
            About six years ago Dr. Koontz, William Koontz, James Barbour and Dr. Reed took up the bones of
                    Kil-so-quah's husband and Chief Coesse, who were buried about sixty-three years ago. The
                    bones of the former were preserved and kept at the office of Dr. Koontz and were interred with the
                    remains of Kil-so-quah upon her summons to the happy hunting grounds.
            The last public meeting Kil-so-quah attended in 
                        Roanoke
                     was in 1910 on her one hundredth birthday anniversary, although as late as last year
                    (1914) she attended the Old Settlers' Meeting at 
                        Columbia City
                    . Last fall a reunion was held at the old homestead of all the Indians in the northern
                    part of the State and about forty-five were present. A war dance was enjoyed and music furnished by
                    Kil-so-quah with an old pan and stick.
            Her death occurred Saturday morning at 3 o'clock, September 4, 1915. Her body was held in
                    state at the 
                        Roanoke
                     Catholic Church for one week when she was buried in the I. O. O. F. cemetery, the order
                    of Red Men acting as pall-bearers. With the passing of Kil-so-quah to the happy hunting grounds
                    there was lost the last of the full-blooded Miamis and perhaps the oldest resident of the State of
                    Indiana. A subscription is being raised to purchase a historical monument to mark the place of
                        burial.—ANSEL A. RICHARDS, '16,
                    Indiana University.
            
            OUIATENON
            (The following note was furnished Hon. A. O. Reser, State Senator, from 
                        Tippecanoe county
                    ) :
            
               THE following was copied by Mr. Robert Hatcher, of 
                        Lafayette
                    , from a journal of a Jesuit Priest, in the French archives at 
                        Paris
                    : 
                        "Ft. Ouiatenon is situated about 15 miles below Keth Tippekenunck, an old Indian
                            village where the 
                                Tippecanoe
                             flows into the Ouabache. It is situated on the north bank of the River
                            Ouabache, about seventy yards from the margin thereof, at the foot of the rapids, and at the
                            mouth of 'La riviere du bois rouge.' "
                    
            
            With this description it has been an easy matter to locate the site of Ouiatenon, on a knoll, four
                    miles below 
                        Lafayette
                    . Numerous relics have been dug out of this knoll. Among them are Jesuit crosses, pieces
                    of flint, an old musket, an old iron door, and a canoe carved out of Wa-hoo wood, with a metal tip.
                    Buttons, pieces of cloth, flint, a gun lock, a crucifix and silver cross, found at a point near the
                    knoll but further back from the river, indicate a Jesuit burial ground and it is known that at old
                    Ft. Ouiatenon both the French and the Indians used a part of the elevation upon which it was
                    situated for a burial ground.
            Ouiatenon was the first fort established on the 
                        Wabash
                     river. It was built in the year 1719 or 1720, ostensibly to counteract the influence of
                    the English, and to keep the Indians in their power. After the battle of Quebec a treaty was made in
                    which it was agreed that 
                        France
                     should withdraw her garrisons from the posts on the 
                        Mississippi
                     and its tributaries. Ouiatenon then ceased to be a French fort and passed into the
                    hands of the English.
            
               FRANK B. POSEY
            
            
               FRANK B. POSEY, lawyer, former congressman and for the last
                    twenty-five years one of the most prominent Republicans in the First District, died at his home at 
                        Rockport
                    , Ind., Sunday afternoon, Oct. 31.
            Mr. Posey was born at 
                        Petersburg
                    , Ind., sixty-seven years ago, being the son of one of the pioneers of 
                        Pike county
                    . He was a lineal descendant of Thomas Posey, who was the first territorial governor of
                    Indiana. The Posey family for years has been one of the most prominent and best known in 
                        Pike county
                    .
            
            Mr. Posey was educated in the 
                        Petersburg
                     public schools and afterwards attended DePauw University at 
                        Greencastle
                    , Ind., and the State University at 
                        Bloomington
                    , Ind. He studied law and opened an office at 
                        Petersburg
                    . From the start he was successful and during his long residence at 
                        Petersburg
                     he figured in some of the most noted civil and criminal cases in the 
                        Pike county
                     circuit court. His ability as an orator brought him a reputation both as a lawyer and a
                    political speaker.
            More than twenty years ago Mr. Posey moved to 
                        Evansville
                    , where he formed a law partnership with Judge Hamilton A. Mattison. Later DeWitt Q.
                    Chappell was taken into the firm, and the firm was known as Posey, Mattison & Chappell.
                    Later Judge Mattison retired from the firm. When Mr. Posey was appointed surveyor of the port of 
                        Evansville
                    , about ten years ago, he gave up the law practice and devoted all his time to the
                    office. He retired from the surveyor of port's office about two years ago and soon after
                    his retirement he moved to 
                        Rockport
                    , where he formed a partnership with Fred A. Heuring, and his son John, the firm being
                    known as Posey, Heuring & Posey.
            Few Republicans in southern Indiana were better known than Colonel Posey. In 1888 he was nominated by
                    his party for Congress in the First District and went down in defeat, his opponent that year having
                    been Judge William F. Parrett, of 
                        Evansville
                    . In that year General Alvin P. Hovey, who was serving in Congress, was elected governor
                    of the State. This left a vacancy in Congress when General Hovey became governor in January, 1899,
                    and a special election was called.
            Mr. Posey and Judge Parrett were the opposing candidates in the special election and Mr. Posey was
                    elected by about 1,300 majority. In 1910 Mr. Posey was again the nominee of his party for Congress
                    and was defeated by John W. Boehne, of 
                        Evansville
                    . This was the last race for office he ever made.
            When Albert J. Beveridge was first elected to the 
                        United States
                     Senate, in 1897, Colonel Posey was a candidate before the Republican caucus and was
                    voted on for several ballots. In 1900 he sought the Republican nomination for governor, and received
                    a large vote from the southern and central parts of the State. W. T. Durbin, of Anderson, finally
                    won the nomination.
            Mr. Posey for many years was vice-president from Indiana in the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley Improvement Association, which organization has  as its object the improvement of the 
                        Ohio
                     river with a movable system of locks and dams.
            When he moved to 
                        Rockport
                     two years ago, Mr. Posey selected one of the highest spots on the
                    "bluff," where he might get a good look of the 
                        Ohio
                     river, day after day and month after month. He loved the river, and he longed to see
                    the time when steamboats would ply the streams in large numbers as of old, and this he believed
                    would come with the improvement of the river.
            When Mr. Posey went to Congress in January, 1899, to fill out the unexpired term of General Hovey, he
                    was the central figure in what proved to be a noted contest. In the election in the fall of 1888 he
                    had been defeated by Judge Parrett by less than thirty votes.
            
               JOHN H. BAKER
            
            
               JOHN H. BAKER, of 
                        Goshen
                    , retired judge of the 
                        United States
                     district court for Indiana, died at his home here Oct. 21. He was born in 
                        Monroe county
                        New York
                    , February 28, 1832. When a baby his parents moved to what is now 
                        Fulton county
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , but which was then on the frontier. When a boy he helped his father on a farm. He was
                    educated in the primitive schools of the pioneer days and then became a school teacher and out of
                    his pay saved sufficient money to enable him, at the age of twenty-one, to take a course of two
                    years' study in the 
                        Ohio
                     Wesleyan University at 
                        Delaware
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . When this preparation was complete he began the study of law at 
                        Adrian
                    , Mich., and passing an examination before the Supreme Court of 
                        Michigan
                    , was admitted to the bar in 1857. In that year he came to 
                        Goshen
                     and opened a law office.
            In the troublous days before the civil war he joined the new born Republican party and in 1862 was
                    nominated and elected as a member of the State senate. He held a notary public's
                    commission, however, and by the construction of the Democratic majority in the senate a notary
                    public was declared the incumbent of a lucrative office and Senator Baker was accordingly ousted
                    from the body. After a brief legislative experience he returned to 
                        Goshen
                     to practice law.
            In 1872 he aspired to the Republican nomination for congressman from the Thirteenth District, but
                    through a combination on the part of three opposing candidates, he was defeated in the convention.
                    Two years later he was successful in becoming the nominee.  At
                    the election he won by a small margin, the Democrats sweeping the State. He was renominated in 1876
                    and was re-elected by more than 2,000 majority, and in 1878 he was elected a third time with an
                    increased majority. At the completion of his third term he declined another nomination and returned
                    to 
                        Goshen
                     to resume his law practice.
            When James A. Garfield became President he tendered Mr. Baker the place of second assistant
                    postmaster-general, an office for which he was peculiarly well fitted because of his experience
                    while in Congress in investigating the "star route" contracts. However, he
                    declined to give up the law for the appointment.
            It was in 1892 that Judge William A. Woods, of 
                        Goshen
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was promoted to the 
                        United States
                     circuit bench from the 
                        United States
                     district court, and to fill the vacancy President Harrison appointed Mr. Baker, who
                    assumed his duties March 29, 1892, and served with distinction until 1902, when he retired under the
                    age limit provision.
            At the time President Harrison appointed him, the salary was $5,000 a year. Subsequently
                    it was increased to $6,000 a year, which amount Judge Baker drew up to the time of his
                    death, the law providing that full salary shall continue in force following retirement under the age
                    limit, the appointment having been for life.
            In early manhood Mr. Baker married Miss Harriet E. DeFrees, daughter of Joseph H. DeFrees, of 
                        Goshen
                    . Judge Francis E. Baker is the only child.
            
               SIDNEY K. GANIARD
            
            
               SIDNEY K. GANIARD, former state senator from 
                        Lagrange
                     and Noble counties, died of Bright's disease November 3, after an illness of
                    several months.
            Mr. Ganiard was born on a farm near Howe, 
                        Lagrange county
                    , September 22, 1870. He was graduated from the 
                        Lima
                     high school in 1890, after which he taught in the country schools for a few years. Then
                    he entered Indiana University where he completed a literary and law course. He was principal of the 
                        Lima
                     high school for four years and of the high school of Monroeville, Ind., for two years.
                    Then he quit teaching and took up the practice of law in 
                        Lagrange
                    .
            In 1904 Mr. Ganiard was elected to the state senate to represent the Noble-
                        Lagrange
                     District, and was a conspicuous member of the 
                    Republican majority in the sessions of 1905 and 1907. He was author of the "blind
                    tiger" law and of the present banking law of the State. He was elected prosecuting attorney
                    for the Thirty-fourth Judicial Circuit, comprising the counties of 
                        Lagrange
                     and 
                        Elkhart
                    , in 1910.
            
               JAMES E. CASKEY
            
            
               THE owner and editor of the 
                        Greensburg
                    
                    News, James E. Caskey, died at his home in 
                        Greensburg
                    , October 24. He was born May 12, 1853, at Richland, 
                        Rush county
                    . He has lived in 
                        Greensburg
                     since he was 14 years old. After serving as township trustee, and postmaster he
                    purchased the News, December 1, 1902. He is best known as the editor of the News, being favorably known throughout the State.
            
               ROY L. SHATTUCK
            
            
               ROY L. SHATTUCK died at his home in 
                         Brazil 
                    , August 15, 1915. He was born in 
                         Brazil 
                     in 1871, being 44 years old at the time of his death. He was a lawyer by profession. He
                    served as mayor of 
                         Brazil 
                     from 1903 to 1909. In 1912 he was defeated for the Republican nomination for
                    congressman. In 1914 he was nominated but defeated at the polls.
            
               RICHARD M. MILBURN
            
            
               MR. MILBURN was born on a farm in 
                        Dubois county
                    , September 24, 1865. His parents went to 
                        Dubois county
                     from 
                        Kentucky
                     many years ago. He was the eldest of three children, the other two being James S.
                    Milburn, now living at East 
                        St. Louis
                    , and Mrs. Hattie J. Beck, of 
                        Chicago
                    . Mr. Milburn attended the public schools of 
                        Dubois county
                     until he was 16 years old, and then studied two years at the State Normal School. Later
                    he was graduated from the scientific course at the Southern Indiana Normal College, at 
                        Mitchell
                    ; the law department of 
                        Cumberland
                     University, 
                        Lebanon
                    , Tenn., and the literary department of Indiana University. He was superintendent of the
                    public schools of 
                        Jasper
                     in 1887, and from that time he was engaged in the practice of law at 
                        Jasper
                    , until he came to this city to assume office as attorney-general, with the exception of
                    two years that he spent as associate professor of law at Indiana University. He was elected state
                    senator from Dubois and 
                    
                        Daviess
                     counties, and served in the legislative sessions of 1903 and 1905.
            He was a member of the Trinity Presbyterian Church at 
                        Jasper
                    , in which he taught the Bible class for many years. He was also a member of the Masons,
                    the Knights of Pythias and the Elks.
            Mr. Milburn was married to Miss Lizzie Fowler, in 
                        Dubois county
                    , in 1887, and to them five children were born, all of whom together with the widow,
                    survive.
            He was prominently connected with the Democratic party of the State. He was nominated and elected
                    attorney-general by the Democrats at the last election. He had served less than one year at the time
                    of his death at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , November 9, 1915.
            
                    MEETING OF HISTORY TEACHERS
                
            
               THE HISTORY SECTION of the State Teachers' Association held meetings at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the forenoons of October 28 and 29. At the first session the papers were grouped
                    around the present condition of Europe. Prof. L. H. Gipson, of 
                        Wabash
                    , read a paper on "The Underlying Causes for the Triple Alliance and the Triple
                    Entente." Howard V. Hornung, of the 
                        Clinton
                     High School, read a paper on "History and International
                    Relationships." P. P. Claxton, 
                        United States
                     Commissioner of Education, discussed the topic, "Teaching History in
                    Preparation for Citizenship." L. J. Bailey, Librarian of Gary, read a paper on
                    "The Founding of Gary."
            At the second session Prof. W. O. Lynch read a paper on "Indiana in the Middle
                    Period." Logan Esarey followed with a paper on "Sources of Indiana
                    History," and Prof. James A. Wood-burn closed this part of the program with an explanation
                    of the State Historical Commission and its plans for the centennial celebration. The latter paper is
                    given in full elsewhere in this magazine. Others will perhaps appear later. Prof. C. B. Coleman
                    presided over the meeting.
            
                    NOTICE
                
            
               MANY editors have written concerning the material in this magazine and its use by
                    them. The magazine is pleased to have any exchange use any article or parts of
                    articles, only noting that it is copyrighted. It is copyrighted merely to protect it against purely
                    commercial publishers.
            
            A CORRECTION
            
            
               IN the article on "
                        Vevay
                     and 
                        Switzerland county
                    ," that appeared in the September issue of this Magazine, the
                    author made the mistake of saying that Edward Eggleston was not born in 
                        Vevay
                    , but a few miles below town. Since this was in print she has been informed by the
                    sister of Mr. Eggleston that he really did first see the light in 
                        Vevay
                    .
            Another mistake, but in this instance a typographical one, was that the "Julia L.
                    Dumont" Club was organized in 1866. This is claiming too much for our literary culture. It
                    was really founded in 1886, which makes it still one of the oldest existing women's clubs
                    in the State.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            
               History of the Underground Railroad as It Was Conducted by the Anti-Slavery
                    League. By COL. WILLIAM M. COCKRUM. J. W. Cockrum
                    Printing Company, 
                        Oakland City
                    . 328 pp.
            
               COLONEL COCKRUM is the senior member of one of the most distinguished pioneer
                    families of the State. He has spent his life up to the present on the old homestead. He and his
                    father have had a true appreciation of historic records, as a consequence of which he is in
                    possession of a large amount of data concerning the early history of the southwest corner of the
                    State. What he publishes may and does have varying significance and value but it is the really
                    historical matter. The present volume is of greater significance and of wider interest than the
                    author's Pioneer History of Indiana. It deals directly with a phase of
                    the slavery struggle of which not enough is known. It supplements and in some important respects
                    goes beyond Coffin's Reminiscences. The result of Mr. Coffin's
                    book, William Still's Records, and the later systematic treatise by
                    Professor Siebert on The Underground Railroad has been a definite public opinion
                    that practically the only "underground" activity was carried on through western 
                        Ohio
                     and eastern Indiana. There has been some demur to this conclusion by writers acquainted
                    with the lower 
                        Ohio
                     river border of Indiana, but no satisfactory evidence could be uncovered. The volume of
                    Colonel Cockrum furnishes in a large degree this evidence. The reviewer has not had the opportunity
                    of examining the documents on which Colonel Cockrum's history is based but it bears ample
                    evidence on its face of being a trustworthy story.
            Colonel Cockrum has a pleasing way of expressing himself and tells a good story. The subject matter
                    is intensely interesting which together with the simple and straightforward style makes a story that
                    will hold any intelligent reader. It is extremely regrettable in this connection that a large number
                    of simple grammatical errors have been allowed to escape the proof reader. In the eyes of many
                    readers these minor defects will be permitted to mar the general excellence of the volume. Taken as
                    a whole it is a most valuable contribution to our State history. It is hoped the author will not
                    permit it to be the last of his contributions.
            L. E.
         
         
         
            
               The Critical Period 1763‐1765. Edited by CLARENCE
                        WALWORTH ALVORD, University of 
                        Illinois
                    , and CLARENCE EDWIN CARTER, Miami University. Volume X of 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Historical Collections Series. VII+597 pp.
            
               THIS book of sources is the first volume of the British series covering the period
                    of 
                        Illinois
                     history from 1763-1778. It presents in accessible form documents scattered from the 
                        Mississippi
                     to 
                        London
                    , and except in cases where the originals were not to be found, all were copied directly
                    or verified from the originals. The editor's introduction to the volume covers the period
                    of 1763-1765 in excellent manner. The Sir William Johnson letters are of especial value since the
                    loss of the Johnson manuscripts in the 
                        Albany
                     fire. The documents are grouped under chapter headings, which serves to break the
                    monotony often found with mere chronological arrangement. The eleven chapters deal with The
                    Organization of the Western Territory, March to December, 1763; Banishment of the Jesuits; Proposed
                    Colony of Charlotina; The Journal of M. Dabbadie, 1763-1764; Major Loftus' Attempts to
                    Reach the 
                        Illinois
                    , December 5, 1763, to April 9, 1764; Accounts from the 
                        Illinois
                    , April 4, 1764, to June 29, 1764; The Regulation of Indian Affairs, July 10, 1764, to
                    November 9, 1764; Letters About the Indians, October 8, 1764, to November 9, 1764; Close of the
                    Indian War, November 9, 1764, to January 16, 1765; British Messengers are Sent to the 
                        Illinois
                     Country, January 13, 1765, to February 24, 1765; The First British Agents Reach the 
                        Illinois
                     Country, February 25, 1765, to July, 1765. The appendix contains a number of letters
                    discovered too late to be printed in the proper places. The volume contains photogravures of Sir
                    William Johnson, and General Gage, and some photographs of early trade licenses, etc. A complete
                    index makes the volume very usable.
            R. C. BULEY.
            
         
         
            
               County Archives of 
                            Illinois
                        . By THEODORE CALVIN PEASE, University of 
                        Illinois
                    . In 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Historical Collections, Vol. XII, Bibliographical Series Vol. III. Published
                    by Trustees of 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library. 
                  Springfield,
                            Illinois
               . pp. 730. 1915.
            
               IT is difficult to appreciate the amount of time and labor which a compilation of
                    this sort entails. Convinced that the sources for the history of the State would be incomplete
                    without a detailed account  of the materials of interest to the
                    social scientist found in the various county courthouses of the State of 
                        Illinois
                    , Mr. Pease set himself to this task.
            The records of each of the 102 counties have been systematically and painstakingly ransacked. The
                    exact location of every record, report and document was noted by the investigator. As a result one
                    has only to turn to the pages of this Manual to ascertain the exact spot where the records of any
                    county are kept.
            In each county the records are arranged in the following order: County Clerk, Probate Clerk, Circuit
                    Clerk, and Recorder, with the various subdivisions under each. By a system of abbreviations
                    (explained in the Introduction) the exact location of all records is given.
            A very brief sketch of the courthouse, the condition of the records, and frequently a criticism of
                    the method of record-keeping employed in the county, precedes the outline of the materials, in each
                    case.
            The counties are given in alphabetical order, save 
                        Cook county
                    , which is placed first because of its size. In examining the various county records two
                    ends were constantly kept in view; the first was to appraise the historical value of the records and
                    to list their contents for the benefit of future research; the second was to determine whether the
                    records of the past were adequately protected from fire, damp and decay, and whether the records of
                    the present are made by methods which insure both economy of space and permanence.
            More than a hundred pages at the outset are devoted to the history of the County Archives of 
                        Illinois
                    . In this history the editor traces the rise of the various record officers as well as
                    the methods employed for record preservation and filing in the past. The author also sets forth some
                    valuable advice upon archive keeping and gives a short sketch of the conditions of Archive Science
                    in the 
                        United States
                    . So far, effective application of archive methods to records of local jurisdiction has
                    been confined to New 
                        England
                    . A few years ago legislatures of 
                         Rhode Island 
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                     and 
                        Connecticut
                     provided for commissioners of public records with general supervision over county and
                    town records.
            The author discovered that out of ninety-one county courthouses where records were kept, forty-four
                    were not fireproof, ten were  doubtful. The recommendations and
                    suggestions to county clerks and record keepers by a man who has worked through the great mass of 
                        Illinois county
                     records, should be given due consideration. The author strongly urges the
                    centralization of certain kinds of county records, as election returns. Often they are destroyed a
                    few months after election. It is the opinion of the author that the county records can not be too
                    highly estimated as a source of State and local history. The county records are of invaluable aid to
                    a writer desiring to show the gradual progress of his State—how the present State came
                    into being. These records bring one closer to the actual life of early 
                        Illinois
                    . They help one into the spirit of the period. In the words of the author:
                    "These records are the very incarnation of the State's past." Such a work
                    upon the county archives of Indiana would aid greatly the work of those who are endeavoring to work
                    out the history of Indiana.
            R. BLANK.
            
         
         
            
               The Pioneers of 
                            Morgan County
                        : Memoirs of Noah J. Major. Edited by LOGAN ESAREY, Ph.D. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1915. 285 p.
            
               THE MEMOIRS of Noah J. Major constitute the fifth number of volume five of the
                    Indiana Historical Society Publications. These Memoirs were written between the
                    years 1900 and 1908. Mr. Major was born in 1823 and moved to 
                        Morgan county
                    , then on the very frontier of the State, in 1832. From that date until 1911 the author
                    lived near 
                        Martinsville
                    , a pioneer who progressed with the country which he helped develop. Towards the end of
                    a life which spanned the period in which central Indiana grew from an Indian hunting ground to a
                    prosperous part of a modern State, Mr. Major looked back and gave us one of the best pictures of our
                    pioneer life and institutions in existence. Occasionally his memory, which was unimpaired by time,
                    was aided by visits to the State Library and reference to records. The first chapter deals with the
                    First Settlers. The second chapter, dealing with the Home Life of the Pioneers is of especial
                    interest. Courtship, Marriage, Housekeeping, Sickness, Hunting, etc., are told of in a most readable
                    style made all the more vivid by a liberal use of the vernacular expressions of the day, and
                    comparisons with modern methods. The hunting stories would provide an abundance of material for
                    supplementary reading for school children. Chapters three and four consist of a discussion of
                    Religion, Schools, Politics, Elections, and  Transportation. A
                    series of short biographies of 
                        Morgan county
                     legislators make up the last chapter.
            Mr. Major was aided in his work by his wife who did the writing, or as she styled it, the
                    "copying." Few counties are as fortunate as Morgan in having such an account of
                    their pioneers.
            R. C. BULEY.
            
         
         
            
               Ancestral History. Compiled by I. BRASHEARS, a Retired Member
                    of the Northwest 
                        Iowa
                     Conference of M. E. Church. 21 pp., 1915.
            
               THIS pamphlet contains brief sketches of two of the oldest families of the State
                    of Indiana—the Hinmans and Brashears. Capt. Asahel Hinman was born in 
                        Connecticut
                     in 1742 of 
                        Puritan
                     parentage. He served in the Colonial Militia during the French and Indian War. In the
                    Revolutionary War he was in continuous service until the close of the war. He fought with Arnold at
                    Quebec, 1775, at Long Island, and with 
                        Washington
                     at Valley Forge. He was a wealthy man for those times and spent most of his money for
                    army supplies. The close of the war found him poverty stricken. The legislature of 
                        New Jersey
                     failed to reimburse him as justice demanded. In 1790, with his wife and three children
                    he migrated to the wilds of 
                        Kentucky
                     to start life anew. After living more than a dozen years on land cleared and tended by
                    himself, Captain Hinman and his family were forced to give up their hard-earned home, thanks to the
                    poor system of private surveys and inaccurate plotting employed in 
                        Kentucky
                    . About 1816 he moved to 
                        Warrick county
                    , Indiana, dying there in 1825. He had five children, two sons and three daughters; the
                    author, himself, is a grandson of Captain Hinman.
            Samuel Brashears, the paternal grandfather of the author, was also prominent in early Indiana
                    history. He was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1759. He became a member of one of Daniel 
                        Boone
                    's exploring parties in the wilds of 
                        Kentucky
                    . Some years later he settled in 
                        Bullitt county
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    . He moved to 
                        Warrick county
                    , Indiana, in 1816, settling a mile or so east of Boonville. He had six sons and a
                    daughter. Ephraim Brashears, the father of the author of this ancestral history, was born in 
                        Bullitt county
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , November 5, 1795. He died at Boonville, 1876. He was a man of more education than the
                    average pioneer. He was sheriff of 
                        Warrick county
                     back in the days when the sheriff was tax 
                    collector and went on horseback from house to house for that purpose. He married Miss Anna Harris
                    Hinman, daughter of Capt. Asahel Hinman.
            The history of the struggles with the wilderness, and the incidents narrated in the history of the
                    Hinman and Brashears family are typical of the early Indiana pioneer life. We owe an enormous debt
                    of gratitude to the pioneer families who prepared the way for present day civilization in Indiana.
            The author himself, Ira Brashears, in a long life of 82 years, has taken no small part in the pioneer
                    work of the nation, as a farmer, soldier and minister of the Gospel.
            We wonder if Capt. Richard Brashears, who was left in command of 
                        Vincennes
                     (then Ft. Sackville) by George Rogers Clark, 1779, belonged to this family of Brashears
                    so active in our early State History.
            R. BLANK.
            
         
         
            
               THE HISTORICAL COMMISSION reports progress in its work of preparing for the
                    Centennial. Mr. Langdon, the pageant master, is studying the State history and acquainting himself
                    with the situation. County agents are pushing the work in most of the counties. Miss Dye is editing
                    a story page in the Sunday Star in order to arouse interest among and furnish
                    material to the school teachers.
            
               The Home and School Visitor for the current year is running some interesting
                    historical articles. Benjamin S. Parker tells "The Story of an Old
                    Highway"—a description of the National Road. Professor Bogardus of the State
                    Normal is contributing a series of articles on the States involved in the European War. Dr. Esarey
                    of Indiana University is furnishing a series of articles on different phases of Indiana History.
            
               The 
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review for October, 1915, contains an excellent article on the
                    "Fathers of the State," by Floyd C. Shoemaker. It is a brief history of the men
                    who constituted the first constitutional convention of that State. Several of these men attained
                    some fame in Indiana before going to 
                        Missouri
                    . Henry Dodge was born at 
                        Vincennes
                    , October 12, 1782. John Rice Jones was attorney-general of Indiana Territory, 1805, and
                    gave us our first code in 1807. Alexander Buckner practiced law in Indiana before he went to 
                        Missouri
                    . He also helped organize the Masonic  Grand Lodge
                    of this State. John Scott was also well known in Indiana Territorial History. It is one of the most
                    suggestive articles that has appeared in the magazines lately.
            
               THE October number of the Catholic Historical Review contains
                    Bishop Flaget's Report of the Diocese of 
                        Bardstown
                     to Pius VII, April 10, 1815. It is given both in the original Latin and in translation.
                    The 
                        Bardstown
                     Diocese included Indiana at that time. Bishop Flaget had been the missionary at St.
                    Francis Xavier at 
                        Vincennes
                    , 1793-1795, and his report is therefore of the greater interest. This paper will
                    supplement to some extent the Life of Bishop Flaget, by Spalding.
            
               The Life and Military Services of Brevet-Major General Robert S. Foster, is the
                    title of Number 6, of Volume V of the Indiana Historical Society Publications. The
                    pamphlet was prepared by Charles W. Smith. It is the story of a Hoosier soldier who entered the
                    Union army at the outbreak of the war as a captain in the Eleventh Infantry and came out a
                    brevet-major general. The Eleventh Indiana served in the East for a short time under Lew Wallace.
                    General Foster then became an officer of the Thirteenth. He commanded the division which supported
                    Sheridan's cavalry as it took the position in front of Lee's army at 
                        Appomattox
                    , and had the honor of being the last body of troops to face the army of 
                        Virginia
                     before it surrendered. By typographical error the name in the half-title is
                    "Robert S. Porter."
            
               The Indiana Forum, a weekly Democratic newspaper, made its appearance at 
                        Indianapolis
                     October 10. It is published on Sunday morning. It has a good appearance and a good code
                    of principles. Horace H. Herr, formerly editor of the Times, is editor and
                    publisher. It represents what it terms the Progressive element of the Democratic party. On its front
                    page are pictures of Wilson, Marshall, Kern and Bryan.
            
               The 
                            Tennessee
                         Historical Magazine for September has two valuable contributions to western
                    history. The first is a discussion of the "Old Nachez Trace," by Park Marshall.
                    The second is the concluding selections of the "
                        Winchester
                     Papers." This is the third number of the magazine and if it continues as it
                    has begun it will be a very acceptable addition to the family of State historical  magazines. There is no field in the West which surpasses that of 
                        Tennessee
                     in historical interest.
            
               The 
                            Iowa
                         Journal of History and Politics for October has a rather unique article, a
                    History of the Last 
                        Iowa
                     General Assembly. The article is by Prof. F. E. Horack of the Political Science
                    Department of 
                        Iowa
                     State University. While time may perhaps alter the perspective of such history there
                    can be no doubt of the value of such a calm, dispassionate, sympathetic study of a State assembly.
                    It should help to bridge the gulf between our assemblies and what we think they ought to be.
            
               ROBERT J. LEONARD, Professor of Vocational Education in Indiana
                    University, has issued an exhaustive report on the city of 
                        Hammond
                     as a basis for a program of elementary industrial and vocational education. As a survey
                    of the city the book has considerable historical importance. It is published by the school board of 
                        Hammond
                    . C. M. McDaniel is superintendent.
            Two new teachers have been added to the Department of History at DePauw this year. Miss Katharine S.
                    Alvord, A. M., of Cornell, becomes assistant professor, and George M. Stephenson, Ph. D., of 
                        Harvard
                    , instructor. Professor W. W. Sweet is head of the department.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
